Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3063-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
May 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The
rate used in the President's and Staff Appraisal Reports, which appro-
ximates the current rate, is:
US$l          -   D  0.400
Dl            -   US$2.50
Dl million    =   US$2.5 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CNSS    - Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale (National Social Security
Fund)
CNI     - Centre National d'Informatique (National Computer Center)
CRFP    - Centre de Recherches et de Formation Pedagogique pour le Personnel
Sanitaire (Health Research and Training Center)
INE     - Institut National de l'Enfance (National Institute of Child Health)
INNTA   - Institut National de Nutrition et de Technologie Alimentaire
(National Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology)
IUD     - Intra-Uterine Device
MCH     - Mother and Child Health
MIS     - Management Information System
MOPH    - Ministry of Public Health
MWRA    - Married Women of Reproductive Age
ONPFP   - Office National de la Population et du Planning Familial
(National Office of Population and Family Planning)
PCU     - Project Coordination Unit
UNFPA   - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID   - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Tunisia
Amount:             US$12.5 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
9.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The project would support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990,
through the provision of better and more cost-effective
health, family planning and nutrition services to lower
income groups in eight selected governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management
capacity, improve and expand the basic health care
delivery system and health education programs, upgrade
the training system, and train project personnel. The
project would include: (a) the provision of equipment
and supporting staff and services to the Ministry of
Public Health; (b) the construction and/or remodelling,
equipping and furnishing of about 140 health posts, 325
dispensaries, 90 staff houses, two regional health
education centers, 6 paramedical schools, and 8 vehicle
maintenance workshops; (c) additional equipment for 21
district hospitals; (d) the provision of appropriate
transportation facilities; and (e) technical assistance
in support of all project components.
Benefits and
Risks:            The project would make a significant contribution to
meeting the basic health needs of about 2.25 million
people in under-priviledged areas. It would support the
Government policy of improving health and nutrition con-
ditions while slowing down the population growth rate.
Risks are related to the management of the project's
large set of activities and programs, to possible
resistance to the shift to preventive care and to the
difficulty of recruiting health personnel to serve in
rural areas. However, the Government's commitment to
the integrated health policy, the broad national support
for the project, the substantial positive results
already achieved through pilot projects in similar
areas, and a well planned program of technical
assistance are expected to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                                US$ Million
Local*  Foreign   Total
Management                                           2.0       1.2       3.2
Strengthening Basic Health Care
infratructure                                  6.9       5.0       11.9
service delivery                               9.4       1.4       10.8
Health and population communications                 0.3       0.8       1.1
Training                                             1.7       0.4       2.1
Project administration                               0.3       0.2       0.5
Subtotal (base costs)                               20.6       9.0      29.6
Physical contingencies                               1.3       0.7       2.0
Price contingencies                                  6.6       2.8       9.4
Subtotal (contingencies)                             7.9       3.5      11.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      28.5*      12.5      41.0
Financing Plan
IBRD                                       -       12.5      12.5
Government                              28.5         -       28.5
Total                                28.5      12.5       41.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
…--------…US$ Million----------
Annual                            0.9     2.9    4.1    2.7      1.9
Cumulative                        0.9    3.8    7.9   10.6   12.5
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report;            "Tunisia:  Health and Population Project"
(No. 3204-TUN, dated May 6, 1981).
* Including taxes and duties, estimated at $2.8 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$12.5 million to the Republic of Tunisia, to
help finance the cost of a Health and Population Project. The loan would
have terms of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate
of 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects
of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was issued on November 16, 1978. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in June 1980 and this part reflects its findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I; present economic projections
are provisional and strongly depend on the outcome of an ongoing study on
the future of domestic oil production and energy demand and on the economic
policies that will be adopted for the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
3.       Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources.  Much of
it is arid or semi-arid. The limited areas where dry-land agriculture is
possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations in rainfall. The
adverse effects of climatic fluctuations are alleviated by expanding irri-
gation. Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum,
and natural gas; however, the known exploitable reserves of oil and gas are
small, and phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality. There is
considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been made to develop it
rapidly over the last decade.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive
effort towards development of its human resources, paying special attention
to education and training as basic prerequisites for modernization. As a
result, the adult literacy rate has increased from under 15 percent at the
time of independence to 55 percent by 1980; the health and nutrition status
of the population improved, average calorie supply per capita increased
from about 80 to 112 percent of requirements, and life expectancy at birth
increased from about 48 years in 1960 to 57 years in 1978.
1/  Part I is substantially unchanged from that in President's Report No.
P-2998-TUN of March 26, 1981 for a Small Scale Industry Development
Project.



-2-
5.       Tunisia's economy depends on rural activities to provide employ-
ment, but on petroleum and phosphate exports to provide iforeign exchange
earnings. Manufacturing is rapidly becoming important in both respects.
The relative sectoral composition of GDP shows a diversitied economic
structure. From the employment point of view (the country's most pressing
social problem), Tunisia remains an agricultural economy, with the rural
sector providing work for about one out of every three Tunisians in the
labor force. The direct employment effects of petroleum extraction,
phosphate mining and tourism are small, although these sectors make a vital
contribution to GDP, public revenues, savings and exports. From the export
point of view, Tunisia is largely a petroleum and mining economy with those
two activities providing 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange
earnings; all manufacturing activities and tourism together provide another
43 percent.
The Main Economic bectors in 1979
(in percent)
GDP /1    Employment   Exports /2
Agriculture                                    16.2           35.0          6.8
Energy/Mining                                  12.1            1.8         37.1
Manufacturing                                  12.1           21.8         22.5
Tourism                                         4.8            1.5         20.2
Construction and Services                      41.2           25.4         13.4
Government Administration                      13.6           14.5        _
100.0          100.0        100.0
/1  At factor cost.
77 Goods and non-factor services.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Tunisia's economy has grown relatively fast in recent years.  GDP,
in constant prices, increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent from
1976 to 1979. Although this is somewhat less than the 8.6 percent growth
rate for the 1969-76 period, Tunisia's GDP growth of 8.0 percent for the
entire decade 1969-79 places it among the top 10 middle-income countries;
it also marks a substantial improvement over the relatively low growth
(4 percent per annum) experienced during the 1960s. GNP per capita reached
$1,120 in 1979, which, in constant prices, is about 73 percent above the
1969 level.
7.       The impressive growth achieved from 1969 to 1976 was largely
attributable to changes in economic management introduced at the beginning
of this period. In agriculture, stronger Government efforts to stimulate
production, reoriented towards promotion of individual farming, together
with favorable weather conditions, resulted in a near doubling of produc-
tion, a remarkable turn-around from the slow, but continuous, decline in



- 3 -
agricultural production during most of the 1960s. In manufacturing, the
degree of Government control declined, and more incentives were given to
private initiative. An increasingly export-oriented investment strategy,
coupled with a dynamic marketing effort, led to a rapid growth of produc-
tion, particularly in textiles, while tourism was promoted with marked
success.
8.       During the second half of the 1970s, the situation was quite
different, not so much in terms of overall growth (which slowed down
slightly), as in terms of the underlying growth factors: output in agri-
culture has virtually stagnated since 1976, partially as a result of bad
weather conditions; textile production declined in 1978, and tourism
development slowed down because of the 1977 slump in the European tourist
market. By contrast, petroleum production and, to a lesser extent, phos-
phate processing expanded making these two sectors the main engine of
economic growth over the 1976-79 period. After an exceptional low level in
1976, oil production increased by over 12 percent per annum up to 1979;
more important, however, were the large profits reaped by Tunisia from the
successive increases in crude oil prices, starting in 1974. These large
additional foreign exchange earnings enabled the country to increase its
investments, from an average of slightly over 20 percent of GDP before
1975, to nearly 29 percent thereafter, and expand its public services at a
rapid rate. These two factors, in turn, triggered a rapid growth in the
construction industry and in local manufacturing of construction materials.
9.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particu-
larly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favor-
able. Even in constant prices, exports grew marginally faster than
imports. In addition, the terms of trade improved significantly, due to
higher export prices for oil and low import prices for grain.  As a result,
the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed
on average over 72 percent of the greatly increased investment effort. The
current account deficit of $500-600 million (1978/1979) was easily
financed: grant aid and private investments accounted for about 30 per-
cent, while the remainder was covered by long-term foreign borrowing. The
increase in lending to Tunisia from public sources allowed it to reduce
borrowing from financial markets and suppliers' credits. During the 1970s,
therefore, total foreign debt disbursed increased little relative to GDP
and the debt service ratio improved (para. 18). Net foreign exchange
reserves increased in seven out of the last ten years, but still repre-
sented only 1.5 months of imports at the end of 1979.
10.      Since independence, the public sector has played a major role in
mobilizing and redistributing domestic resources. General budgetary
revenues were equivalent to one-third of GDP in 1978 and 1979, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over one-fourth of these
revenues were saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of
total government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance
situation has led to a fast increase in subsidy payments to private con-
sumers and public enterprises. buch transfers have nearly aoubled over the
last four years, accounting for 16 percent of total current budget outlays,



-4-
or 4 percent of GDP. This level of subsidies, co cover the increasing
operational deficits of public enterprises may not be sustainable in the
long term; similarly, consumer subsidies for basic necessities will have to
concentrate more systematically on the needy.
Medium-term Prospects
11.      The objectives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) have a good
chance of being achieved, except for the employment creation targets. The
actual GDP growth will be just short of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per
annum, while the investment objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or
30 percent of GDP, will be fully met. Completion of some large projects in
the public sector (steel, cement, expansion of the oil refinery) will, how-
ever, be delayed. Private sector investments, both foreign and national,
are likely to exceed Plan targets. The Government welcomes this shift from
large capital-intensive projects in the public sector to medium-scale
industries as a means to speed up employment creation. Open and hidden
unemployment is currently considered the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy. During 1977-79, the domestic non-agricultural economy
could only absorb three-fourths of new job seekers. In view of this, and
of the fact that migration to Libya and Europe is decreasing rapidly, the
overall unemployment and underemployment rate, estimated at between 20 and
25 percent, has not declined markedly.
12.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) is presently in preparation.
Employment generatior., food self-sufficiency, and more rapid growth in the
three most backward regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and
South) are likely to be among its major objectives. The outlook for over-
all economic growth during this period and beyond, will depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Based on known reserves,
it is generally expected that oil production will decline after 1981 from
its present level of 5-6 million tons per annum and will come to an end
during the late 1990s. The possible exploitation of some of the smaller
fields that may soon become profitable will not delay the declining produc-
tion trend by more than a few years. Some otf-shore fields cannot be
exploited for the time being, because they are located in areas disputed by
Libya. Gas production in presently exploited fields (385,000 tons of oil
equivalent--toe--in 1979) is expected to cease around 1990. Royalties from
the Algerian/Italian pipeline will provide an aeditional supply of natural
gas, rising from 200,000 toe in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and there-
after. Negotiations with Algeria on the purchase of additional quantities
of natural gas are proceeding, but have so far been inconclusive. The
Government is therefore considering the exploitation of the off-shore gas
field of Miskar, despite its high production cost. The optimal use of all
these resources is being studied with foreign assistance within a compre-
hensive long-term policy framework.
13.      While detailed macroeconomic growth projections beyond the mid-
1980s will have to wait for the outcome of these studies, there can
be little doubt that--barring large new oil discoveries--Tunisia will face



- 5 -
the consequences of a decline in oil and gas production over the next 10-15
years, and become a net importer of hydrocarbons, perhaps as early as 1987-
88. The Government is fully aware of these developments. It agrees that
the situation will require significant policy changes in the near future
and is analyzing the areas where these changes will have to take place in
the context of the preparation of the Sixth Plan. Unlike many other
developing countries, however, Tunisia has enough lead time to introduce
these changes gradually until the mid-1980s. This will reduce the
associated economic and social strains, and should avoid major balance-of-
payments problems. Assuming that the necessary measures will be imple-
mented, it is reasonable to expect an overall GDP growth of about 7 percent
in constant prices, until at least 1985.
14.      The expected decline in oil production and exports is likely to
have an impact on external debt and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. Changes in demand management will thus be required to avoid
balance-of-payments difficulties and maintain satisfactory economic
growth. In the public sector, the necessary restraint in current budget
expenditures will require a reassessment of present price and subsidy
policies, in particular for energy, basic foodstuffs, and transportation.
Considering the complexity and the pervasiveness of the present subsidy
system, and the impact its dismantling will have on domestic inflation and
on the standard of living (particularly on the 17 percent of the population
still living in absolute poverty), the introduction of changes into the
system will be a difficult endeavor, and ought to be initiated without
delay. As part of this effort, the subsidies to public enterprises, to a
large extent stemming from managerial inefficiencies, ought to be phased
out. In addition, interest rate and fiscal policies will have to be used
more effectively to restrain final consumption, particularly of imports,
and to stimulate savings. Finally, wage and salary policies will have to
keep labor cost increases in line with productivity increases, particularly
since Tunisia will have to stimulate tourism and make a greater effort to
improve its competitiveness in international markets by promoting exports
of manufactured goods other than textiles.
15.      A successful and timely implementation of these policy changes,
however, cannot prevent a decline in the domestic savings rate. This, in
turn, will require a corresponding adjustment in the investment rate below
the present average of 29 percent of GDP, so as to maintain a manageable
spread between domestic savings and investments. More resources will have
to be allocated to labor-intensive projects, particularly to small and
medium manufacturing enterprises, in order to ease the unemployment problem
and reduce income disparities, between rural and urban areas as well as
within each of these areas. While investments in education, health, hous-
ing and water supply will have to continue, they should be focussed more on
the neediest income groups, provided at lower costs (health, shelter), and
made more relevant to the needs of the economy (education, training).
Social Issues
16.      In general, Tunisia's social performance has been impressive.
bince independence, the country has come a long way towards meeting the



- 6 -
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 per-
cent of GDP is now devoted to social programs, although too many of the
benefits still accrue to the upper income groups. Education expenditures
rank first among budgetary outlays. The comprehensive education system
provides free access for all students, and the gross enrollment rate has
reached 100 percent for primary education and 22 percent for secondary
education. The performance of the system, however, could be improved by:
(a) expanding vocational training programs and improving their relevance
and coordination with labor demand; and (b) catering more to poorer and
rural groups. Public health services are second among social expenditures,
and their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel, and the
medical referral system is not properly functioning. As a result, the
rural poor are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies,
infant mortality is still high. bo far health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine. To achieve better and faster results, the
Government is planning to allocate more resources to preventive medicine
and nutrition education. Finally, Tunisia faces a difficult housing
situation. Subsidized housing, the cornerstone of public intervention, has
not reached the most needy groups. The housing demand from households
above the poverty limit should be satisfied by the private sector; to this
end, adequate incentives need to be provided.
17.      Absolute poverty still affects one out of every six people in
Tunisia. Over the last fifteen years, the overall number of absolute poor
remained stable but declined in rural areas as a result of internal and
external migration. Most of the poor are unskilled seasonal workers in
agriculture and industry, small farmers, and artisans. Income differen-
tials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as the tax
system and budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The
Government is using the preparation of the forthcoming Plan as an occasion
to focus on basic needs and poverty alleviation, with a view to abolishing
absolute poverty before the end of this century. A low population growth
rate will be an important factor for a significant alleviation of poverty.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
18.      As mentioned above (para. 9), foreign borrowing remained limited
during the second half of the 1970s, and a growing share of foreign funds
was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. During the
1976-79 period, foreign loan commitments averaged about $670 million per
annum, two-thirds of which in the form of Official Development Assistance
(ODA-4450 million or some $75 per capita). About 70 percent of ODA com-
mitments came from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canada, but also some oil-surplus countries, whose contribu-
tions averaged about one-fourth of total bilateral ODA. About 17 percent
of total ODA was committed by the Bank Group, and some 13 percent by other



- 7 -
multilateral sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 6.1 per-
cent interest and 18 years maturity, including a grace period of 4.8
years. At the end of 1979, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at
about $2.9 billion, or one-third of GDP; debt service was 10.7 percent of
exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.8 percent in 1970.
19.      Direct foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s,
but have gained momentum during the last five years in line with increased
activities in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from less than
$20 million in 1969 to more than 4100 million in 1976 and i165 million in
1979 with the increase going into the petroleum sector.
20.      The balance-of-payments outlook remains favorable, at least up to
the mid-1980s. Thereafter, much will depend on the policy measures
initiated during the next few years (para. 14). The main risk would be for
Tunisia to attempt to continue its policy of high investments and high
current social outlays in spite of the expected decline in foreign exchange
earnings and domestic savings. Pressures to that effect will certainly
exist. The new Government formed in the spring of 1980, however, is aware
of this danger and recognizes the need for change. Considering its long
record of prudent and skillful balance-of-payments and external debt
management, there is every reason to assume that Tunisia will formulate and
implement the necessary reforms and, thus, will continue to remain credit-
worthy for future Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONs IN TUNISIA
21.      Between 1962 and March 31, 1981, Tunisia has received forty-one
Bank loans and eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $765.6 million
and $70.1 million (net of cancellations) of which fifteen loans and nine
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is
generally satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created
or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sectors
or subsectors.
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting
Government efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more
balanced growth and distribution of income among regions and income groups
with particular emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented
policies and investments; and (d) provide selective support for the
development of basic infrastructure and for institution building in key
public services. An important feature of this strategy is to support the
Tunisian authorities in the timely and well-coordinated preparation of
projects through missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the



IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation
Facility. The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to
increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing
for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view
of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
23.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending
for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, educa-
tion, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and
public transport project has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commit-
ments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism
infrastructure has accounted for 36 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 22 percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly
through the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), 14 per-
cent of total commitments.
24.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its
efforts in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and
social development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional
integration and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between
urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment
creation and institution building. In addition to the proposed health and
population project, projects to assist vocational training, industrial,
rural and power development have been or are expected to be presented to
the Board in the current fiscal year. The lending program for the future
includes projects in various stages of processing in the agricultural
sector, in industry, highways, urban development and education.
25.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country (paras. 12 and 13). Two major
reports in 1980 on the mechanical and electrical industries and on the
social aspects of development provided a better knowledge of the country's
industrial development base and prospects in these sub-sectors, and a
better understanding of income disparities by evaluating the Government's
social policies aimed at poverty alleviation. Future reports will include
a review of pricing and subsidy policies in the rural sector, of the Sixth
Plan (1982-1986), and of the agricultural, education and training, urban
and energy sectors.
26.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end of 1979 (including loans from private
sources) was 10 percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was
11 percent. The Bank's and IDA's share in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt by 1986 is expected to decrease to about 7 percent, and their share in
the debt service would increase to about 16 percent.



- 9 -
27.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), BDET (a
Tunisian development finance company), in Compagnie Financiere et
Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in tourism projects),
in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel development), in
Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium fluoride from local
fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development
project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12.8 million, as of
March 31, 1981.
PART III - THE HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTORS
The Health Status of the Population
28.      Since independence, Tunisia's massive and consistent efforts
towards poverty alleviation and human resources development have contri-
buted to considerable improvement in the general health of the population.
However, as a result of inadequate health services coverage, poor environ-
mental sanitation and limited access to safe water, rural areas still expe-
rience high infant and child mortality as well as persisting high fertility
and malnutrition.
29.      Life expectancy at birth has increased from 48 years in 1960 to
57 years in 1978, placing Tunisia near the top of comparable middle income
countries (paras. 4 and 16). Immunization campaigns and preventive actions
have brought major communicable diseases (typhus, typhoid, malaria) largely
under control. Nevertheless, a number of potentially controllable diseases
such as tuberculosis, gastro-intestinal and respiratory infections,
influenza, hepatitis, skin and eye diseases are still prevalent. While
some diseases of infancy and childhood (polio, diphtheria, whooping-cough
and measles) are declining as a result of immunization, air-borne, water-
borne and nutrition-related diseases, together with insufficient pre-natal
and post-natal care, are responsible for the current infant mortality of
123 per thousand, a relatively high rate, varying from 70 in urban areas to
170 per thousand in some rural areas. About half of all deaths in Tunisia
are of children under five years of age, and about half of all child deaths
occur during the first year of life. Premature births, accounting for 10
percent of infant deaths in hospitals, and more in rural areas with no
access to health services, are related to the poor health and malnutrition
of mothers. When they do not lead to premature death, poor health and
malnutrition in infancy result often in irreversible impairment of learning
and productive capacity, and contribute to the high drop-out and repeater
rates in primary schools. They also contribute to the low productivity of
labor which, as indicated in the Bank's analysis of Tunisia's "Social
Aspects of Development" (Report No. 2950-TUN of June 18, 1980) is one of
the major impediments to the country's economic development, affecting
particularly the agricultural sector.
30.      Although diminishing, malnutrition is still pervasive and appears
to be directly related to income levels, food distribution and intra-family



- 10 -
patterns of food usage rather than overall availability. The results of
the 1980 National Food Consumption and Nutrition Survey will provide an
up-dated nutritional profile of the population. Available data based on a
similar survey in 1975, indicate that, while in terms of minimum require-
ments for proteins and calories average per-capita supplies are at an over-
all satisfactory level, 14 percent of the population, roughly corresponding
to the nationwide absolute poverty estimates (para. 17), do not receive
their minimum daily intake requirements. Also, some major nutrient defi-
ciencies (iron, calcium, vitamins A, B2 and D) have been identified.
Malnutrition affects particularly women and children, and is more severe in
urban areas where 18 percent of the population does not receive caloric
requirements as compared to 9 percent in rural areas. About 55 percent of
children below six years of age showed evidence of stunted growth and ten
percent of severe malnutrition; 70 percent of children hospitalized in 1979
suffered from various forms of malnutrition. Anemia, exacerbated by para-
sitic infections, was reported to affect nearly one quarter of Tunisia's
children and nearly half of women of child-bearing age.
Population and Family Planning
31.      Inadequacies and under-reporting in the civil registration system,
especially in rural areas, and shortage of trained statisticians in the
health sector have resulted in unreliable and often conflicting population
data. According to current official estimates based on the 1975 census and
on data collected by the National Office of Population and Family Planning
(ONPFP), Tunisia's population of 6.3 million (1980) is increasing at a rate
of 2.2 percent per annum, expected to fall to 2.1 percent by 1986. The
fertility rate declined from an average of 200 live births per thousand
women of reproductive age during the 1960s to 155 per thousand in 1976, and
is targeted at 120 per thousand for 1986. The crude birth rate decreased
from 49 per thousand in 1960 to 32 in 1978, the lowest among Arab coun-
tries, and is expected to reach 30 per thousand by 1986. However, the
preliminary results of the Government's analysis of past and current popu-
lation trends in preparation for the Sixth Plan (1982-1986) now suggest
that population growth may have averaged 2.6 percent since 1975 largely due
to a reversal in the traditional migration pattern (para. 11), a rapid
decrease in the overall death rate and the persisting high fertility rates
in rural areas. If the current fertility rates remain unchanged, the
Tunisian population will double by the year 2000, exceeding a total of 12
million.
32.      Past achievements in fertility reduction can in large part be
attributed to the success of the Tunisian family planning program which was
initiated in 1964 and has made Tunisia a model and training ground for
francophone African and Arab countries. According to the 1978 National
Fertility Survey, 92 percent of married women of reproductive age (MWRA -
between 15 and 49 years of age) knew of, and 43 percent had used, at least
one family planning method. These results are largely due to the work of
ONPFP which was established in 1973 with support from an IDA-assisted
project (para. 43). Strong political and financial backing, coupled with
broad international support, allowed ONPFP to formulate a coherent family



- 11 -
planning policy, and develop a wide range of programs and activities. The
whole spectrum of contraceptive methods is now readily available free of
charge or at low cost to the acceptors. Family planning also enjoys the
broad support of traditional leaders and has proved to be socio-culturally
acceptable by the country as a whole, including its illiterate rural
population.
33.      The main deficiencies in family planning service delivery are a
critical shortage of specialized health personnel in rural areas; inade-
quate monitoring and supervision of field activities; and logistical and
financial constraints keeping the ONPFP from expanding into rural areas
where there is still a large unmet demand for such services. In rural
areas, about 75 percent of married women of reproductive age are not
effectively protected. Since 1977, the official family planning program
has been falling short of its targets of new acceptors; however this short-
fall was largely compensated for by the increasingly important role of the
private sector. By expanding health services to the rural areas, the
proposed project will help remove the major obstacles to progress of the
family planning program.
The Health Care System: Problems and Policies
34.      The Tunisian health care system is in transition.  Up to the
mid-1970s, the thrust of the Government's development efforts in the health
sector were directed towards the expansion of the physical infrastructure
and of hospital-based and curative services centered in urban areas. This
approach, reinforced by a thriving private sector, has bypassed the poor,
practically excluding over 50 percent of the rural population from the
system. The Fifth Plan (1977-81) articulated for the first time a shift in
emphasis, giving priority to basic health care and preventive medicine, to
a better regional distribution of medical resources and services, to the
establishment of an adequate referral system and to improved cost effec-
tiveness. The implementation of this policy is expected to form an essen-
tial part of the forthcoming Sixth Plan. This policy involves major
readjustments in the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) namely: an improve-
ment of its planning and management capacity, particularly of its manage-
ment information system (MIS) initiated in 1975; the creation of a new
department of Basic Health Services and the strengthening of the manage-
ment, budgeting and administrative system by separating the hospital from
the basic health care subsectors. It will require the Government to con-
tinue the MOPH decentralization process (begun in 1977), delegating
increased authority to the country's medical regions, and to take the
necessary measures for strengthening and integrating all health services
and activities including mother and child health (MCH), family planning and
nutrition under MOPH's control. This strategy also calls for the creation
of a new category of managers in the governorates and of new types and
profiles of health personnel. To that end, the Government has initiated
since 1979, the revision of the paramedical training system and curricula,
the reorientation of teaching in medical schools, and the expansion of the
basic health care infrastructure particularly in the rural areas. The
proposed project would make a major contribution to the implementation of
the Government's basic health care policy.



- 12 -
35.      Since its establishment as an independent ministry in 1964, MOPH
has lacked an adequate administrative structure, management capacity and
stable leadership, thus allowing a number of agencies, legally under its
jurisdiction, to develop into powerful independent bodies, often duplicat-
ing efforts and activities. The ONPFP is at present managing its own 15
urban family planning centers, operating 45 mobile teams and providing
services in over 400 public health facilities. The National Institute of
Nutrition and Food Technology (INNTA), created in 1973 to advise the
Government on food planning and production policies, has launched nutrition
and food supplement distribution programs and services. The National
Institute of Child Health (INE) in addition to operating the Tunis
Children's Hospital, carried operational and supervision responsibilities
for MCH centers. MOPH now has a strong and competent leadership determined
to concentrate all public health services and operational staff under the
umbrella of the Ministry. ONPFP, INE and INNTA will revert to their
original functions of assisting MOPH in policy formulation, research,
education and training, although ONPFP will continue to operate its
successful urban centers. A series of measures have been taken in
August 1980 which reflect, in the health sector, the Government's commit-
ment to administrative decentralization. Full executive powers have been
delegated to the Regional Directors of Health for all health personnel
matters and medical resources in their regions.
36.      With regard to basic health services, i.e. the provision of
preventive and curative care, family planning, nutrition, sanitation and
health education, the MOPH intends to put the emphasis on a multi-pronged
(or "integrated") approach. It involves the following coordinated acti-
vities: the control of communicable diseases by means of wider immuniza-
tion campaigns and earlier diagnosis; the control of endemic diseases such
as tuberculosis by means of earlier diagnosis and treatment; the provision
of family planning services; the early identification of malnutrition and
the increased distribution of dietary supplements such as high protein
flour, vitamins and iron; the health of mothers and children, with partic-
ular emphasis on pre- and post-natal care, and the systematic treatment of
gastro-intestinal and respiratory ailments, and malnutrition, i.e., the
chief causes of infant mortality; the strengthening of health education in
the fields of sanitation, family planning and nutrition and its coordina-
tion among the agencies concerned; and the systematic control of water
quality and treatment of wells with chlorine.
37.      Implementation of this approach requires bringing health services
closer to the population by increasing the density of the health network at
its lower levels and providing a more effective and uniform system of
referral to higher levels. The MOPH has designed a system, which empha-
sizes the health team approach, and prepared plans for its nationwide
replication, based on the experience gained during its successful testing
over four years in the Medjez-el-Bab area. The implementation of these
plans is already taking place in two governorates of the proposed project
area (Sousse and Jendouba). The system functions at four levels:



- 13 -
(a) At the first level, basic services, such as vaccination, the
distribution of simple medicines and contraceptives, the detection of
infectious diseases and malnutrition and the treatment of minor ailments
are provided on one day every week or every two weeks by visiting nurses in
"imeeting places" with a catchment area of 300-800 people, or in health
posts providing a somewhat wider range of services, including injections,
the distribution of contraceptives, and family planning advice, servicing
localities with 1,500-3,000 people. People whose needs cannot be met at
these meeting places or health posts are referred to the dispensaries at
the second level.
(b) At the second level, a family-wide range of outpatient services is
provided in dispensaries, each serving a population from 5,000-10,000
people in rural areas and from 10,000 to 20,000 in urban areas, by teams
consisting of two full-time nurses and visiting physicians, midwives and
specialists. Each rural dispensary serves all people within a 6-km
radius. The services include medical consultations, family planning
advice, insertion of IUDs, the distribution of medicines, contraceptives
and food and vitamin supplements, and nutritional education;
(c) The third level is based on district hospitals, each serving a
population of about 30,000 people. At these hospitals larger teams pro-
vide, in addition to the services available at lower levels, hospitaliza-
tion (including maternity wards), minor surgery (including tubal ligation
and medical abortion), X-ray diagnosis and dental treatment. Hygiene tech-
nicians are attached to district hospitals; they survey sanitation in
public places, the quality of water supply and public waste disposal.
Schools in the district are regularly visited by medical teams who provide
systematic immunization and control, and advise teachers on health
education;
(d) The fourth level consists of the regional hospitals located in the
larger towns, each serving a population of about 200,000 people, and offer-
ing a comprehensive range of services. Patients whose needs cannot be met
at lower levels may be referred to these regional hospitals.
38.      In 1979, the country's public health system provided services
through 824 basic health care facilities (126 health posts, 503 rural
dispensaries, 85 urban dispensaries, 110 MCH centers including the 28 built
under the First Population project - para. 43), and 49 district hospitals,
20 regional hospitals, and 18 specialized institutions and general
hospitals. In addition, the National Social Security Fund (CNSS) is
building six urban poly-clinics which will all be operational in 1981/
1982. Public and private health facilities are concentrated in major
cities where large hospitals absorb a significant share of the MOPH budget
and personnel, and attract patients who could be treated effectively at
lower levels of the referral system. As a result, some dispensaries are
underutilized, and while district hospital utilization rates are only about
30 percent, the capacity of major hospitals, particularly in Tunis, is
often exceeded.



- 14 -
39.      About two-thirds of all public health personnel work in
hospitals.  Although the national physician to population ratio improved in
recent years from 1/4,800 in 1978 to 1/3,650 in 1980, over 44 percent of
all physicians still work in Tunis. At present, the country has approx-
imately 1,730 physicians, of whom 1,330 are engaged in public service
providing very uneven medical coverage. About one-third of the public
sector physicians are expatriates, serving mostly in rural areas. The
Government has established a special commission, which will submit its
report by December 1981, recommending incentives to make service in rural
areas more attractive. Because of the very rapid increase in the number
of secondary school graduates all entitled to further education, about
3,000 students are currently enrolled in the country's three Faculties of
Medicine where teaching has traditionally emphasized curative care and
medical specialization. However, courses in community medicine, epidemi-
ology and health economics and planning are being gradually introduced, and
all medical students are now required to complete a six-month internship in
public health services in rural areas. The number of medical graduates has
tripled in the past five years to about 340 in 1980. Some 500 graduates
are expected in 1981, but the MOPH intends to control future enrollments to
reflect expected manpower needs and avoid the costs associated with educat-
ing an excess number of physicians.
40.      The number of paramedics also increased steadily from 6,400 in
1972 to 10,400 at present. The country's paramedical training system
comprises fourteen paramedical schools and training sections in two
universities. At present the system produces auxiliary health workers,
regular and specialized nurses and high-level technicians.  Paramedical
school teachers are trained at the Health Training and Research Center
(CRFP) attached to the Tunis Faculty of Medicine. CRFP is also responsible
for the design of health personnel training curricula. With the slowing
down of emigration of qualified nurses, and the additional large para-
medical school (capacity 300) now under construction in Monastir, the
projected output of the system will be sufficient to cover the public
health sector's continuing expansion needs. However, teaching curricula
overly emphasize theory, provide little practical training and lack serious
attention to family planning, nutrition, prevention and public health
subjects. Paramedical schools, especially the smaller ones, generally lack
adequate equipment and teaching materials; moreover, some buildings are old
and poorly maintained. Because employment opportunities do not keep pace
with the growth of the labor force and the expansion of the education
system, paramedics tend to be over-educated, which may result in a reluc-
tance to perform certain tasks incompatible with their self-perceived pro-
fessional status. Midwives, for instance, who are trained in universities
as "high-level technicians in obstetrics", consider themselves entitled to
hospital appointments rather than work in villages. The Government is
taking steps to establish job profiles and reduce the number of specializa-
tions in favor of a general, multipurpose, integrated training curriculum,
with an emphasis on prevention and field training. The CRFP is playing an
essential role in this regard. Incentives are also being designed to
encourage paramedics to live and work in rural areas. The proposed project
would help launch the reorientation of paramedical training.



- 15
41.      The Government controls the import, production, distribution and
pricing of all drugs and medical supplies through the Central Pharmacy
which produces about 55 percent (in terms of value) of all drugs prescribed
in hospitals and manages about 80 of the country's 270 retail pharmacies.
A wide variety of generic and name-brand drugs are sold to retailers at
prices much higher than cost; the profits serve to subsidize the drugs
made available at low cost through Government services. While hospitals
generally receive adequate supplies of drugs, health facilities below the
hospital level experience periodic shortages particularly in rural areas.
This results from the existing budgeting system which does not disaggregate
the resource allocations between hospitals and dispensaries. Beginning in
January 1982, a revised budgeting system will be introduced to identify
specific resources for basic health care, thus ensuring adequate provision
of medical supplies at all levels.
Public Health Financing
42.      Public health services are provided virtuallv free-of-charge in
both urban and rural areas.  Public health expenditures amounted to 2.7
percent of GDP in 1979, placing Tunisia high above average among comparable
middle-income countries. At constant prices, recurrent health expenditure
increased at an average yearly rate of 14 percent over the past five
years. However, the proportion of total Government recurrent expenditures
devoted to health fell from 9.3 percent in 1971 to 7.8 percent in 1980.
Based on MOPHI's estimates, hospitals receive 97 percent of total recurrent
health expenditure, while all 600 dispensaries receive a mere 0.5 percent,
excluding salaries which are part of the regional hospital budgets. Wages
and salaries of all health personnel represent more than 75 percent of
total recurrent expenditure. Capital expenditures have substantially
increased during the 1970s; direct investment in infrastructure increased
by 47 percent between 1978 and 1979. Bilateral and multilateral sources
have provided considerable support for health, population and nutrition
activities in Tunisia since the mid-1960s. USAID, the major bilateral aid
agency in the health and family planning sectors in Tunisia, contributed
about $26 million since 1965 for the development of Tunisia's rural health
service network, including family planning and nutrition programs, and is
supporting a program of integrated basic health services in four rural
governorates, similar to the proposed project. The ONPFP maintains its own
independent budget. In 1979, its investment program was entirely financed
through the IDA population project, and over two-thirds of its operations
are, and continue to be, regularly financed by external donors, mainly
USAID (32 percent) and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities-
UNFPA (25 percent).
Previous Bank Group Operations in the Sector
43.      The first Bank Group operation in the health sector in Tunisia
supported a population project with an IDA credit of $4.8 million approved
in 1971. The project was designed to strengthen the Tunisian family
planning program by increasing the number of contraceptive acceptors and to



- 16 -
improve the MCH care system. It consisted of the construction and equip-
ment of four maternity hospitals (Tunis, Sousse, Sfax, Bizerte), 29 MCH
centers, an extension of the Tunis Avicenne Paramedical Training School,
and technical assistance for management, training, and evaluation. The
project was administered first by MOPH and after 1974 by ONPFP. It was
scheduled for completion in 1975. Due to initial delays in selecting
consultants, and architects completing designs, construction did not begin
until 1974, and progress was much slower than expected. This was mainly
due to the construction industry being overtaxed by the heavy construction
programs called for by the Fourth and Fifth Plans and to ONPFP's lack of
experience. The project is now expected to be completed by end-1981. As a
resu]t of delays in implementation and price escalation, the total esti-
mated cost increased to about $35 million, compared with the initial
appraisal estimate of $7 million. Additional financing was provided by the
Norwegian Aid Agency (a $4.8 million grant in August 1976), and the Govern-
ment.
44.      The 1975 Bank sector review ("The Population Program of the Gov-
ernment of Tunisia", Report No. 651-TUN), IDA review missions, and those of
other donors (mainly USAID and UNFPA) were instrumental in drawing atten-
tion to, and securing a reform of the ONPFP's administrative deficiencies.
The Bank review noted that under the leadership of the ONPFP, the delivery
of family planning services had been increased and reorganized; more effec-
tive motivation and education campaigns had been conducted; research had
been initiated; new contraceptive methods introduced; and the collection of
family planning data and training of health workers in family planning
methods had been intensified. The review recommended that family planning
services should be further increased, and that they should be provided by
MOPH field staff under ONPFP supervision. However, the MOPH at that time
lacked the continuity, commitment, infrastructure and management skills
to take up additional operational responsibilities for family planning
delivery. Consequently, the ONPFP filled the vacuum by expanding a
parallel delivery system despite the inefficiencies resulting from duplica-
tion of facilities, high unit costs and inability to cover rural areas ade-
quately. Over the next three years, the Government moved toward the inte-
gration of health and family planning services and began to test a new
delivery system through pilot projects in Le Kef, Sfax, Jendouba and
Medjez-el-Bab. Pending the outcome of those efforts, the Government per-
mitted ONPFP to retain its established delivery system, as applicable to
the Bank-aided project and elsewhere, as a practical way to maintain
momentum in the family planning program. The pilot projects have
demonstrated the effectiveness of integrated services and consequently
ONPFP will gradually revert to its original functions, while continuing to
operate its urban centers (para. 35).
45.      The IDA-assisted project's impact on infant mortality and child
health cannot yet be determined, since the MCH centers have only recently
come into operation. The urban centers show promising results, but those
in rural areas are still understaffed, and have a low utilization rate; all
centers will be integrated into the peripheral network of MOPH facilities.



- 17 -
Three maternity hospitals have been constructed and the fourth is expected
to be completed before the end of 1981. The extension of the Avicenne
Paramedical Training School has enabled the Government to train specialized
nurses and midwives. The IDA project reflected the general view prevalent
ten years ago that vertical programs and hospital and clinic based
postpartum programs were the most effective method of recruiting new
acceptors. Experience in Tunisia as well as in other countries has shown
that this approach is costly and reaches only a small proportion of the
rural population. It has also shown that, as proposed in this follow-up
project, to attract a larger proportion of the rural population and to
generate demand for family planning, other health services have to be
offered in conjunction with maternity and child care and family planning.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
46.      Despite substantial progress, several important problems continue
to affect the quality and coverage of Tunisian health, family planning and
nutrition programs. Growth of urban services has far outstripped expansion
in rural areas; only about half the rural population has access to adequate
health care. A large unmet demand for family planning services persists in
rural areas, partly because of 15 years of success in information and
education activities. Nutrition outreach is extremely limited, although
nutrition education appears to have met with some success. Health services
retain a bias towards curative methods and expensive hospital care. Man-
agement, training and logistical deficiencies have perpetuated inappro-
priate and costly patterns of health, family planning and nutrition
services. The proposed project which is part of the Government's efforts
to remedy this situation, was identified early in 1977, prepared by MOPH
with the assistance of Bank preparation missions in January 1978, June and
September 1979, appraised in November 1979 and, owing to gaps in project
preparation, reappraised in May 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington
from April 16 to April 20, 1981. The Tunisian delegation was led by Mr. H.
Zayati, Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Health. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of a Health and Population Project," No.
3204-TUN, dated May 6, 1981 is being circulated separately. The main
features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary
at the beginning of this report. Annex III summarizes key events leading
to Board presentation and special conditions provided for in the Loan
Agreement. A map showing the project area is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
47.      The purpose of this project is to integrate family planning ser-
vices with preventive and curative care, nutrition, health education and
sanitation, into a basic health delivery system focused on underserved
areas and to support the Government's plans to extend basic health services



- 18 -
(paras. 36 and 37) gradually to the entire Tunisian population by 1990.  In
its first phase, the national basic health care delivery system is being
introduced in 12 of the country's 20 governorates. Since four of these
will be covered by a USAID-financed project, the proposed project would
cover six sparsely populated rural governorates with low per capita income
(Jendouba, Le Kef, Beja, Zaghouan, Kairouan and Mahdia) and two more devel-
oped and more densely populated governorates where trained personnel and
training institutions are readily available (Sousse and Monastir). A plan
for the expansion of the integrated health delivery system to the rest of
Tunisia would be prepared as part of this project. The project area's
mostly rural population, estimated at 2.3 million in 1980, is expected to
reach 2.5 million by 1986, representing about 35 percent of the country's
projected total population for that year. Target population groups include
about 81,000 infants, 279,000 pre-school children and 315,000 married women
of reproductive age (MWRA). The specific objectives of the project in the
eight governorates are to reduce; (a) infant mortality to about 80/1000
from an estimated national average of 123 per thousand considered as
representative of the project area; (b) the birth rate from about 43/1000
to 36/1000; and (c) morbidity from tuberculosis and other respiratory
diseases, parasitic and viral infections. These objectives are to be
achieved over a five-year period, once the project has become fully opera-
tional. While ambitious, they are attainable by increasing the proportion
of the population having access to basic health services, including family
planning, from about 50 percent to about 90 percent, and by extending
health education to the target population.
48.      The proposed project therefore aims at:  (a) strengthening the
management capability of MOPH; (b) improving and expanding the basic health
care delivery system and infrastructure in eight governorates; (c) improv-
ing and expanding the scope, content and effectiveness of national educa-
tion and communication programs in health, population ane nutrition;
(d) upgrading the training system and its infrastructure, and training,
upgrading and redeploying health personnel in the project area.
49.      Strengthening the MOPH's management capability, to ensure effec-
tive delivery of integrated basic health care, will be essential for
successful project implementation. For this purpose, the project would
assist in the ongoing process of development, rationalization and decen-
tralization of MOPH's administrative structure. Planning, management,
budgeting and cost-control, monitoring and evaluation processes would be
strengthened through the improvement and expansion of a management informa-
tion system (MIS). Data processing equipment, including 12 regional
computer terminals connected to the Tunis National Computer Center (CNI),
additional computer services and increased managerial, statistical and
support staff, would help establish and maintain up-dated health, nutrition
and demographic profiles. The project would also provide for administra-
tive equipment and vehicles. MOPH would contract CNI for additional
computer services by March 31, 1982 under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(b)).



- 19 -
50.      The project would include a program of studies and applied
research to determine the impact of basic health services and their cost-
effectiveness in rural areas and prepare a plan for their extension
throughout the country. The main topics to be included in this program
were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. At the governorate
level, in addition to Regional Directors of Health (para. 35) specially
appointed physicians ("Heads of Basic Health Services") would be respon-
sible for integrating all basic health services under the functional super-
vision of the Director of Basic Health Services. The MOPH has designated
the Director of Basic Health Services and appointed the eight governorate
Heads of Basic Pealth Services.  The appointment of the Director of Basic
Health Services with responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
51.      The proposed project would establish, in the selected governor-
ates, the integrated basic health care delivery system incorporating
health, family planning and nutrition services. It would provide for the
construction or remodelling, the equipping and furnishing of about 140
health posts, 325 dispensaries, including two in the Tunis area that were
identified in the context of the Bank-assisted Second Urban Development
project (Loan No. 1705-TUV of 1979), 90 staff houses, 8 vehicle maintenance
workshops, vehicles, and additional laboratory equipment for the 21 dis-
trict hospitals in the project area. It would also provide drugs, contra-
ceptives and other supplies. The provision of staff housing attached to
rural dispensaries is one incentive to service in rural areas; improved
buildings and equipment for these dispensaries would support the six-month
compulsory internship service for medical students (para. 39). Sites for
project facilities in rural areas are readily available. With regard to
sites for the new urban facilities (four dispensaries and eight vehicle
maintenance workshops), assurances were obtained during negotiations that
they will be acquired before December 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06(a)). Standard designs for all buildings have been prepared and
reviewed by the Bank. Agreement was reached during negotiations on changes
to be incorporated in the final designs.
52.      The health delivery system to be implemented under the project
follows the model recently developed and successfully tested in Medjez-el-
Bab in North-East Tunisia (para. 37). When fully operational, this system
should reach 90 percent of the population of the project area. The quali-
fied health personnel serving in the project area would be increased under
the project by an additional 20 physicians, 100 high-level technicians and
specialized nurses, and 400 nurses. The annual output of the training
system is sufficient to meet these manpower requirements, and MOPH has
taken steps to ensure the timely recruitment of the additional personnel.
53.      The project would coordinate, strengthen and develop the health,
family planning and nutrition education and communication activities,
currently undertaken by MOPH, ONPFP, INNTA, the Ministries of Education and
Social Affairs, and other public and private agencies. To this end, an
eight-member Working Party set up by MOPH has already drawn up a motiva-
tional program. Mass media messages would reinforce individual and group



- 20 -
contacts. During 1981, the project would provide short-term overseas
training fellowships for the Working Party members who, upon their return,
would conduct training courses for all health educators. The project would
provide for the production of training materials and visual aids, and for
vehicles. Two regional health education centers would be constructed and
equipped under the project in Sousse and Jendouba, and the MOPH's Health
Education Center in Tunis would be expanded. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that these facilities would be constructed according to
architectural designs satisfactory to the Bank and that the sites for the
two regional centers would be acquired before December 31, 1981 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06).
54.      The project would contribute to the training of public health
personnel at all levels, through revised curricula for the paramedics and
high-level technicians. It would also provide for retraining about 80
physicians and 1,000 paramedics serving in the project area, as well as 125
paramedical teachers and 40 mid-level managers and statisticians. The CRFP
(para. 40) has been reinforced with additional staff and has revised the
paramedical schools' first-year curriculum, to be introduced in October
1981. The project would assist CRFP in the preparation and implementation
of curricula for the second and third years of paramedical training and for
the three-year high-level technicians courses. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that curricula will be revised and adopted in a
timely fashion (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(a)).
55.      Two teams have already been trained at CRFP to retrain physicians
and paramedics working in the project area. The total program would con-
sist of 70 three-week courses for paramedics and 13 one-week seminars for
physicians focusing on prevention, MCH, family planning and nutrition, and
would be spread over a three-year period. The CRFP would also undertake
the systematic retraining of the teachers of all 14 paramedical schools
through four-week intensive courses, starting with the 45 teachers assigned
to the six schools in the project area. The 40 mid-level managers and
statisticians needed at the governorate level would be trained in the
Faculties of Medicine and Economics of the University of Tunis. Their
training would focus on health planning and management, and on evaluation
and control techniques. All field workers in basic health care education
and communication would also be trained under the project (para. 53). In
addition, the project would upgrade the training infrastructure: four
paramedical schools would be remodelled and equipped and two hospitals
would be converted into paramedical schools. Ten vehicles would also be
provided for these schools.
Technical Assistance
56.      To assist the MOPH in the implementation of the above components,
the project would provide for one specialist each in MIS, health planning
and curriculum development (seven man/years), one architect and two site
supervisors to assist in the construction of buildings (ten man-years) and
consultants' services (about 100 man/months) for studies and applied



- 21 -
research (para. 50).  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all
specialists and consultants would be recruited by mid-1982, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and that Tunisian counterparts would
he appointed before the three specialists assume their responsibilities
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). A total of 60 man/months of short-term
fellowships for the training abroad of six middle-level managers and eight
health educators are included in the proposed project.
Project Cost and Financing
57.      The total cost of the project (including taxes and duties esti--
mated at $2.8 million equivalent) is estimated at $41 million, of which
$12.5 million is foreign exchange. Physical contingencies are calculated
at 10 percent for civil works and equipment, and at 5 percent for computer
services, technical assistance and other incremental expenditures. Price
contingencies are estimated at 29 percent of base cost plus physical con-
tingencies, and total contingencies are 38 percent of base cost. Price
contingencies for both foreign and local costs were computed on the basis
of increases of (a) 9 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982 and 7 percent per
annum thereafter for construction; (b) 10 percent in 1981, 9 percent in
1982, 8 percent in 1983 and 7 percent per annum thereafter for equipment
and vehicles; and (c) 8 percent in 1981 and 1982 and 7 percent per annum
thereafter for other types of expenditure. Cost estimates are based on the
expectation that all civil works and vehicle contracts, and about 70 per-
cent of consultants contracts will be awarded to local firms and suppliers,
and that about 90 percent of all equipment will be imported. Costs of
computer and consultants services are in line with similar contracts in
Tunis, and foreign technical assistance costs are based on an average of
$6,600 per man-month for experts and about $2,000 per month for scholar-
ships, including travel costs. The proposed Bank loan of $12.5 million
would be equivalent to the full foreign exchange cost of the project, or 33
percent of total costs, net of duties and taxes, with the balance of the
project cost being provided by the Government.
58.      As noted in para. 42, during the past five years, recurrent health
expenditure increased, in real terms, by an average of 14 percent per
annum, and amounted to more than 8 percent of the total recurrent budget.
Recurrent public health expenditures outside hospitals in the project area
averaged $2.81 per capita in 1980; by 1986, they are estimated to reach
$4.1 per capita, i.e. an annual increase of about 8 percent in real
terms. Bank projections for 1980-1985 show a 6.5 percent annual growth
rate in GDP and in total public expenditure. Because of the Government's
social objectives and its commitment to the expansion of integrated health
services in rural areas, recurrent health expenditure can also be expected
to grow at least at about the same rate. By 1985, recurrent health expend-
iture outside hospitals in the project area would then represent 5.2 per-
cent of the operating budget of the MOPH (compared with 4.4 percent in
1980). Incremental expenditures generated by the project during its last
year would represent less than 2 percent of MOPH's recurrent budget for
that year. This is considered an affordable objective, in view of the



- 22 -
Government's stated policy of redressing the balance of expenditure between
hospital and peripheral services.
Project Implementation and Evaluation
59.      The MOPH would be responsible for project implementation through
its line Departments. In addition, to ensure proper management and coor-
dination, the Government has established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
attached to the Minister's Cabinet and headed by a senior member of the
Cabinet who would act as Project Coordinator. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the PCU would be properly staffed and vested with
adequate powers (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(i)). The Unit would
include a full time Project Administrator, responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the PCU, an accountant and support staff. The Government has
appointed the Project Coordinator and the Project Administrator. An under-
standing with the Government on the terms of reference of the Project
Administrator was reached during negotiations. To ensure that MCH, family
planning and nutrition services are properly and fully integrated, the
Government would set up, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Public
Health, a Health Advisory Committee with senior members of all agencies
concerned. Assurances were obtained, during negotiations that this Commit-
tee would be established before March 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section
4.03).  MOPH's Directorate of Studies and Planning, whose staff has
actively participated in the project's preparation, would be responsible,
with the assistance of CNI and the MIS expert recruited for this purpose,
for carrying out the MIS programming and data processing and for inter-
preting and analyzing data for planning and budgeting purposes.
60.      The Director of Basic Health Services would supervise the estab-
lishment and strengthening of the peripheral system and infrastructure, the
integration of field personnel and services, the health education and com-
munication activities and the applied research program. The revision and
design of curricula for the training, retraining and upgrading programs
would be carried out by CRFP. The Ministry's Equipment and Building Unit
would carry out the construction program, and would be responsible for
procurement of equipment and vehicles. All the MOPH departments involved
in basic health care activities would be strengthened with technical assis-
tance under the project (para. 56). During negotiations, the timetables
for the construction program, the supply of vehicle and equipment, as well
as the timetables for all training programs under the project were reviewed
and found satisfactory. The Project Coordinator would be responsible for
project monitoring and evaluation. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that a mid-term evaluation of the impact of the integrated health
policy within the project area would be conducted before January 31, 1984,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and that any remedial
action, considered necessary by the Government and the Bank, would be taken
accordingly (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(ii)). Based upon the mid-term
evaluation of the project and the results of the applied research program,
the Government will prepare a plan for the extension of the basic health
care system nation-wide.



- 23 -
Procurement and Disbursement
61.      Civil works under the project are estimated at a total of $9.2
million, including contingencies. Due to the relatively low cost of
construction (ranging from $10,000 for a health post to $45,000 for a
health education center) and the dispersed nature of the sites, contracts
for civil works would for the most part be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding following domestic advertising and local procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. These procedures would permit the grouping of
contracts and the participation of locally-based foreign contractors. The
remodeling work and the construction of small isolated buildings which are
estimated to cost less than $50,000 each, not to exceed an aggregate total
of $3.9 million, are expected to be executed by regional authorities
through force account. The Bank's prior approval would be required for
individual civil works contracts exceeding $100,000. To the extent
practicable, contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles with an
estimated total cost of $7.4 million, including contingencies, would be
grouped in packages of not less than $50,000 equivalent. Contracts of
$50,000 or more would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts of less than $50,000
equivalent, expected to total about $0.5 million, would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The likely size of bid packages for
equipment and vehicles is expected to be about $300,000. For bid evalua-
tion purposes, a 15 percent margin of preference or the actual customs
duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for equipment, furniture,
vehicles and materials manufactured in Tunisia.
62.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  40 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of
directly imported equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials, 100 percent
of the ex-factory price, if manufactured locally, and 50 percent of the
invoice values, if purchased locally ("off-the-shelf"); 100 percent of the
cost of technical assistance, scholarships and training; and 60 percent of
the cost of computer services. The Government's established ceilings on
internal travel allowances are frequently insufficient to cover the full
cost of official travel. To facilitate management and field supervision of
the proposed project, disbursements would also be made against 100 percent
of incremental costs of internal travel by project management staff. Dis-
bursements would be made on the basis of full documentation, except for
civil works on force account, and for expenditures for local training and
project management, disbursements for which would be made against certifi-
cates of expenditure. In these latter cases, the documentation would not
be submitted to the Bank, but retained by the Government for audit and for
inspection by Bank review missions. No disbursements would be made against
drugs, contraceptives and other supplies.



- 24 -
Audit
63.      MOPH would keep separate accounts for the purposes of the proj-
ect. The project accounts (including certificates of expenditure) would be
regularly audited by the Directorate for Financial Control of the Ministry
of Planning and Finance whose procedures are satisfactory to the Bank.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that project accounts would
be audited annually, and that certified copies of these accounts, together
with audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of the Government's fiscal year. In addition, certificates
of expenditure would be audited internally at least once every six months,
and the relevant certificates and reports retained by the MOPH and be made
available to Bank review missions (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
Benefits and Risks
64.      The project would assist the Government in achieving its objec-
tives of improving health and nutrition standards while slowing the rate of
population growth. When fully operational, at 90 percent coverage, project
health and family planning services would reach about 2.25 million benefi-
ciaries per year, including more than 700,000 persons now unserved, mainly
in rural areas. In the beneficiaries are included about 315,000 married
women of reproductive age and about 360,000 preschool children and
infants. The bulk of project activity would take place in the Northwestern
and Central regions, where income distribution is relatively uneven and
significant proportions of the population live in absolute or relative
poverty. By increasing services in these areas, the project thus would
assist the Government to attain its objective of more equitable income
distribution, while meeting basic human needs.
65.      Attempts to quantify the economic impact of improved health condi-
tions are limited by methodological difficulties and inadequate data.
However, the project would reduce the number of sick days and thereby
contribute to increased labor productivity. Total benefits are expected to
exceed significantly the incremental costs of the health system supported
by the proposed project.
66.      While the planned reduction of the birth-rate from 43 to 36 per
thousand in the project governorates is ambitious, it is attainable. Its
achievement would be an important contribution to the Government's objec-
tive of reducing the crude birth rate for Tunisia from 35/1000 in 1976 to
30/1000 in 1986. Substantial unquantifiable benefits would also accrue
from improved child health and lower infant mortality. First, the survival
of more children promotes acceptance of family planning, since the parents
attain the desired family size earlier. Second, improved child health
makes education more effective. Third, the project should help to raise
the quality, vigor and productive capacity of the future work force.



- 25 -
67.      The Government has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to
the new integrated health policy. This policy is supported by the general
population, community leaders and young public health physicians involved
in field operations. The MOPH has taken important steps during project
preparation to improve its administrative and planning capability. Yet
three main risks remain. First, as in any large and decentralized venture,
effective coordination, implementation and management may prove difficult
to achieve. For that reason, the MOPH is establishing a Directorate of
Basic Health Services. The Ministry's capabilities will be reinforced by
project-financed technical assistance. The establishment of the Health
Advisory Committee chaired by the Minister of Public Health, and the
appointment of a Project Coordinator would promote smooth coordination
among the participating agencies and within the Ministry. Finally, the
technical and managerial feasibility of the proposed project activities has
already been proven in the Medjez-el-Bab region. Nevertheless, sustained
Government efforts will be required to ensure full cooperation by agencies
like the ONPFP and the INNTA in the integrated delivery of services which
they formerly provided separately. A second risk is the possibility of
lingering resistance to the shift of emphasis to rural areas, decentraliza-
tion of administration and preventive medicine by part of the medical
establishment. However that attitude is changing as a result of the
tangible results achieved from more than four years of implementation of
the integrated policy, and the positive reactions from populations con-
cerned. The third risk is the difficulty of recruiting Tunisian physicians
and other health personnel to serve in rural areas. This risk is being
offset by the rapidly increasing output of domestic medical and paramedical
graduates, the reversal of the outflow of health personnel to other coun-
tries, a levelling off of competing opportunities in the private sector,
and the incentives which the Government proposes to provide to attract
physicians to public health assignments in rural areas.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text, and listed in Section III of Annex III. There is
one special condition of effectiveness, namely the appointment of the
Director of Basic Health Services, with responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 27 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER4GRS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - YOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            164.o                                                     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      76.6                                MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                    ..       360.0    1120.0                818.5                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EqIIVAIZNT)    190.0       261.0      543.0                545.0                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      4.2         5.1       6.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0        43.5      50.1                 45.7                    63.4
POFULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0        31.0      37.0                 40.7                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     55.0        67.0      78.0                598.6                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3        46.2      42.6                 44.0                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        50.0       53.8                 52.5                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2         3.8       3.6                  3.5                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /c      1.9/c     2.0                  2.6                     2.7
URBAN                               ..         3.8       3.9                  4.5                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0         42.0      32.0                 41.6                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0         15.0      12.0                 13.7                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         3.4       2.2                  2.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        29.2      73.5
USERS, (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        8.0      18.0                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0        98.0    126.0                  93.5                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   80.0        88.0    112.0                 103.6                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        57.0      73.0                 69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0        14.0      22.0                 17.5                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0        20.0      15.0                 17.5                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0         54.0      57.0                 54.4                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                    148.0/d     135.0        ..                   ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        49.0      70.0                 62.5                    65.9
URBAN                               ..         ..         ..                 82.9                    80.4
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..                 45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..         ..                   ..                    62.3
URBAN                               ..         ..       30.0                  ..                     79.4
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..                  ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN         10000.0      5950.0   4800.0                4688.7                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       730.0    1070.0               1751.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            373.0/e    410.0    439.0                  635.5                   480.3
VR8AN                               ..       280.0
RURAL                               ..       930.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        24.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ,.         5.1 /f    6.0
URBAN                               ,,         5.1 7T    5.8
RURAL                               ..         5.1 7?    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         3.2 /f
URBAN                               ,,         2.7 7      *'
RURAL                               ..         3.6 7      ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        24.0 /f
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                                               Page 2 of 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE1 AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 6            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIKATE lb           MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIB8EAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0        100.0      100.0                  76.4                      99.7
MALE                  88.0        120.0      118.0                  92.2                     101.0
FEMALE                43.0         79.0       31.0                  59.9                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TDTAL                  12.0         23.0       22.0                  33.3                      34.4
MALE                  19.0         33.0       28.0                  41.9                      33.5
FEMALE                 5.0         13.0       15.0                  24.2                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 24.0            12.0       17.0                   9.8                      38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             61.0         48.0      40.0                   39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                           16.0         28.0      23.0                   25.1                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.5         24.0/f    55.0                   39.7                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         13.0       18.3                  15.3                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.0         74.0     138.0                  139.6                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1         10.0      35.0                   29.0                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   19.0         16.0       33.0                  22.2                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..        2.3                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1137.9       1214.8    1533.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     6.1          7.7       8.0                    9.6                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.0         49.8      45.0                   47.0                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.6         21.0      24.0                   23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.0         23.7       23.7                  26.1                      31.5
MALE                                  50.2         44.2       44.0                  47.4                      48.9
FEMALE                                 3.3          3.6        4.0                   4.7                      14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.8        1.8                   1.9                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       17.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..       42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     204.0                  262.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..      97.0                  140.4                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     193.0                  202.1                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     193.0                  122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      20.0                   22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..       15.0                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifora.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1960-65 average;
/e 1962. /f 1966.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNE I
- 29-                                                                                            Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL fINDICATONi
Notes:  Although the aura ar  draun f- r.n.oc      .eeneely judged the  oet authrliet-ie and reIiahle  it should alc be outd thee they may met bo Inner-
eainhycnaolohcoeo:h ak  feadrlo    of,tosedcoete usd.by dhferoo..  toI                                              tit.    otol.ti   the dote.  The do to  r,   o
The ref rerI   "ris  r  (1I the 000  otygru  of the u-hj er  coutr  god (0)    ..county grou.p rithi -oehthohe   uteSrmshmeeoscraep
of rh  euhjcrooutro   Cicer  for  Capiol hupluu  ilEtP-rer" group sher  "Middle Incoso Notch Afr,a  n  Middleut'I  ohnsebouso  stroger
sofooltrl   ltoclu  .   nterfrnegou    usteooee  aepplto    egtd arioh-rtit -:-  for ..oh indioo-  sod sho-  omly wh-  tc
le.st half of the   ttouci-s in e group hoe dot -fo  th-ld-ao.    ic   h   oerg fcuties smg the irdicatore depeudef ug the enahalblity of
dote and  La not o.ifoe-. cautonsue  hoeeodin relatfe   unroeof ..e  ediotor- to another.  These averges ore oiy usfl  otoprlsf  the v-le
of one indIctor at o thee amoog the  onr   n   eeec                  us
LA"D AREA (thiusand aqIrk.)                                                                    coueto   prPhysloigo-  .Popuietto   di-tdao by o-fb- us pretltotg pay-
Total - Totol.l erato. re   -,mrtllgo lend ureu ord.inlan  uatro                               stesqaifd from  a medioo sohool an ar,looricy lev1.
Agroucurl    leimtoof ertutr l re  ucd tesPorrLyopemnly                      yI.u..no.r uetgPse   Po,pulating dintdsd.by mebe oif pe-tloleg
-lk.l ..d kil~~~~h- gld-   liorul"tld ret Nf                            ntlgd     oa.aet.adeee      emoeo   cci
GNP PEN CAPITA_ (Till   GNIP P.' tOil p    -It irot..e ut cren      lake  prlce-, -1-            ure,cdrvD   lle   ytereastv   sa                             f haspice  bad
tutored hy nam   ---rion method ou World Nank Atlas  fD977-79 han Is); 1960,                   avsllahl  in pohlit and pritsr  goerl1 sod spmrigied hasitl anre
1970, ad  1909 data.                                                                           hahtlitationeu rs---          ytalaar  setblich-tne  pesmntly stffS
hy at leaat omo physiclee.  Estabia  etc pereidls  prUimnpally escde
ENERGlY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA -  noA-. cInemutnof  o                     -otate gry Icol        rove.are soot i-tladed.   uRst1 hoepicol.. hesee.l  isoLwd   .emth atadise
sod lBLgLco  prtoluo  ceurl-!gaoandtoydro-, nuotea  end geoherml clo-                          lte lersort peracotly stuffed by e phylisie (hut by a medleel seeecct.
teitolty) to kPi1tlogasofca  e        Ivalnt por capita; 1960. 1900, urd 1909mose   idwife,.etc.)  blich offer lo-peelt ooedsima   powvi. a
demo,                                                                                          limited roegs nf ..dior.1 foriIttiea    Poe  metselntel Purpos  wae- m   pi-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                  bolepitalsdlca Wn porl.i. foslosad   p-dlo iend encpeulcy                 ne 2s.1
Toa  Popu1atiom, Mid-tear feLILLonel - As of July 1; 1960, 1900, end 1978                 AdmissP"lors  !rer inerlte  Ned - Total somber  f admlskomu co or dieobeeg
date,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~from hospitals divIded by the nuber of bade.
Urb-ePrlaisIrrvt of ote) - natlo of urban cc to..ol roynletton;
diffrt delii     f.  or -0oeasy afc  on-rbtllty of dota                                 gesNSIN
smgP.      eris  1960, 1970. aed lONdn.oAse.. lice of Hoosebold fr                                                           hoe a  household) - ttml. s-b-a  andtal
Poincltoc Proj ettlons                                                                        A1 housholdIcnit   f             _ogru  of iadvi~fas she share ltiag   uarer
Porlat   m yar000  -  urrntpopulutlon prleo.tioes are bae  om. d     1981          end their si. meal.  A hoarder or lodger my or my set he iselded i
toto1 popoltior byaggose  an    et  notliyad fertilIty rt.                                elehousehold for stuLitelol yP.......
Frojotio paamter  for moltliy rles. tomprie oforelvl   su'                                ore ae f trrensro  rom lnta.1  -eb.sa-,                        rl     roaae'
img life eupeott-cy at birth    raemgwth cutry's e.                 gtnbos                hro   oce   e  eons,pito all1 tea,ad coral renuptd ooavtloae
levl,an  femal  life empeoeo u-rehlioiag at 77.1 pages.  The par-                       welIgs  repetvey                 beliugs  -tlud  aM-D,emsst emrtsmrs  sa
meters for fertIlIty rt   tlnhn   heec e1s-1              ame  d-liee In                   umottpled perte.
fer.tilt   ocoordb.g to inom     .evlad poet family pla-notg perfos-mamo.               niece.n..    etio l      eo-rret.of doalta)- os.  cam   n  roal -
Roth i..mory is theeaslee   esof those nine corbietione of eortality                       Comecoa   wlIg  wihe               "t'ly  o1.            urer   aprstg
and fertIlity  trends for peojeottte   orpoesa.                    of Lotut, orbee, aod ral ..   dwellings regp-oiv-ly .
Statious.   eoruloeI.ioe-DLeetatton y popolatiom  there is n  greotb siee
the bIrth rate is eqan1 ti the doeth rome  an d also the ng   tutusC-                 fOCTO
_ius   _ntegi.  This is arhievd only aftoo fertility rune  dor..n   tO                  Adoee  tuoLOo  gto
Eoe replocem t leve  of -nin net r-prodotion rate, efoso.toah getotaion                    Prmy    tro -Ete.1 mal end fem1o - Ge.e. totel, ma. tsad female
ofwmorplos  Itef ..e.rtly,  The etatto ty popuIlaionae    a                              nooano   l   gso  the  eimey Osel a  pretsgso   apof
seie    nthebaset  f  h  projarned esatnalsof the population                         pesryshool-ago populations; ugesly iselodes ohildsm  age  6-11
in the yee  2000, urd the rate of dorllie of fertility rts to  elo                           years hut ndjasted for diffree   Isagnh  of petase  stegtismi foe
Y-   t!ti-ly P.u.ti..1. l-h.  - Th.y-   h-  t.ti...    p.p.ooiuonrieseinb amoverea  eduran.oti  oselmem   sey  -msa  100 paceem
Oea attinar  roolnir  isreche  -  heyea  nhn  natonoy   ryoatle         ince som  ppi1s are bole  or abm    the offi.otl sebse1 age.
sloe hoe been reached.                                             ~~~~~~~Seonadony ..hro  -  otl  _s and femle          - Coptd  nao.; eseostee
Poouno  tnity                                                                              odo-ti-nrequires st Il..ee fou  y-sr  of appeerd primac  inetnetle;
Per s. fk. - Mid-y-a  yoputotlon yer sq-ur  kilomtre  (100 he-troe  of                         proides ge...el,l voostiema, oe cegoho  tratalog  InsrotInta  for pepf
tota  area                                                                                    usuaI.d-1, d.    b     1d..lly of 12 tc 10 Year  of ago; -rrepond-aensee  segneel
only.                                                                                      Vuoutiomal eorllmeot feretof  -enoed"e  - Voretfomo  isteltu ei-
opolur.ion Age Strounure (eerienn   - Childre  (0-14l yeare)  weeklog-age  (10-                   include terhitral, ledosnohal  oeth"r pengrm   hbtb oP-rc  indapa-'
64 y-sr), sad vetired (h5 years sod ove) seyroeP             geofmd-ye-  pOpO-                 dently or as deparmnt f e               loay tastitumim.
ten lon; 1960, 190,ad 190 dR os                                                               Puo-oehrole-pise,ademsd                               - Total etodamme smee1led I
Ppulation Grnoth Dt  pret      oa               nulgot   ae  of total mid-                      primary aed scendaey level  divided hy stbses of taaeher  JA tbs
yeari. populations fl or  950-60, 1960-70, eod 1970-78.                                        oerrespediog levels.
Poouto _Inth Pnet feen_en) -urban - Annual g-wb rates rf urban popo-                     Adult literacy rote (p-roe) - Literat  adolts (able to coed ad -it-Is)
Istione foe 1900-60, 1960-70, and 1970-7N8sprecg    ftoa,dl   ouaimagd1   sr   n   vr
Crude fOrth Date free thousand) - Annuel Line birtho  per thousand of aid-poor.o   .t1dI   ..lto    .   5   -                                                      d-T
prpilat in.; 1960, 1970. and 197W  data .CNONSUMTION
Crode Death Rate leer nh....d) - Annua  deaths Per thousa..d of mid-year                    Pa...enger Car  leer thoucad eteulottim   - P-saage   -aseeetsms
,.:popolanlon; 1960, 1900, end.1909 deta.                                                     tassetngls  thnolh    .nae   -elado   -o1aaeea. ho--s  sad
her goeo'l rpeooiepenl   if sh  speionces prose...n aS-sp-eot to I er                               ..de  i-ete- free thousand perpleti-r  - All types of es..I..e. fee edtb
nil toy ratee; uually t ho-yea  sonrego  endin  in 1960, 1970, and 1970.                     booodcsets to gemorol publio Per ibeocad of popolatiom; sooldee   ml-1
PeIl YleoLna- A-.tierua  Anua  (thousan.ds)I- Annual number of --tpynor                        ce.sod  --rolnco  in, toontole  and.in years wham regiscroino   of eadi. sew
of biih-ountol.  drvieuder  Iupoe   f nattu..  famIliy ploIOfn progra-                       sein offtot; dn. for recet  peer  my nt be     P . blcget  sisa met
Pualyr ylaooiegC r  (p__cctoftare  aon(                     otontgo  of moecied                coutries ebnlioed lloomslg.
wnoof  hIbid-bearing age (15-44 pe-ro  oho  be thtt-intru1 deofceu  tu                 TiVnrtnr  (oc  th_odcylalm       Vencve   o    odeti
allD AND rrielomeen   noon age grou.                                                           generl1 public pnr thou... d poplttion; saides oniteesd TVesave
PODADN TDI?ON t        a   aIa199-T10      ne   f  o   aiae.ul                            in ....nrion end to pears  h.n  -egisnestibn  of 1ff eat wa  in  ffert.
969-71-100     Ind.. ofNemneree-io-upttonleertihooeond epetm)- Sh-w  the oveage  iesie
loden of FoodZion of "dily geme.oll ineetnwppe-                                                                                                   eie          preia   a-
productIon of all foid consdltios.  Prndu-inonrl1udesoend and feed nmd                       lic-tiom  devoted primarily no  erordieg genec1 ace.  It Es nanid-rs
iso -clndrperboolt.. Crendit in  cove  primaygus(.g   uana                           to ho "detly" if tt appears at leas.t Portms_               eb
Insea   of nogu( oithor  ediblcoe.diout.nalntl t(e.g. coffee end                          Cinem  Annu1al tendance Pec Cerita oe Ysa-Eas...d em the same of
tea ilnn ecludedl , A'glgrgtn  productIon of each coun try is base.d 00                      ticets sold duriog the pear, including odaissle    to drov-fr efrne
manIrma  averag  producer price ceighte; 1961-hi, 1970,. nd l97N date,                       andmoie nts
For  eoio srrl  of  uloicoIreter  of  rcieetl- Computed fronbl._,
enegy  ~uvulnt  f  et  ondeupitceo ilabt       In.   . touty Per  Pto le     LABOR FRoEt
per doy.  Avo!llbLo supplies  -oprtse doneoti  prduction, imPorto Iem.                  Inta1 Labor Fcc  (thi...ands( - Econoically actIve per-m. i-olding
mporte, and hcbgnge  in nt-k.  Not ouPppi e  nitlde animal feed, eeede,                   amdfre   n   tnpno    u   oldo    ennis,soan.ae
qoantitee usd in food ploten.tng , ond 1one  in distributio.,   ee.quire-                efimolc .. oor  Onus coudnbtrn are noti. chpoab -       198g.d 190  aed
atswresimated by FAC, base d on phyniologire1 meeda  u  nra  ottO-                 0970~ dt..In-         _                     o   .'=      ; 6.190-
ity andihealth  oneie inN eJ.       ooetleprauc  body orighs  ae                         reae_    rrcn) - 1P.l 1ehor forte ae pe-cetags of totallae b.   ores..
end. sh, dt-rhulo   of populatIon,  an   loig1   ecnifroset                              Arclnr   noet                  t o  forte in farIng, foreetry, hmtifg sod
househol   loel t116. 170  ad.1907 dnto                                                     fiebtig eepercetea   of voca  labor fns; 1960. 1970 and 1978l dat.
Pe  cniu  urlyof Irtellasordoyl - Pro tciu  -oet-  of per inyit.                     nutyfrrot    LabrfreI                    iig   oernto,smsetea
not euppy o f  Ind per dey.  Oct supply of food On definod       obuve   cc-               and eetrct, eate  ond gene  peeeaeof total 1ohor 8 -re   1960,
qo Lmn ot for   ..loutries established by USDA provide for minion,                  1900 cud 1908 ldaro,
alwneof 80 gRem  of total protein per day and 20 free  of animal and               Paroocororons Date  pn )-ttl.ae   o  female - Partioiistoom  ge
pulse protein, vf obiob 10 gRae should be  nima1 protein.  These etand-                    activity rates ar       ptda   oa, mal,ad fml  eo     emm
aroev   owrthnthose uP 00 lgran  of total proteIn aud 23 gRat   f                    renusf      I tornt, ado ad  female.1  p1aaso    f           1oam    aat-ey
aerlponn"         so   vrg  for th  on-ld, Propose.d by FA0 in the Tird                   p96'  19.    d   75d.               h....IL.  -ipti -t                   fltg
World Pond Su-ry; 1961-hi, 1970 end 1977 de.ta,                                            16,17,ad10   oe    hs   r  IOspeilalnpcnefst
Per  .Pit. rni  soyfrma Ima   n   ue       rtl   upyo nd                       d do-         eg-us  stut nee of the I~popu:tami, and long time trend.  A   - si ati-
.l.t.i.   fl-  .i-               -pply of foomdte  ar  frm mtical odreg
cloed from  umimal  end pulses in gran  Per dsy; 1961-hi, 1970 and 1900 data.    foi  ecdeyltn-Rtoofpplto    ee   1ed8   o   a
Chid(gs-)Mrtlc  Rant                     the n..usan) - heAs..t dathe Per thousand in          to rho enRl1 labor ferro.
oR.geanno  1-4s y.005, to children On thIs ago group; f- or -   dov-lopiug coon
ctee. deco derived from  life teblss; 1960, 1970 and 1900 dane.                          INCOrf  DISTRIBUTION
EEALTH                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peroentage oF Pliv-oltom   (both In one  and Us1 R .e.e-d by ciehest
Life  oetmpo  grhIyao   Average nuben of Ynere of life remitola                                0 p-rcet, eloeent 2Dpecet,porem   S  eret, and p-oet 80 p-rnat
of hb....helds.
et bieth: 1960), 1900 and 1979 dare.
lof_t  lotality Raic leer ohoos..d  -Annual deenha of infamts mdcv on   -o    POVnERTY TARn  GROUPS
o.f age Per thouseod livo bilnho.                                                           Estimated Absolute Poverty Tote   Level (fiS ca   -pitne  -  ran d emee
tnete Set f Water (oroen  of eelte)-total. uoban  aniua_ .                                 AsluepvrpIcee  oe   sta    on  lee   eoXtbe      dO
N-ube  of people (coral, orba, and rua)bo reombeaces  oceo trltpom lty.iadequate  die .ptahevtim    egfndrq ireet  i   e
water supply (includes treuted  -gfoce verona or umore.tod hob         nttaiae.t                odbe
materso.      sthtfo    rnce  boreholee  erlg   amA ..sit.ry wele) s                       Etimated Relaivei Povety 1-nm  Level (fUS0 p-  eta      mbmtdec
pecenaescfteI  rspctvepp        u Icoe    onur baslreaapublic                           rsl1 r-latt- poverty inoom   1-v1 Is ome-rhird of snraspe oft
fonano   toedpost  octnd eoIt r  o            "r00atere from  a   -ae  maybe          perom    incom   of the coutry.  Urban leve  is derived foa  the  _sel
_...er .atheo  w.Ith inprly   uhieaieno   h hhotath.              ural  reis           leve  itoh adjuetmet fur hibie   toot of living in urameas
r..s.nobl  acesml    ml  ta   h             oswfe or mebers of nho ha..sehold              8toinated Ip..ulation Nelo  Absolute Pnstv loIne L-v-' (paceat) - ucba
do non hone to spend    diopropoorin...ne port of the day in fenchiog thi                     n   ua      ctn   fppltu    uba   o   omleoaeebnaspee
fai I'5wtr  needet.
dienel  e  erensgs  f.thein reapec tins poPulsminue.  fEcesct  di.-                                                  fEog-ir ad Snofo  Dits DlyOem
poslap  nld  the    1 coletio       0odde        Is   ric   or  ithoot                                                    .-mmee  DnoI. Wolysim  sod Pejmemtomc Depaeest
of huma  secrte sed  wsemnrby wtec-bnrae sytemt   or thn em  of                                                                              ctohr18
pit prves d similarloseltne



30.                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.2 million (uid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  $1,120 (1979)
Amount                                            -       Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                   Actual (at 1972 prices)                         Projected (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                               at current prices)
1979                 1975    1976    1977    1978    1979./            1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Groes domestic product k/                  7080.0                  8.1     7.4      4.3      8.3      6.9            8.0      7.2     6.6      6.4     6.6
Agriculture                              984.7                  3.9     5.2    -7.5       8.6     0.5            8.0      7.6      3.1      3.1     3.1
Industry                                1982.0                  7.4     7.8      7.0     9.1      8.4           11.6      8.5      8.5     8.0      8.0
Services                                3102.9                10.6      5.4      5.8      7.7     8.4            6.6      6.2      6.5     6.5      6.5
Consumption                                5440.3                  2.7      8.8     9.5      9.3      6.0            7.8      9.9    10.0      6.9     9.1
Gross investment                           2069.0                 20.2    16.9      5.8      6.6      9.7            7.2      3.1    -2.9      1.3     0.1
Exports of goods and GNFS                  2655.6                  5.0      9.6     5.6      9.1    12.6             5.0     4.1      7.4      7.3     8.8
Imports of goods and GNFS                  3084.9                  2.2    19.3    16.5    10.2       8.5             4.6      7.5     7.5      4.6     9.6
Gross national product                     7030.7                  8.6      6.0     4.8      9.1      6.3            7.8      7.2     6.5      6.4      6.6
Gross national savings                                            22.5    -6.3    -1.7    21.2    35.8              17.6    -0.9    -4.1       7.6     0.8
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                     134.2   137.7   151.4   158.6   171.9               -       -        -        -       -
txchange rate                                                      2.49    2.33    2.33    2.40    2.46
Share of GDP at market prices (2)                    Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1979    1985                     1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Gross domestic product                                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                        8.5         6.5         6.6
Agriculture                                                   16.7   18.2       13.9    13.1                       8.8        1.3         3.7
Industry                                                      20.5   27.1       28.0    29.2                      9.0         7.8         8.1
Services                                                      49.3   42.7       43.8    43.2                      8.7         6.6         6.4
Consumption                                                       84.8   75.5      76.8    82.8                       8.6         8.3         9.0
Gross Investment                                                  19.7   29.3      29.2    20.9                      11.8         6.5       -0.4
Exports of goods and GNFS                                         21.9   31.3      37.5    40.3                      12.5       12.2          6.9
Imports of goods and GNFS                                         26.4   36.1      43.6    44.0                      11.3       12.7          7.4
Gross national product                                            97.9   99.9      99.3    99.4                       8.7         6.5         6.7
Net factor income                                                  2.1    0.1       0.7      0.6                       -           -           -
Gross national savlngs                                            13.2   24.3      22.4    17.9                       7.5         5.9       -1.7
As X GDP
(at current prices)
1970      1975       1979 a/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                        23.5       25.7      33.3
Current expenditure                                    20.4       19.9      24.4
Surplus (t) or deficit (-)                              3.1        5.9        9.0
Capital expenditure                                     9.5       10.8       13.5
Foreign financing                                       5.0        1.8       1.6
1970-75              1975-79               1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                     8.7                  6.5                   6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                          6.3                   3.9                  4.2
ICOR                                                    2.6                  4.3                   4.0
Marginal savings rate                                  30.5                  17.6                  0.0
Import elasticity                                       1.24                 2.01                  1.12
*/ Estimate.
b/ GDP at market prices and componehts, at factor cost.
M6ENA CP 2C
October, 1980



- 31 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 sf 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP per Capital  $1,120 (1979)
Amount                                               Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                 Actual (at 1972 prices)                         Projected (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                             at current prices)
1979                1975    1976    1977    1978    1979            1980    1981    1982    1983    1981
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                      1762.6                -9.0      5.8    -5.0    16.0    10.1            6.1      1.3     7.1     6.8      9.'
Crude oil                              800.0                27.7   -15.0      1.9    14.0    91.3           11.6   -4.5       9.0     8.6     0.t
Other primary                          123.0               -26.7    21.8  -17.9    34.7    10.0            -11.7      5.8     2.7     2.6     2.!
Manufactures                           839.6               -14.6    37.2   -1.5    21.9    14.8              1.3      6.3     6.0     5.7    18.E
Merchandise imports                      2827.3                -0.4    13.6    30.4      5.5    11.7            4.3      7.6     7.7     4.6    10.(
Food                                   358.9                 7.7  -13.5    25.5    11.1    22.2              7.2     9.9    10.0      6.0     8.
Petroleum                              493.5                43.1  -24.8    -8.5    -3.9    25.7             -9.8    11.0    12.5   -3.4    37.(
Machinery and equipment                704.8                33.3    19.1      2.4     5.2  -11.0            -1.3      1.3     0.0     1.3     0.(
Others                                1270.2                -8.0    31.2    36.0      2.9    14.1            9.9     9.0      9.1     7.3     8.:
Price Index (1972 - 100)                       Price Index (1977 - 100)
PRICES
Export price index                         -                  191.0   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9           196.4   218.8  241.2   264.2   293.,
Import price index                                            170.4   163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6           146.6   160.7   175.4   187.4   203.]
Terms of trade index                                          112.1   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3           134.0   136.2   137.5   141.0   144.1
Composition of Merchandise Trade (1)                 Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current Prices)                               (at constant Prices)
1970      1975      1979       1985               1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Exports                                                      100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0                 11.6         9.4        6.1
Crude oil                                                  24.5      41.8       45.3      54.9                 23.2        3.0         0.0
Other primary                                              21.2      18.0        7.1       5.2                  6.7         2.0        3.0
Manufactures                                               54.3      40.2       47.6      39.9                  6.2        14.3        9.9
Imports                                                       100.0    100.0      100.0     100.0                 13.4        12.4        7.6
Food                                                        20.6     15.8       12.7      17.9                  8.9        7.5         8.8
Petroleum                                                    4.0      9.8       17.5      22.6                 36.5       23.2        14.5
Machinery and Equipment                                     23.0     30.2       24.9      27.6                 15.7        8.3        -0.1
Others                                                      52.4     44.2       44.9      31.9                 10.6       13.2         8.4
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)         Developing Countries (X)         Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (E)
1970     1975      1979          1970      1975       1979             1970       1975      1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                      62.6      48.6      74.1          23.4      41.4      n.a.              14.0       10.0      n.a.
Imports                                      62.9      67.1      73.5          33.7      25.7      n.a.               3.4        7.2      n.a.



ANNEX I
32                                                              Page 6of 6
TUUNISLA B BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Populatlon:        6.2 million (mid-1979)
GMP Per Capita:  $1,120 (1979)
Actual                                                     Prolected
1970         1975          1976          1977         1978           1978SL       1980        1981       1982        1983       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net emports of goods & services           -104.5        -208.8        -417.1        -567.0       -599.7        -478.5        -350.8    -499.5    -567.2    -427.8    -744.7
Exports of goods & services              355.6       1,529.2      1,479.4       1,695.5       2,090.6       2,913.9       3,548.4    4,062.4    4,746.0   5,503.1   7,384.3
Imports of goods 6 services              460.1      1,738.0       1,896.5       2,262.5       2,690.3       3,392.4       3,899.2   4,561.9   5,313.2   5,930.9    8,129.0
Net transfers                                53.0          47.4         52.8          46.4          33.6          31.0          36.0       36.0       36.1        36.1       36.1
Current acco.tnt balance                   -51.5        -161.4        -364.3        -520.6        -566.1       -447.5        -314.8    -463.5    -531.1    -391.7    -708.5
Direct private Investment                    25.5          50.2        102.6          92.3          91.1         164.8        181.3       199.4      219.3       241.3      292.0
MLT loans (net)                              43.4        124.5         161.1         557.1         468.6         383.0        324.0       346.9      405.7       227.6      559.7
Official                                  41.7         102.9         131.5         286.7        184.8         256.8         364.9      366.4       397.4      328.6       280.0
Private                                    1.7          21.6          29.6         270.4        283.8         126.2         -40.9      -19.5         8.3    -101.0        279.7
Other capital                                 2.0        -53.0          58.6        -185.5          41.4          32.4           -          -          -           -           -
Change in reserves                         -19.4          39.7          42.0          56.7         -35.0       -132.7        -190.4       -82.8      -93.9       -77.2    -143.3
International reserves                       15.4        347.5         304.5         247.8         282.8        415.5         605.9       688.8      782.7       859.9   1,134.7
Reserves as months of Imports                 0.4           2.4           1.9          1.3           1.3           1.5           1.9        1.8         1.8        1.7        1.7
Actual
1970      1975      1976       1977      1978      19791t'
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                                    43.0       50.2      53.2       47.3      32.7      31.0
Qross disbursements of MIT loans                                    88.8    191.8    227.2    646.7    575.1    661.6
4-Concesslonal                                                      45.2    100.1    108.7    179.4    182.5    279.6
Ocher msultilateral                                               1.0        5.5        -        0.3        7.6      12.7
Bilateral                                                        41.3      82.0       99.8    172.5    174.1    266.7
IDA          _                                                    2.9      12.6        8.9       5.6        0.8       0.2
Non-toncessional                                                   43.6       91.7    118.5    468.3    392.6    382.0
Private                                                          33.1       49.8      52.2     311.8    334.8    243.0
Official export credits                                           1.3       15.0      16.5    100.6        12.0      16.3
I8RD                                                              9.2      26.9       25.3      47.5      33.0       55.4
Other multilateral                                                 -          -       24.5       8.4       12.8      67.3
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Ostatanding and Disbursed                                    544,8  1,038.9  1,175.2  1,780.1  2,358.9  2,893.9
Official                                                        370.9    862.2    987.5  1,308.6  1,567.1  1,931.3
1BRD                                                           70.1    109.8    127.9    167.3    189.4    232.0
IDA                                                            36.7      55.3       64.1      66.8      67.4       67.3
Other                                                         264.1    697.1    795.5  1,074.5  1,310.3  1,632.0
Private                                                         173.9    176.7    187.7        471.5    791.8    962.6
Undisbursed debt                                                   308.9    725.3  1,260.4  1,551.5  1,708.9  1,569.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                                         63.2    101.6    104.6       143.7    201.6    310.3
Interest                                                         17.8      35.1       38.7      53.9      95.0    142.0
Payments as 7 exports                                               17.8       6.7       7.1        8.5       9.6      10.7
Payments as 2 GNP                                                    4.4       2.4        2.4       2.8       3.4       4.4
Average interest rate on new Loans (2)                                -        3.9        5.1       6.2       7.1        6.3
Official                                                           -         3.3       4.3       4.7        4.8       6.3
Private                                                            -         6.7       8.0        7.7       9.8        -
Average maturity of new loans (years)                                 -       24.0      20.7       16.3      14.9      19.4
Official                                                           -       27.1       23.9      21.4       19.5      19.4
Private                                                            -         9.1       8.9      10.7        9.4        -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
Amortisatron due within 5 years                                                          49.0
Amortinatios doe within 10 years                                                         92.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                                            6.5
a/ Estimates.



ANNEX II
- 33                                                 Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                  Amount (less
Credit                                                                                   Cancellation)
Number   Year            Borrower                    Purpose                       Bank    IDA b/   Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                     162.36   60.47
238     1971  Republic of Tunisia              Population                                   4.80      1.14
858     1972  Republic of Tunisia              Tourism Infrastructure             14.00               2.52
937     1973  Republic of Tunisia              Urban Planning & Public            11.00               1.42
Transportation                    -
1029     1974  Republic of Tunisia              Hotel Training                      5.60              0.39
1042     1974  Compagnie des Phosphates         Phosphate Development              23.30               1.19
et Chemin de Fer de GAFSA
1068     1974  Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Rehabilitation          12.20              4.73
1088     1975  Republic of Tunisia              Urban Sewerage                     28.00             12.41
1155     1975  Republic of Tunisia              Third Education                     8.60              7.36
1188     1975  Republic of Tunisia              Second Highways                    28.00             20.23
1189     1976  Banque de Developpement          Sixth Development Finance Co.   20.00                 0.66
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
238-1    1976  Republic of Tunisia              Population                                   4.80      1.12
1340     1976  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit             12.00              3.13
1355     1976  Societe Tunisienne de            Second Power                       14.50              0.62
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1431     1977  Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Development             42.00             17.15
1445     1977  SONEDE                           Fourth Water Supply                21.00             14.88
1504     1977  BDET                             Development Finance Co.            30.00              5.85
1505     1977  Republic of Tunisia              Small-Scale Industrial Project   5.00                 3.27
1601     1978  Republic of Tunisia              Rural Roads (Third Highways)    32.00                30.02
1675     1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Sewerage              26.50             26.35
1702     1979  Societe Nationale               Fifth Water Supply                  25.00             16.81
d'Erxploitation d'Eau
1705     1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Development           19.00             18.69
1746     1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Fisheries                   28.50             28.15
1796     1980  Republic of Tunisia              Southern Irrigation                25.00             24.84
1797     1980  Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                             42.50             32.95
1841     1980  Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Highways                     36.50             36.50
1864a/   1980  Societe Tunisienne de            Second Natural Gas Pipeline        37.00             37.00
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1885 a/  1980  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit              30.00             30.00
c/      1981  Republic of Tunisia              Fourth Education                   26.00             26.00
TOTAL                                                            765.56   70.07   405.38
Of which has been repaid                                           78.38    5.13
Total now outstanding                                            687.18   64.94
Amount Sold                             14.33
of which has been repaid               11.42                      2.91
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                                684.27   64.94
Total Undisbursed                                                403.12    2.26   405.38
a/ Not yet effective
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment
c/ Not yet signed



- 34 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1981)
Amnount in U6$ Million
Year       Obligator                              Type of Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                Fertilizers                 2.0      1.5      3.5
1966   Societe Nationale d' Investissement        Development Finance Co.              0.6      0.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                            Development Finance Co.   8.0        2.2     10.2
1970   Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(bNI) now (BDET)                         Development Finance Co.              0.6       0.6
1973   Societe Touristique & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                    Tourism                     1.6     0.3       1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                            Tourism                     2.5     0.7       3.2
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor              Chemicals                            0.6      0.6
1978   BDET                                       Development Finance Co.              1.2      1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                              14.1      7.7      21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                 7.2      1.8       9.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                     6.9      5.9      12.8
Total undisbursed                                                              0.4       0.4



- 35 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:        Population Project: US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness; December 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:      Population Project:  Ub$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness;
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After many delays, construction of the maternity hospitals in
Sousse, Tunis and Sfax is completed. These facilities are expected to be
staffed and fully operational by mid-1981. The construction of the fourth
hospital at Bizerte is likely to be completed by end 1981. Twenty-five of
the 29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been com-
pleted; three are expected to be completed by mid-1981. One center (La
Hafsia) has been deleted from the project because the Government has been
unable to obtain a suitable site.
Ln. 858:        Tourism Infrastructure Project; Us$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is in its final implementation stage. The remaining
works are expected to be completed by mid-1981. Disbursements are being
made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of
October 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by October 1981. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial
changes in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to
encourage the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The
project also assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Transport (SNT) in renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improv-
ing its organization and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its
vehicles with the construction of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of
Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus
lanes and restricted parking zones, which contributed substantially to the
improvement of bus services in Greater Tunis. This, combined with an
increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus maintenance has led to an
increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by about 27 percent above
the level which would have been achieved in the absence of the project.
Ln. 1029;       Hotel Training Project; Ub$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness; November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and sousse Nord are now operational.
The training curricula have been introduced in September 1979 and extended
to all training schools in the country. Disbursements are being made only
on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 1042;       Gafsa Phosphate Project; Ub$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness; March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were
intended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company hired
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the Bank loan. The
services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing the
longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on open pit mining of an alterna-
tive deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could be
supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation of an improved cost
control system. The longwall test has not achieved a continuous good
performance. The first phase of the open pit feasibility study is
completed. The second phase will be started after completion of additional
geological and beneficiation work. Cost control in the company is still
inadequate.
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  Ub$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness; September 18,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for the marketing
center in Nebhana for which bids are called again after the previously
successful bidder went bankrupt. In the Medjerda area, land reform is
progressing slowly, and farmers are lagging behind in their contributions
to the investment costs. In Nebhana, the land consolidation program



- 37 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
is developing well and farmers have been settled on nearly 65 percent of the
total area. OMVVM continues to encourage large owners to improve cultiva-
tion of land, and marked progress has been reported in the distribution of
medium and short-term credit. Progress in construction and rehabilitation
of irrigation, drainage and road networks continues to be satisfactory.
Production of early vegetable under greenhouses in the Nebhana is encourag-
ing.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by
untreated sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a
land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in
progress.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date;
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily; designs for the
extension of the five teacher training colleges have been approved and
invitations for local bidding are scheduled for April 1981. Equipment
procurement for the teachers' colleges and the TM centers is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been
completed. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in Nabeul. Construction
works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have started. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning and Finance,
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items, except for Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of



- 38 -                                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
expropriation which may result in deleting this element from the project.
The final report of the transport coordination study has been completed.
The Government is now reviewing the consultants recommendations, and has
agreed to set up a transport planning unit.
Ln. 1189:       Sixth Development Finance Company Project;  US$20 million
loan of January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness; June 7,
1976; Closing Date: (Original) June 30, 1980; (Current)
March 31, 1981.
BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three years in
the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial
practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly
important role in financing industrial development, extending about one-
third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Disbursements are being made only on commitments prior to March 31, 1981.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
About 75 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed from the
Third Agricultural Credit project. Disbursements in Categories 1, 2 and 4 -
subloans to small and medium farmers, commercial farmers and agro-industrial
investors - are progressing rapidly. They will commence shortly in Category
3, subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations, after BNT and Government have approved six subprojects. The
Closing Date may have to be extended to December 31, 1981.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date;
June 30, 1981.
The Project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines
have been commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties
in operating the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack
of spare parts. The energy pricing study has been extended in scope to
include an overall assessment of the country's energy resources and is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1981.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The



ANNEX II
- 39 -                                    Page 7 of 9
new railroad, including superstructure, is now completed and will soon be
operational. After some initial delays, construction of the Medjerda-Cap
Bon interconnection canal is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the proj-
ect is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule. Having increased the average water rates in 1979 by
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
satisfactory for the next two years.
Ln. 1504/1505;  Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The $5 million loan to the Government is fully committed, as is the
$28 million component to BDET. The $2 million earmarked for the financing
of SSI extensions is half committed. Disbursements are in line with
appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority in its
financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the commercial banks'
initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing has been over-
come. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities
toward setting up a network of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance
experts, specifically catering to the needs of SSI, as agreed under the
project.
Ln 1601:        Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the provinces to be
covered under the project. The Government wishes to accelerate implementa-
tion so as to complete construction works by end-1982. Progress on the
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                                    Page 8 of 9
Ln 1675:        Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceed-
ing. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln 1702:        Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1981.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily. Civil works have started on two Tunis sites
and one Sfax site and service areas. All technical work on the civil works
component is progressing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded. Detailed
design for the boats has been delayed due to delays in contract finalization
with the consultants. Engines are being procured under ICB; analysis of
bids is still in progress.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project. Bidding documents and bids have been reviewed by the
Bank for procurement of asbestos-cement pipes.



ANNEX II
- 41 -                                   Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1797;       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
The contracts for civil works have been awarded. Work has now
commenced at La Goulette after delays in agreement on an acceptable location
of a site for depositing material to be dredged from the project area. No
work has yet commenced at Sfax due to delays in moving the Chantiers Navals
from their present location to the new fishing harbor nearby, and checking
of final design. Consultants to supervise the works at Sfax have been
appointed.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness:  November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well and according to
schedule. All the elements of the 1981 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have now been received and reviewed.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 22,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project is
being redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute to premium liquid
fuel products. Amendment to legal documents is under preparation.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and agroindustries.
The loan is not yet effective, pending receipt of the legal opinions.



- 42 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                               22 months (January 1978 to
November 1979)
(b) The agency which prepared the
project:                                   Ministry of Public Health
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank:                                  June 1977
(d) Departure of appraisal missions:           November 1979 and May 1980
(e) Negotiations completed:                    April 20, 1981
(f) Loan effectiveness planned:                September 10, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Special Condition of Effectiveness
The appointment of the Director of Basic Health Services with
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank (para. 50).
2. Other Special Conditions
(a) By March 31, 1982, conclusion of contract for additional computer services
with the National Computer Center, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 49).
(b) By December 31, 1981, acquisition of all project sites in urban areas
(paras. 51 and 53).
(c) Timely completion of revised curricula for paramedical training and their
implementation in all paramedical schools and universities (para. 54).



- 43 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Maintaining of a Project Coordination Unit, properly staffed and vested
with adequate powers (para. 59).
(e) By March 31, 1982, establishment of a Health Advisory Committee (para. 59).
(f) By January 31, 1984, preparation of a mid-term evaluation report
(para. 60).






0v A5                                                        oiBLAQILT                       tBA
ATEU                                                                   37-t ABEL 
cRIB~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EII
36'~~~~~~V
s I   A ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~        I
- :                                                     0:    . 0 0 0; C : S 00 t G436,tet  3 = =;  ;, . .t 0u r 0; a; 0: =; E 0 ; ;00 ;'  H  n GI a I     I=
jj~ ~~~~2
HEALTH AND POPUL~THAATO
=roieci Area     AG:. 5 S E R I N
-35'                  -     M c          n  B      r                                                                A
.         ERlAl4A                                                                                % D| BU D XD7It A E     \  >;   s  1':ss=
Paramedical Schools to be RemodeledS S
o  Under the project                                              ME   ~~~~ EMNINE
0      G                         A A                       R =  C A
f°,                      HO   nion   Aots 7A ,   . l, =
HEALTH AND POPULATION   R/E/tEl                                                                                                        f
PROJECT                                                       1KEDDAH                     /7 
PSaect Area                                                      \      GHOUMRAc                         v- it
-33'                  --   R Medical Re gio  Boud driesev eA
*  Medical Schools/                                                                                                          't
Param dical Schools to be Rermodeled                       /               M    E    /             I N  E v ' '<
cl Under the Project                           t rNsA         w 
O      Medical Regions Capitals                 ,X/5
st    Governorate Capitals                               FR   C          
-        Governorate Boundories           0               0
Povwed Roods                                                                                                                          CO4/ 
Earth and Gravel Roads                                  2         X,             
-      R ciluicys                                               0/ /OREMADA
+  I nternat i ona l A,r Irport s                                           )h--p- YVol fJ m                i pff,I,PsPPpio
_ ,Salt Lakes                                                                    (                      ,d=  -m    ftow  htst}c 
-32'                   --~- R ivers                                                                       g                   h emnam   dad er
- - International Boundaries         0      7       40     oo      80      YOo                                  lh' p-0 mw  lNe hrtfh 
KILOMETERS                                        /uAvmini m   Ahe  Ii Pi ssIS
3'                                    9'                 1IDna °' ,vtd i,P vf Y   pdh P miCth 'o,Io D



