                         INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                                     APPRAISAL STAGE

Report No.:
Date preparedlupdated: March 26,2007

I. Basic Information

1. Basic Project Data
Country: Senegal                                 Project ID: P102478
                                                 AdditionalProject ID (ifany):
Project Name: SupportingAccess to On-site Sanitation Servicesthrough OBA Schemesin
Senegal
Task Team Leader: Sylvie Debomy
Estimated Appraisal Date: nla                    Estimated Board Date: nla
Managing Unit: AFTU2                             Lending Instrument: Global Partnership on
                                                 Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) Grant
Sector: Water Supply and Sanitation
Theme: Access to urban servicesto the poor
IBRD Amount (US$m.):
IDA Amount (US$m.):
GEF Amount (US$m.):
PCF Amount (US$m.):
Other financing amounts by source: Grant of US$7.7 million by the Global Partnership on
Output-BasedAid (GPOBA)
EnvironmentalCategory: B
Is this a transferred project                    Yes [ 1                  No [XI
Simplified Processing                             Simple [ ]              Repeater ]:
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (EmergencyRecovery)              Yes [ 1       No [XI

2. Project Objectives:

The objective of the proposed project will be to support an output-based aid component for the
delivery of sanitation services aiming at expanding access to on-site sanitation services to poor
households in precarious neighborhoods of Dakar in a sustainable manner. This would be
achieved by increasing the number of on-site facilities and semi-collectiveneighborhood system
building on lessons learned fiom the experience and mechanisms developed in the Long term
Water Supply Project (LTWSP). Current approaches for sanitation in Senegal already involve
some OBA-type approaches. This project is a continuity of the LTSWP sanitation component
and will use the same technologies, mechanisms and implementation arrangements in the same
poor neighborhoods of Dakar. The project's support is sought to improve the overall OBA
design and to increase access to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.

3. Project Description:

The proposed OBA project will support the construction of on-site sanitation facilities for about
20,000 households in poor neighborhoods in Dakar who have already expressed their demand
and whose request has been already financially and technical appraised by NGOs in the
framework of the LTWSP. Improved methods to target subsidies specifically to poor households
and to specific parts of the facilities will be tested. Beneficiary households are requested to
contribute financially to the costs of the facilities upfront. Payments to the NGOs are issued
once the outreach targets are fulfilled and to the contractors once outputs (facilities) are verified
by an independent entity and 10percent of the contractor's payments are retained for one year as
a guarantee of the works.

The project will also investigate technical, financial and institutional issues to be considered for
implementing OBA approaches for the management of small bore and condominium sewerage
(semi-collectif) on a pilot scheme.

Implementation arrangements would follow the one developed under the LTSWP with the main
Sanitation Utility (ONAS) and the Executing agency (AGETIP). ONAS will have the overall
fiduciary responsibility for environmental compliance; ONAS will delegate this responsibility to
AGETIP.

4. ProjectLocation and salient physical characteristicsrelevantto the safeguard analysis:

The project activities will be located in the peri-urban neighborhoods of Dakar in the
municipality of Pikine.

5. Environmental and Social SafeguardsSpecialistson the Team:

Yves PrCvost, Senior Environmental Specialist (AFTS4)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered (pleaseexplain why)                          Yes             No
EnvironmentalAssessment (OPIBP 4.01)                                           X
Natural Habitats (OPIBP 4.04)                                                                X
Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                                         X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                    X
Physical Cultural Resources (OPIBP 4.11)                                                     X
Indigenous Peoples (OPIBP 4.10)                                                              X
InvoluntaryResettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                                                         X
Safety of Dams (OPIBP 4.37)                                                                  X
Projects on InternationalWaterways (OPIBP 7.50)                                              X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OPJBP 7.60)                                                      X

The environmental assessment (EA) for the small bore and condominium sewerage (semi-
collectif)will be conducted during project implementation. The EA will be prior reviewed by the
Bank and will identify if any other safeguard needs to be triggered. Required documentations (if
any) will be produced under the project.

11. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management

A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues

1.Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:

No land acquisition or involuntary resettlement is expected from the on-site sanitation.
Regarding the potential small bore and condominium sewerage (semi-collectif), the EA will be
conducted during project implementation and prior reviewed by the Bank.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in
the project area:

The environmental and social assessment (ESA) concludes that the potential impacts of the on-
site sanitation will be minor. The ESA concluded that no major long-term impacts are to be
expected as a result of the on-site sanitation component. These include risks of contractors not
following environmental guidelines during construction, and the management of sludges.
Regarding the small bore and condominium sewerage (semi-collectif), the environmental
assessment to be conducted during project implementation will identify potential indirect and/or
long term impacts (if any).

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize adverse
impacts:

A number of in-house sanitation options have been tested under the LTWSP, and under this
project the best technical options, with fewest specific environmental issues, were selected.

4. Describe measures taken by the Borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide an
assessment of Borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described:

As part of project preparation, the borrower conducted an Environmental and Social Assessment
(ESA) that includes an EMP that identifies measures to avoid or minimize adverse impacts that
may arise during project implementation. The project will fund the implementation of these
measures.
Measures for the on-site sanitation component include: (i) environment contract clauses to ensure
environmental compliance; (ii) capacity strengthening for implementation agencies and key
partners/stakeholders, including workshops, (iii) an initial audit of sludge management to
identify measures that the project would implement, and a second audit during implementation to
assess performance.
On the potential small bore and condominium sewerage (semi-collectif) the EMP recommends
that an environmental assessment (EA) be conducted during project implementation, and the EA
will be prior reviewed by the Bank.
The implementation Agency, the National Office for Urban Sanitation (ONAS) and the Public
Works Executing Agency (AGETIP) have received training during the implementation of the
LWSTP and, as mentioned above, they will be further strengthened during project
implementation.

 5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosureon
 safeguardpolicies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people:

 Key stakeholders include the Ministry for Prevention, Public Hygiene and Sanitation and its
 deconcentrated services - the department in charge of sanitation and urban water (DAHU),
 ONAS, and the department in charge of management and planning of water resources (DGPRE).
 Other ministries involved in the project are the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection
 (MEPN), the Ministry of Health and Medical Prevention (MSPM), the Ministry of Urban and
 Land administration (MUAT). Other key stakeholders are the local governments, the Public
 Works Executing Agency (AGETIP), targeted populations, contractors, community-based
 organizations and NGOs who are already in the urban sanitation sub-sector, in particular
 regarding capacity building, information and sensitizationand social mobilization.


 B. Disclosure Requirements Date

 Environmental Assessment/Audit/ManagementPlanlother:
   Date of receipt by the Bank                                                 0113112007
   Date of "in-country"disclosure                                              02/05/2007
   Date of submissionto InfoShop                                               02/05/2007
   For category A projects, date of distributingthe Executive
   Summaryof the EA to the ExecutiveDirectors
 Resettlement Action PlanIFrameworMPolicyProcess:
   Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not applicable
   Date of "in-country"disclosure                                            Not applicable
   Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not applicable
 Indigenous Peoples PlanIPlanning Framework:
   Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not applicable
   Date of "in-country"disclosure                                            Not applicable
   Date of submissionto InfoShop                                             Not applicable
 Pest Management Process:
   Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not applicable
   Date of "in-country"disclosure                                            Not applicable
   Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not applicable
 * If the project triggers the Pest Management andlor Physical Cultural Resourcespolicies,
 the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
 Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
 If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why:



 C.ComplianceMonitoring Indicators at the CorporateLevel (tobefilled in when theISDS is
finalized by theproject decision meeting)

IOPIBP4.01 - Environment      Assessment

Does the project require a stand-aloneEA (including       Yes [XI  No[ 1   NlA [ I
EMP) report?
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector  Yes
Manager (SM) review and approvethe EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilitiesfor the EMP          Yes
incorporated in the creditlloan?
OPIBP 4.04 Natural Habitats
              -
Would the project result in any significantconversion or  Yes [ ]  No[ 1   N/A [X ]
degradation of critical natural habitats?
If the project would result in significantconversion or
degradation of other (non-critical)natural habitats, does
the project include mitigation measures acceptableto the
Bank?
OP 4.09 Pest Management
          -
Does the EA adequately address the pest management        Yes [ ]  No[ 1   NIA [X ]
issues?
Is a separatePMP required?                                Yes [ ]  No [ 1  NIA [X ]
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a
safeguards specialist or Sector Manager? Are PMP
requirements included in project design? If yes, does the
project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
OPIBP 4.11 -Physical Cultural Resources
Does the EA include adequate measures related to          Yes [ 1  No[ 1   NIA [X ]
cultural property?
Does the creditlloan incorporatemechanisms to mitigate
the potential adverse impacts on physical cultural
resources?
OPIBP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples
              -
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning           Yes [ 1  No[ 1   NIA [X ]
Framework (as appropriate)been prepared in
consultationwith affected IndigenousPeoples?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for
safeguardsor Sector Manager review the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP,has the
design been reviewed and approved by the Regional
Social DevelopmentUnit?
OPIBP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
              -
Has a resettlementpldabbreviated pldpolicy                Yes [ 1  No[ 1   N/A [X ]
frameworWprocessframework (as appropriate)been
prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for
safeguardsor Sector Manager review and approvethe
pldpolicy frameworWprocessframework?
OPIBP 4.36 -Forests
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional  Yes [ ]  No[ 1   N/A [XI
issues and constraintsbeen carried out?

Does the project design include satisfactorymeasures to
overcome these constraints?
Does the project finance commercialharvesting, and if
so, does it includeprovisions for certification system?
OPIBP 4.37 Safety of Dams
              -
Have dam safety plans been prepared?                      Yes [ 1  No [ 1  NIA [X ]
Have the TORSas well as composition for the
independentPanel of Experts (POE) been reviewed and
approved by the Bank?
Has an EmergencyPreparedness Plan (EPP) been
prepared and arrangementsbeen made for public
awareness and training?
OPBP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways
              -
Have the other riparians been notified of the project?    Yes [ 1  No [ J  NIA [X ]
If the project falls under one of the exceptionsto the
notification requirement, has this been cleared with the
Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared
and sent?
What are the reasons for the exception? Please explain:
Has the RVP approved such an exception?

OPBP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas
              -
Has the memo conveying all pertinent informationon the Yes [ ]     No[ 1   NIA [ XI
international aspects of the project, includingthe
procedures to be followed, and the recommendationsfor
dealing with the issue, been prepared
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer
referred to in the OP?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguardpolicies documentsbeen sent to     Yes [X ]  No[ 1   N/A [ I
the World Bank's Infoshop?
Have relevant documentsbeen disclosed in-countryin a      Yes
public place in a form and languagethat are
understandable and accessibleto project-affectedgroups
and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactorycalendar, budget and clear institutional Yes
responsibilities been prepared for the implementationof
measures related to safeguardpolicies?
Have costs related to safeguardpolicy measures been       Yes
included in the project cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the          Yes
project include the monitoring of safeguardimpacts and
measures related to safeguardpolicies?

Have satisfactory implementationarrangementsbeen      Yes
agreed with the Borrower and the same been adequately
reflected in the project legal documents?



D. Approvals

