                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00002423



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (TF-90466 TF-90467)



                                   ON A

                                  GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.76 MILLION


                                  TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                    FOR

         SUPPORTING ACCESS TO ON-SITE SANITATION SERVICES

                 THROUGH OUTPUT-BASED AID SCHEME

                                June 27 2012




Urban and Water Sector
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2012)

                           Currency Unit = CFAF
                           US$1.00 = CFAF 528

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGETIP    Public Works Implementing Agency (Agence d’Exécution des Travaux
          d’Intérêts Publics)
BALP      Washing Facility/Soakaway Pit (Bac à Laver – Puisard)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community-Based Organization
CIK       Contribution in Kind
COGES     Condominium System Management Committee (Comité de Gestion des
          Systèmes Semi-collectifs)
DCMP      Central Department for Government Procurement (Direction Centrale des
          Marchés Publics)
DDI       Department of Debt and Investment (Direction de la Dette et de
          l’Investissement)
DFID      Department for International Development
DGIS      Netherlands Directorate-General for International Cooperation
DO        Development Objective
DP        Shower/Soakaway Pit (Douche – Puisard)
ESMP      Environmental and Social Management Plan
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report
FS        Septic Tank (Fosse Septique)
GIS       Geographic Information System
GPOBA     Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid
IEC       Information, Education, and Communication
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG       Millennium Development Goal
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OBA       Output-Based Aid
ONAS      National Sanitation Agency of Senegal (Office National de
          l’Assainissement du Sénégal)
OVR       Output Verification Report
PAMECAS   Partnership for the Mobilization of Savings and Credit in Senegal
          (Partenariat pour la Mobilisation de l’Epargne et du Crédit au Sénégal)
PAQPUD    Sanitation Program for Peri-urban Communities of Dakar (Programme
          d’Assainissement des Quartiers Périurbains de Dakar)
PELT      Long-term Water Project

                                      ii
PEP           Project Implementation Program (Programme d’Exécution du Projet)
PEPAM         Water and Sanitation Millennium Project (Programme d’Eau Potable et
              d’Assainissement du Millénaire)
PHAST         Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation
PSE           Water Sector Project
REC           Audit Report (Rapport de Réception du Projet)
REP           Project Implementation Report (Rapport d’Exécution du Projet)
RSC           Condominium Sanitation System Connection (Raccordement sur système
              Semi-Collectif)
SDE           Senegalese Water Company (Sénégalaise des Eaux)
SME           Small and Medium Enterprise
SONES         National Water Corporation of Senegal (Société Nationale de l’Eau du
              Sénégal)
TCM2F         Pour-Flush Toilet and Soakaway Pit (Toilette à Chasse Manuelle avec 2
              Fosses Puisards)
TCM2F+D       Pour-Flush Toilet and Shower/Soakaway Pit (Toilette à Chasse Manuelle
              et Douche avec 2 Fosses Puisards)
VIP           Ventilated Improved Pit Latrine
WSP           Water and Sanitation Program




All amounts originally expressed in CFA francs were systematically converted to US
dollars and, to ensure uniformity, all conversions were done at a fixed rate of US$1 =
CFAF 500 (except in the case of disbursements for which the exchange rate of the day
was applied).




                Vice President:          Makhtar Diop
                Country Director:        Vera Songwe
                Sector Director          Jamal Saghir
                Acting Sector Manager:   Alexander E. Bakalian
                Project Team Leader:     Matar Fall
                ICR Team Leader:         Matar Fall
                ICR Primary Author:      Pierre Xavier Boulenger




                                           iii
 
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
           SUPPORTING ACCESS TO ON-SITE SANITATION SERVICES
                  THROUGH OUTPUT-BASED AID SCHEME

                                              CONTENTS
A.       Basic Information.................................................................................................... v
B.       Key Dates ................................................................................................................ v
C.       Ratings Summary .................................................................................................... v
D.       Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................... vi
E.       Bank Staff .............................................................................................................. vi
F.       Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................. vi
G.       Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .............................................................. viii
H.       Restructuring ........................................................................................................ viii
I.       Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................
1.       Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .......................................... 1
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 6
3.       Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................... 16
4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 21
5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 22
6.       Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 24
7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies ....................... 26
Annex 1 – Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 28
Annex 2 – Outputs by Component.................................................................................... 31
Annex 3 – Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 35
Annex 4 – Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Process ............ 38
Annex 5 – Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................. 39
Annex 6 – Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ..................................................... 45
Annex 7 – Summary of Grantee’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 46
Annex 8 – Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 64
Annex 9 – List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 65
Map IBRD 39359




                                                               iv
 
A.     Basic Information

A. Basic Information
Country                   Senegal                 Project Name          Senegal Sanitation –
                                                                        Supporting Access
                                                                        to on-site sanitation
                                                                        through OBA
                                                                        scheme in Senegal
Project ID                P102478                 L/C/TF Number(s)      TF90466, TF90467
ICR Date                  06/27/2012              ICR Type              Core ICR
Lending Instrument        SIM                     Grantee               Government of
                                                                        Senegal
Original Total            USD5.76 million Disbursed Amount              USD5.12 million
Commitment
Environment Category: B-Partial Assessment
Implementing Agencies:
Office National de l’Assainissement du Sénégal - ONAS (Senegal National Sanitation
Office)
Agence d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêts Publics - AGETIP (Public Works
Implementing Agency)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None


B.     Key Dates

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised /
Process            Date             Process                Original Date
                                                                            Actual Date(s)
Concept            04/05/2005       Effectiveness          06/29/2007
Review
Appraisal          01/19/2007       Restructuring                           02/25/2010
Approval           07/06/2007       Mid-term Review
                                    Closing                02/28/2010       12/31/2011


C.     Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance rating by ICR
Outcome                                 Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome             Moderate
Bank Performance                        Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance                     Moderately Satisfactory




                                              v
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                      Ratings        Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry          Moderately     Government                         Moderately
                          Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
Quality of supervision    Moderately     Implementing Agency /              Moderately
                          Satisfactory   Agencies                           Satisfactory
Overall Bank              Moderately     Overall Borrower                   Moderately
Performance               Satisfactory   Performance                        Satisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation            Indicators     QAG Assessments (if                Rating
Performance                              any)
Potential Problem Project No             Quality at Entry (QEA)             None
at any time (Yes/No)
Problem Project at any    Yes            Quality of Supervision             None
time (Yes/No)                            (QSA)
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory


D.     Sector and Theme Codes

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                              100                100

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Urban services and housing for the poor                 100                100

E.     Bank Staff

E. Bank Staff
Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President                 Makhtar Diop                    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director               Vera Songwe                     Madani M. Tall
Acting Sector Manager          Alexander E. Bakalian           Eustache Ouayoro
Project Team Leader            Matar Fall                      Sylvie Debomy
ICR Team Leader                Matar Fall
ICR Primary Author             Pierre Boulenger

F.     Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from project appraisal document)
The development objective of the grant is to increase access to on-site sanitation for
households living in the Dakar region in a sustainable manner.

                                             vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

Indicator          Baseline Value  Original Target Formally              Actual Value
                                   Values (from      Revised Target Achieved at
                                   approval          Values              Completion or
                                   documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1        Number of persons with improved access to sanitation in the Dakar
                   region
Value
(quantitative or   0                 135,900            108,900           103,455
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/06/2007         02/28/2010          12/31/2011         12/31/2011
Comments           95 percent of the end-of-project target achieved (or 127 percent if
(incl. %           based on 2011 household survey results, which revealed that, in the
achievement)       project intervention areas, the average number of persons per
                   household is 12 instead of 9, as initially considered at project
                   appraisal).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

Indicator          Baseline Value   Original Target Formally              Actual Value
                                    Values (from         Revised Target   Achieved at
                                    approval             Values           Completion or
                                    documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1        Number of on-site sanitation facilities built
Value
(quantitative or   0                 15,100             12,100            11,495
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/06/2007         02/28/2010         12/31/2011       12/31/2011
Comments           95 percent of the end-of-project target achieved
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2        Average subsidy per facility
Value
                                     US$54 per          US$54 per         US$45.4 per
(quantitative or   0
                                     capita             capita            capita
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/06/2007         02/28/2010        12/31/2011         12/31/2011
Comments           119 percent of the end-of-project target achieved (level of subsidy
(incl. %           provided is 19 percent below the initial target).
achievement)


                                            vii
G.    Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
      Date ISR
No.                            DO                            IP               Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
 1    10/15/2008           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.56

 2    04/27/2009      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                0.56

 3    11/20/2009    Moderately Unsatisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory               1.11

 4    05/12/2010    Moderately Unsatisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory               1.11

 5    12/12/2010      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                2.06

 6    07/09/2011      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                3.06

 7    01/01/2012      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                4.37


H.    Restructuring
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The project was restructured on
                                                     February 25, 2010 because of
                                                     the slow pace of
                                                     implementation. Main changes
                                                     included: (i) reduction in the
                                                     number of sanitation facilities to
                                                     be built, from 15,100 to 12,100,
 02/25/2010       N       MU    MU            1.11   (ii) extension of the project
                                                     intervention area and
                                                     diversification of sanitation
                                                     technology options offered to
                                                     beneficiaries,(iii) extension of
                                                     the project completion date,
                                                     from February 28, 2010 to
                                                     December 31, 2011.




                                           viii
I.   Disbursement Profile




                            ix
 
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1.   Context at Appraisal

Sector Background

1.      The water and sanitation sector in Senegal is one of the most developed in sub-
Saharan Africa, and the country has long taken decisive steps to reach the sectoral
Millennium Development Goals (MDG). The sector nevertheless faces three major
challenges: (i) disparities in access and use of services between urban and rural areas and
between water and sanitation; (ii) the need to improve the sustainability of rural water
services; and (iii) the need to consolidate sector reforms and the sector’s financial
viability.
2.      Under the urban water 1995 reform, the sector was structured around three
national utilities: the National Water Corporation of Senegal (Société Nationale de l’Eau
du Sénégal, SONES), a public asset-holding company responsible for investments; the
Senegalese Water Company (Sénégalaise des Eaux, SDE), a private company in charge
of operations; and, with respect to sanitation, the National Sanitation Agency of Senegal
(Office National de l’Assainissement du Sénégal, ONAS) with the mission of developing
sanitation infrastructure and seeing to its management and operations. After 10 years of
reform, the urban water sector had achieved a very satisfactory record of performance
and restored its financial equilibrium. Meanwhile, the urban sanitation sector had
progressed but did not yet offer an acceptable level of service and had not realized its
financial viability.
3.      While overall water access rates in late 2006 were high by sub-Saharan African
standards, (98 percent in urban areas and 69 percent in rural areas), the overall access
rates for sanitation were estimated at 62 percent in urban areas but just 17 percent in rural
areas (the benchmark level for MDGs was subsequently revised to 26.2 percent), where
one-third of the population has no excreta disposal system. The city of Dakar, which has
a sanitation access rate of 64 percent (one quarter of which is via sewerage systems), has
86 percent of the sewerage systems nationwide. Dakar was recently targeted by a large-
scale Bank-financed program of on-site sanitation in peri-urban areas, known as
PAQPUD (Sanitation Program for Peri-urban Communities of Dakar), which introduced
appropriate and affordable solutions and responded to a high level of demand for
adequate wastewater elimination. In other urban centers, sewerage systems remain
largely undeveloped and households utilize latrines which often fail to meet minimum
health standards.
4.       At the time of project appraisal in January 2007, PAQPUD had just come to an
end, having resulted in total in the construction of some 63,000 individual sanitation
facilities, nine condominium sanitation systems, and three sludge treatment facilities, thus
permitting access to improved sanitation for 583,000 persons.




                                             1
Government Strategy

5.       The Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) of July 2005 lays out government strategy for
sanitation in urban centers, with an emphasis on achieving the optimal combination of
sewerage systems, condominium sanitation, and on-site facilities in order to expedite
progress in reaching sanitation-related aspects of the MDGs. The LSP also calls for the
development of on-site sanitation in all the municipalities of Senegal, based on a
technical package similar to the one developed by PAQPUD. PEPAM, the Water and
Sanitation Millennium Project launched by the Government in 2005 to achieve the
MDGs, is based on a four-pronged strategy: (i) evolution of the organizational and
institutional frameworks for the water and sanitation sectors with implementation of so-
called “second-generation? reforms; (ii) strengthening and consolidation of technical
infrastructure to meet increased demand, improve the quality of service, and expand the
service area; (iii) preservation of the water sector’s financial equilibrium achieved in
December 2003 and improvement of same in the sanitation sector; and (iv)
implementation of targeted poverty reduction actions. The objectives set by PEPAM were
for 78 percent of urban households to have access to sanitation services in 2015 (versus
56.7 percent in 2002), with an expected access rate of 85 percent in Dakar.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
6.      Since 1996, the World Bank has supported the efforts of the Government of
Senegal to expand access to safe drinking water and sanitation through the Water Sector
Project (PSE), the Long Term Water Project (PELT), and PEPAM. PAQPUD, one
component of the PELT project, resulted in the development of more than 63,000 on-site
sanitation facilities between 2003 and 2005 (compared to the 60,000 facilities expected,
and two years ahead of schedule), as well as three sludge treatment facilities. This
program, implemented by the Public Works Implementation Agency (AGETIP) under the
contracting authority of ONAS, ended in 2005 due to a lack of funding even though
actual demand for more than 74,000 additional facilities had been expressed by
populations who were ready to pay their financial share.
7.      Given the success achieved by PAQPUD, marking a major shift in on-site
sanitation projects in Senegal, and the dynamics generated by this success, the World
Bank decided to continue to assist the Government of Senegal through a grant financed
by the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID) and the
Netherlands Directorate-General for International Cooperation (DGIS), within the
framework of the Global Partnership for Output-Based Aid (GPOBA), a multi-donor
partnership administered by the World Bank.
8.      This project is consistent with the Letter of Sector Policy of July 2005, which
calls for the development of on-site sanitation in all the municipalities of Senegal, based
on a technical package similar to the one developed by PAQPUD. It is also consistent
with the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Republic of
Senegal, approved in January 2007 and aimed in particular at improving the quality of
life through improved natural resources management and expanded access to safe
drinking water. Finally, the drive to achieve sanitation MDGs by 2015 provided ample


                                            2
justification for adopting an Output-Based Aid (OBA) approach, where delivery of the
grant hinges on tangible results being achieved in the field.

1.2.   Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

9.     The original development objective of this project is to promote sustainable
access to individual sanitation services for populations living in peri-urban areas of
Dakar.
10.    Sustainable access to sanitation should contribute to the following:
       •   Reduction in the number of waterborne diseases in the project intervention
           areas. This will save considerable time and allow adults to engage in
           professional activities and children to attend school under favorable
           conditions;
       •   Improvement of the environment for beneficiaries and their neighborhoods;
       •   Reduction of monthly spending by OBA project beneficiary households on
           sanitation facility maintenance; and
       •   Improvement of living and working conditions for women.
11.    The key outcome indicators used for monitoring and measuring project
performance are the following:
       •   Number of additional persons with access to sanitation services;
       •   Number of sanitation facilities built;
       •   Average subsidy per facility;
       •   Average monthly spending on service maintenance by OBA project
           beneficiary households;
       •   Number of waterborne diseases per year per OBA project beneficiary
           household;
       •   Other impacts observed, based on various surveys: health benefits, time
           savings, financial savings, etc.; and
       •   Impact on women and girls (positive or negative).
12.    The details of these indicators were spelled out in the operational manual and can
be found in Annex 5.13.
13.    This project will make affordable, on-site sanitation facilities available to some
15,100 low-income households in targeted neighborhoods of the Dakar region. The five
types of sanitation facilities selected include: (i) pour-flush toilet with two soakaway pits
(TCM2F); (ii) pour-flush toilet plus shower with two soakaway pits (TCM2F+D); (iii)
shower/soakaway pit (DP); (iv) washing facility/soakaway pit (BALP); and (v) septic
tank (FS).



                                             3
14.    Achievement of these objectives should also be carried out in full compliance
with the basic principles of GPOBA, as follows:
       •   Subsidy limited to US$54 per person;
       •   Household contribution equivalent to at least 20 percent of total cost;
       •   Household contribution should be paid in full before the work begins; and
       •   The full cost of the facilities is not paid until successful completion is verified
           by an independent technical auditor.

1.3.   Revised PDOs and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justifications

15.    The project was approved on July 6, 2007 and really got under way on October
29, 2007 when the implementation agreement between ONAS and AGETIP was signed.
16.    More than two years later, just 7 percent of the originally planned facilities had
been completed. The decision was then made to restructure the project in February 2010
and extend its closing date to December 31, 2011. As part of the same restructuring
exercise, the end-of-project objectives were revised as follows:
       •   Construction of 12,100 individual sanitation facilities;
       •   108,900 persons have access to sanitation services; and
       •   The subsidy is limited to US$54 per beneficiary (unchanged).
17.      There are many reasons for the project’s low rate of implementation over the first
two years, providing ample justification for its restructuring: (i) in 2008-2009, the
economic crisis had significantly affected Senegalese households, who were facing
difficulties in raising their contribution toward funding the proposed improved sanitation
facilities just at a time when they were having trouble meeting daily expenses for food;
(ii) the project had targeted populations who were struck by floods two years in a row
(2007 and 2008); (iii) the fact that beneficiaries had to pay their full contribution (20
percent of total cost) before work could begin emerged as an obstacle for most
beneficiaries; (iv) this project’s specific implementation procedures seemed complicated
to the project team, which took some time to assimilate them, so the two-year
implementation period originally planned for the project then appeared to be too short;
and (v) staff changes at ONAS did not facilitate rapid ownership of the project.

1.4.   Main Beneficiaries

18.    The project’s main beneficiaries are the 12,100 households (108,900 persons
based on 9 persons per household) that gained access to improved sanitation, which they
had hitherto lacked. The project initially targeted five municipalities in the Dakar region,
including Malika, Yeumbeul, Diamaguène, Keur Massar, and Wakhinane Nimzatt.

19.   Other project beneficiaries are all the stakeholders participating in project
implementation, including: (i) construction companies; (ii) main contractors; (iii)
NGO/CBOs charged with social intermediation; and (iv) local authorities. For each of
                                             4
these stakeholders, project implementation helped them build their skills in the area of
sanitation and acquire know-how that can be put to good use in the future.

1.5.   Original Components

Component A: Output-based subsidies for the construction of on-site sanitation
facilities.

20.    This component aims to provide access to at least 15,100 sanitation facilities for
households living in the Dakar region (i.e. roughly 135,900 beneficiaries, based on nine
persons per household).

Component B: Monitoring and evaluation, audits, monitoring of environmental and
social impact.

21.    This component provides support for implementing and updating a monitoring
and evaluation system, conducting audits, and monitoring the environmental and social
impact of the construction of sanitation facilities.

1.6.   Revised Components

Component A: Output-based subsidies for the construction of on-site sanitation
facilities.

22.    This component aims to provide access to at least 12,100 sanitation facilities for
households living in the Dakar region (i.e. roughly 108,900 beneficiaries, based on nine
persons per household).

Component B: Monitoring and evaluation, audits, monitoring of environmental and
social impact.
23.    There were no modifications to this component, except for a budget reallocation.

1.7.   Other Significant Changes

24.    When the project was restructured in February 2010, the following changes were
adopted:
       • Redeployment of the project in other areas of the Dakar region well suited to
         the construction of on-site facilities and not faced with flooding issues.
       •   Expansion of the technological package through:
              o Introduction of the ventilated improved pit (VIP) latrine as another
                type of on-site sanitation facility;
              o Application of the in-kind contribution formula, whereby the
                beneficiaries themselves can build the superstructure of an above-

                                           5
                      ground facility (TCM2F, TCM2F+D, DP, VIP) with simpler and less
                      expensive materials than those identified by the project. This made it
                      possible to substantially reduce the cost of the facilities and to reach
                      very poor populations, as they no longer had to pay CFAF 10,000 as a
                      contribution but rather as collateral, before the facility could be
                      constructed. This collateral was then repaid to them once their
                      construction of the superstructure was complete.
                 o Additional option of household connections to condominium 1
                   sanitation systems built under PAQPUD. The plan was thus to
                   integrate connections to hitherto unconnected compounds in the
                   following areas: Ngor, Ouakam, Yoff, Hann Bel Air, Mbao, Rufisque
                   Est, and Bargny.
        •    Strengthening and diversification of the Information, Education, and
             Communication (IEC) component to generate greater demand and promote
             household behavioral change, especially by stepping up mass communications
             (broadcasting ads on TV and radio, holding kick-off ceremonies in the various
             project intervention areas, organizing road shows, etc.).
        •    Closer monitoring of the project by holding bimonthly meetings between
             ONAS, AGETIP, and the World Bank, as well as weekly meetings between
             ONAS and AGETIP.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

25.    The project was designed as a continuation of PAQPUD, which had achieved
very good results, in order to meet some of the demand left unsatisfied by PAQPUD.

26.     Accordingly, the project design encompassed the following questions:
        • Areas to be served, starting with the PAQPUD intervention areas;
        •    Number of facilities to be built, addressing unsatisfied demand;
        •    Type of facilities to be built, in view of those actually requested by PAQPUD
             beneficiaries;
        •    Estimated cost of facilities;




1
  In Senegal, condominium systems (“condominium systèmes? or “systèmes semi-collectifs?) consist of an
inhouse interceptor tank, a small diameter sewer system with a dedicated treatment plant or connected to a
conventional sewage system.




                                                    6
       •   Estimated compensation of the various providers (construction companies,
           main contractors, etc.), expressed as a percentage of the total cost of a
           sanitation facility; and
       •   Method of intervention, relying on subcontracting.
27.     One of the critical points for this type of project, where subsidies are provided per
household, is to estimate as accurately as possible the size of the contribution that
beneficiary households can afford. On this point, instead of conducting a household
survey on the capacity and willingness of households to pay for sanitation services, the
project generally adopted the same household contribution levels as those used under
PAQPUD. Within the GPOBA framework, however, it should be noted that beneficiaries
must pay their full contribution before the work gets under way, which had the effect of
slowing down the project, given the difficulty that beneficiaries have in meeting this
condition.
28.     The GPOBA project follows a few basic principles, each of which is important in
order for the project to function smoothly:

       •   The subsidy is limited to US$54 per person;
       •   The household contribution is equivalent to at least 20 percent of the total
           cost, to be paid in full before the work begins; and
       •   The full cost of the facilities is not paid until successful completion is
           announced, based on a sampling process, attested by delivery of an Output
           Verification Report (OVR) to be issued by an independent technical auditor.
29.     As in the case of PAQPUD, this project was carried out under the contracting
authority of ONAS, which recruited AGETIP as the subcontracting unit, and AGETIP in
turn subcontracted with main contractors, NGO/CBOs, and construction companies.

30.    The responsibilities of each of these actors are as follows:
       •   ONAS is responsible for project execution on the Government’s behalf and, as
           such, (i) supervises implementation of all project components, (ii) validates
           quarterly plans, and (iii) monitors and approves invoices for payment of
           AGETIP and all other providers involved in project execution;
       •   AGETIP (i) handles allotment of the sanitation facilities, (ii) recruits
           consulting firms, NGO/CBOs, and construction companies, (iii) issues
           payments, and (iv) reports to ONAS;
       •   Consulting firms (main contractors) carry out technical feasibility studies and
           supervise the construction companies;
       •   Construction companies perform the work; and
       •   NGO/CBOs implement the awareness-raising program and generate demand
           for sanitation services. The effectiveness of this social initiative is one of the
           key factors of the program’s success because it provides a way to stimulate
           demand, identify and propose appropriate solutions for households, including

                                             7
           the poorest among them, and promote sound practices in the area of hygiene
           and facility maintenance.
31.     Compensation of the various stakeholders hinges on successful achievement of
the objectives and is directly proportional to the number of sanitation facilities built.

32.    At the outset of the project, the breakdown of compensation for the various
stakeholders was set as a percentage of the loan, as follows: (i) ONAS (2 percent), (ii)
AGETIP (4 percent), (iii) main contractors (4.4 percent), (iv) NGO/CBOs (7.5 percent),
and (v) construction companies (82.1 percent). It bears mention that, in the wake of
PAQPUD, it was decided to reduce management costs for the GPOBA project by
lowering the combined percentage for all stakeholders except construction companies
from 30 to 18 percent.

33.    Two other entities also play a role in the project:

       •   As in the case of any project with external financing, a financial auditor;
       •   Specifically for GPOBA, an independent technical auditor who, at the end of
           each quarter, based on a sampling process, certifies completion of the
           sanitation facilities according to the GPOBA rule book. This is a requirement
           for payment of the construction company.
Risks and Mitigation

34.     The main risks identified at the project preparation stage were the following: (i) a
decrease in the amount allocated for the social engineering component may result in
weaker demand or longer delays in project implementation; (ii) the project financial
mechanisms may produce payment delays that will prove difficult for AGETIP; (iii) an
increase in the requested household contribution may result in a sharp drop in demand for
sanitation facilities; and (iv) there may an insufficient number of construction companies
to complete all the planned sanitation facilities on time.

35.     These risks were overcome as follows: (i) the amount allocated for the social
engineering component, which indeed turned out to be insufficient, was strengthened
when the project was restructured; (ii) a funds-tracking table was adopted and shared
with the various stakeholders which made it possible to plan different disbursements
during each quarter. In addition, AGETIP received a substantial advance when the work
got under way, in the amount of CFAF 200 million; (iii) households were given the
opportunity to build the facility superstructure themselves, with targeted financial support
from the Government in 2010 and 2011 for paying their share, so that an increase in
household contributions would not reduce the level of demand for sanitation facilities;
and (iv) contracting companies relied on subcontracting during periods of strong demand.

2.2.   Implementation

36.    The project had two distinct phases, with entirely different outcomes at the end of
these phases:

                                             8
            •   November 2007 to February 2010 (28 months), i.e. the original project period:
                only 10 percent of the sanitation facilities ultimately completed were built
                during this period;
            •   March 2010 to December 2011 (22 months), i.e. the project extension phase
                pursuant to project restructuring: 90 percent of the sanitation facilities
                ultimately completed during the entire project were built during this period,
                due to the changes introduced with project restructuring.
Institutional Outline, as implemented during the project

      WB                    Request for fund replenishment


                                                                              ONAS                   Recruitment,
                  Financial circuit                                                                  monitoring,
Financial                                                                                            and supervision
circuit                         Recruitment,
                                monitoring,
                                and supervision              Contrôle,
                                                             Audit
                                                                                                                 Environmental and
    DDI special                       Financial auditor                                   Technical auditor        social auditor
     account                                                             Subcontracting
                                                                           authority
                                                Controls,                                    Controls,
                                                audit                                        audit


                  Financial circuit                                        AGETIP
                                                                                                    Recruitment,
                                         Recruitment,                                               monitoring,
                                         monitoring,          Payment of                            and supervision
                                         and supervision      contributions
                                                                                                                 Monitoring of the
                                                                                          Private operators      environmental
                                                                                             Engineering         and social impact
                                                   NGOs/CBO                                     Works            of the works
                                                                                               Training

                                                              Payment of
                                                                                                     Performance of
                                Social engineering            contributions
                                                                                                     services


                                                                         Beneficiaries




Restructuring

37.    In view of the weak results obtained by the end of the original project period, it
was decided to restructure the project around the following points:

            •   Redeployment of the project in other areas of the Dakar region;
            •   Expansion of the technological package through: (i) introduction of other
                types of on-site sanitation facilities; (ii) application of the in-kind contribution
                formula, which enabled beneficiaries to reduce their contribution; and (iii)
                household connections to condominium sanitation systems built under
                PAQPUD;
                                                                    9
       •   Strengthening and diversification of the IEC component; and
       •   Closer monitoring of the project.
38.     Pursuant to the Government’s decision to support the project by providing
budgetary support in 2010 and 2011, AGETIP sought to use this budget as efficiently as
possible in the form of two promotional campaigns focusing on the most requested
sanitation facilities, namely: (i) BALPs and connections to condominium sanitation
systems during the first campaign, and (ii) BALPs and TCM2F+Ds during the second
campaign.

Mid-Term Review

39.     A formal mid-term review was not planned as the project was expected to be
implemented in 2 ½ years. However, a restructuring mission took place from February 1
to 6, 2010 and this could be considered as the mid-term review when the project closing
date was extended by 22 months.

Factors that contributed to successful implementation

40.     The factors that contributed the most to successful project implementation are
related to the steps taken to restructure the project following the mid-term review. In
particular, these steps produced the following results:

       •   Greater flexibility in project implementation via: (i) expansion of the project’s
           intervention areas; (ii) diversification of the technological options for
           sanitation facilities proposed to potential beneficiaries; and (iii) opportunity
           provided to beneficiaries to build their own superstructure and thereby lower
           their financial contribution;
       •   Closer monitoring of the project by organizing bimonthly meetings between
           ONAS, AGETIP, and the World Bank, permitted more in-depth project
           monitoring by area of intervention and type of sanitation facility installed. By
           analyzing these data, project interventions could be steered more effectively;
           and
       •   Strengthening and diversification of the IEC component, which served to
           generate greater demand and promote household behavior change, especially
           by stepping up mass communications (72 television and 51 radio
           advertisements, kick-off ceremonies in the various project intervention areas
           attended by mayors and presidents of rural communities, road shows,
           distribution of T-shirts and posters, etc.).
41.     Redeployment of the project into new areas produced good results, but it was not
a simple matter to determine which areas would be most suitable. To test the most
favorable areas, AGETIP recruited intermediaries from women’s associations to conduct
local surveys. If the survey results showed real interest on the part of the population for
improved sanitation services, then AGETIP deployed the necessary teams to launch
project operations.

                                            10
42.     When the project was restructured, Senegalese officials became truly aware of the
value of continuing this project so as to take full advantage of a US$5 million subsidy at
a time when the sanitation access rate in Senegal was stagnating at levels far below those
named in the MDGs. The ministry in charge of sanitation then awarded this project two
subsidies, totaling CFAF 80 million (about US$160,000) and CFAF 100 million (about
US$200,000) for 2010 and 2011 respectively, in order to lighten the financial
contribution from the most underprivileged households seeking to participate in the
project.

43.     Closer IDA monitoring of the complex procedures involved in project execution,
made possible by the on-site presence of a co-Task Team Leader, is another significant
factor that contributed to successful project implementation.

Factors that gave rise to problems in implementation

44.     The GPOBA project was appraised in line with the PAQPUD and aimed to
respond to unmet demand generated under that project. It has been designed using the
same approach in terms of intervention areas, proposed sanitation facilities and level of
beneficiaries’ contribution. However, GPOBA’s implementation conditions were
different, notably (i) due to specific GPOBA’s rules, full payment of beneficiaries’
contribution before the beginning of works was required; and (ii) the long payment delay
for enterprises based on certification of works done, by an external auditor. In addition,
the realization of the sanitation facilities was not easy at the beginning of the project
because of the difficult economic conditions for households in the project areas who
faced 2 consecutive floodings in 2007 and 2008. These factors severely hampered project
implementation.

45.      AGETIP announced two Requests for Proposals (RFP) during the project, each
with several packages, to recruit construction companies for building the sanitation
facilities. With the 2007 introduction of the new government procurement code, however,
the entire procurement process was lengthened, largely due to a requirement to “no
objections? to the Central Department for Government Procurement (DCMP) at most
stages of the selection process. Under the second RFP, AGETIP did not adequately
anticipate the time needed for this procurement, and 10 months elapsed after RFP
preparation before contracts were actually signed with construction companies. Thus, in
the absence of contracts, companies were unable to operate in the field even though the
pace of household contributions collected during this time continued at the same rate, a
success largely due to the launch of multiple promotional campaigns. By October 15,
2011, the discrepancy between the number of household contributions collected and the
number of facilities built had grown to 1,770. This gap was too great to fill in the 2.5
months remaining before the project closing date, despite the resources subsequently
deployed in the field by construction companies.

46.     Political circumstances also created problems for project implementation in
certain areas, such as Keur Massar. This rural community underwent a change in
administrative boundaries during project implementation, in effect demobilizing local


                                           11
officials working on this topic, despite the fact that Keur Massar was achieving the best
results of all the project intervention areas at this time.

47.    One of the basic GPOBA principles is that beneficiaries pay their full contribution
before the work gets under way. This slowed down project implementation, as
beneficiaries often had great difficulty coming up with the full amount. To ease this
constraint, AGETIP partnered with a microfinance organization, the Partnership for the
Mobilization of Savings and Credit in Senegal (PAMECAS), but it did not produce the
expected results, as the cost of access to credit turned out to be too high.

2.3.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation Design

48.     To monitor the progress of a project that was designed to build more than 10,000
sanitation facilities for private individuals in scattered geographic areas, it was essential
to set up an effective M&E system so that all the different project stages could be
monitored as follows:

       •   List of requests, technical visits, and monitoring of contributions paid. The
           system set in place by AGETIP for tracking all paid contributions relies
           primarily on NGO/CBO employees deployed in the field. Following the
           informational campaigns and road shows, they make door-to-door visits to
           raise potential beneficiaries’ awareness of the different types of sanitation
           facility being offered as well as the expected benefits. They then collect
           contributions from households actually joining the project and provide a
           receipt. Accounts have been opened in various local banks to safeguard all the
           funds collected. The list of households having paid their contribution is sent to
           the main contractor, who then schedules a technical visit to each of the
           compounds to make sure that the type of facility selected can actually be built,
           given the site configuration, the available space, and the type of soil.
       •   Monitoring of implementation. Once the technical visits have taken place, if
           there are no constraints, then the construction company for the intervention
           area builds the sanitation facility in the compound; the main contractor
           performs technical oversight until it delivers the completed work, and the
           structure is geo-referenced by GPS.
       •   Monitoring of payments. According to the GPOBA procedures manual,
           payments for each quarter are to be made in three installments:
               (i)     at the beginning of the quarter, a payment of 30 percent of the cost
                       of the sanitation facilities is made, based on the estimated number
                       of facilities to be built during the quarter, and reported in the
                       project implementation program (PEP);
               (ii)    at the end of the quarter, a payment of 80 percent of the cost of the
                       facilities actually built and delivered is made, less the 30 percent

                                             12
                       already paid at the beginning of the quarter for facilities expected
                       to be built, and reported in the project implementation report
                       (REP); and
               (iii)   after the end of the quarter, following a technical audit of a sample
                       of the facilities built and delivered, a payment of 20 percent,
                       corresponding to the balance due, is paid and duly attested in a
                       final audit report (REC) produced by the independent technical
                       auditor.
49.      According to GPOBA rules, the final quarterly payment for the sanitation
facilities hinges on the final audit report to be prepared by an independent technical
auditor. The auditor selects approximately 10 percent of the facilities approved during the
quarter, develops a list of beneficiary addresses to be audited, and makes field visits to
examine the facilities’ compliance with technical quality and operating standards,
verifying that the stated results are consistent with the sanitation facilities actually built
and approved.

50.     Surveys of beneficiary populations were planned for the end of the project so as to
assess the project’s beneficial impacts (reduction of health expenditures, improvement of
living conditions, etc.) and to learn about the beneficiaries’ perception of project
implementation (types of facilities proposed, implementation timeframe and delays, etc.).

Monitoring and Evaluation Implementation

51.     The monitoring and evaluation system was implemented as originally planned
with satisfactory results, particularly during project start-up when the rate of construction
was low. When the project entered a phase of sustained activity, following its
restructuring, however, a few shortcomings in the system became apparent that needed to
be addressed:

       •   In regard to monitoring contributions paid and sanitation facilities built, the
           system permits proper monitoring but not in real time due to the traditional
           method of reporting that was used (transmittal of reports or weekly contact by
           telephone). It was impossible to know the status of contributions paid and
           facilities built on a day-to-day basis because this information was only
           produced at bi-monthly meetings. This also led to delays in invoicing and, in
           turn, in payments. To improve the monitoring, a system based on the use of
           mobile telephones, with information transmitted by field workers via SMS on
           a specific exchange platform, coupled with an automatic GPS record
           integrated into a telephone chip, would permit day-to-day monitoring of
           project progress.
       •   As for payments, there was a complexity of the calculations associated with
           the three payments during a given quarter, based on both the estimated
           number of facilities to be built and the number ultimately completed and
           approved. It proved necessary to develop a spreadsheet to provide detailed
           tracking of outputs, by area and by type of facility, thus permitting automatic

                                             13
           calculation of payments to be made for each of the three payments and per
           stakeholder. This tracking system was implemented from the very first
           payment to be made and was then used through to project completion. The
           spreadsheet made it easy to integrate new intervention areas, new types of
           sanitation facilities, and changes in fees over the course of the project.
       •   For a project in which payments for various stakeholders hinge on achieving
           the project objectives, this aspect of monitoring each stakeholder’s
           performance was not addressed as part of the project design and was instead
           developed in a gradual way as the project advanced. Thus, NGO/CBOs were
           assigned the task of collecting contributions every two weeks, and their
           compensation depended on meeting these objectives, with mediocre
           performance resulting in non-renewal of their contract.
       •   Construction companies were assigned an objective of a specified number of
           sanitation facilities to be built per week, with very close monitoring late in the
           project. But the type of contracts signed with these companies did not allow
           for tying their compensation to achievement of the objectives.
52.     The quarterly technical audits of sanitation facilities did not encounter any
particular problems, except for the time it took to produce the often lengthy, final report.
This was largely due to delays in providing the list of facilities that were built and
approved during the quarter and needing to be audited. It should be noted that the auditor
subcontracted by the contracting authority to perform this mission was an individual
consultant, recruited locally, and not a consulting firm; this permitted rapid recruitment,
and thus caused no delay in project implementation.

53.      Once the project was restructured, bimonthly meetings between the World Bank,
ONAS, and AGETIP, with a standard meeting format and systematic reporting, provided
closer monitoring of the project, in terms of both contributions collected and sanitation
facilities built.

Monitoring and Evaluation Utilization

54.      The monitoring and evaluation system set in place to monitor contributions paid,
facilities built, and payments made was utilized for the following purposes at the
bimonthly meetings:

       •   Verification of reported information, comparing data by type of facility built
           and by intervention area, thus reducing the number of errors, which were
           initially frequent;
       •   More systematic quantification of discrepancies between objectives and
           outcomes and more effective development of intervention strategies,
           especially toward the end of the project when time was drawing short; and
       •   Availability of specific data broken down by area and by type of facility,
           resulting in more appropriately focused interventions and the development of
           more effectively targeted communication campaigns.

                                            14
2.4.   Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

55.    At the outset, an environmental and social assessment of the project was
performed, which concluded that negative project impacts would be minor and would be
manageable by the project implementing organizations (ONAS, AGETIP, the main
contractor, NGO/CBOs, etc.). An environmental and social management plan was then
proposed, containing mitigation measures to be taken by the project implementing
organizations.

56.     An environmental and social auditor was recruited at the end of the project to
assess the effectiveness and project integration of World Bank environmental and social
safeguard policies, as well as compliance with national environmental laws and
regulations. In addition, the auditor was able to note the globally positive impact of the
project on the beneficiary populations, in terms of their living conditions and lower health
expenses related to diseases caused by poor hygiene.

Fiduciary Compliance

57.     The project’s complex financial management system, particularly aspects related
to the budget, accounting, fluidity of funds, financial reporting, and internal controls,
improved throughout the project, becoming Satisfactory in the final months of the
project. The disbursement rate was very low for a long time, reflecting the difficulties in
completing the sanitation facilities early in the project. This rate grew sharply in the final
months, due to the accelerated pace of construction at the end of the project. The credit
consumption rate (89 percent) is satisfactory, but the resources were not totally consumed
for lack of time to complete the activities. Overall, procurement was handled well by
AGETIP, which had to manage a large number of contracts under ONAS supervision.

2.5.   Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

58.      The project involves the construction of three types of sanitation facility: (i)
excreta sanitation facilities, either individual or connected to a condominium system; (ii)
facilities for the removal of household wastewater, the BALPs and DPs; and (iii) mixed
facilities that serve both purposes (TCM2F+D). For several years, ONAS has been
diversifying its suite of technologies to address the challenges of sanitation. In addition
to the sewerage system, ONAS now promotes on-site sanitation facilities and
condominium systems as sanitation techniques. The latter two technologies, proposed
within the GPOBA framework, both result in the on-site production of sludge, which
needs to be removed and treated. This element has been embraced for some years now by
ONAS, notably with World Bank support through PAQPUD, under which three sludge
treatment facilities were constructed. ONAS recently signed a US$10 million funding
agreement with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for a program to promote sludge
treatment for poor households in Dakar. This program specifically involves improvement
and structuring of the mechanized sludge removal market, private sector management of

                                             15
existing and future facilities, and construction of a new sludge treatment facility (in Keur
Massar), as well as ten transfer stations in Pikine and Guédiawaye. ONAS has created a
specific department for on-site sanitation to promote this technology, but this department
should be strengthened and given greater visibility within ONAS. Its current financial
situation does not allow ONAS to efficiently operate and manage the various
condominium sanitation systems under its purview, which could result in inconveniences
for users of these systems. It will be necessary to ensure the effective management of
these facilities and to help ONAS establish a management arrangement involving mayors
and beneficiary populations through management committees.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

59.     The project objectives are fully consistent with the country’s priorities in regard to
improved access to the basic services of water supply and sanitation and, more
specifically, on-site sanitation, as stated in the Letter of Sector Policy of July 2005. They
are also consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved in January 2007
and aimed in particular at improving the quality of life through improved access to safe
drinking water and sanitation services and a reduction in diseases linked to the
environment. Finally, the project contributes to progress in reaching the MDGs pertaining
to access to safe drinking water and sanitation.

60.     The types of sanitation proposed, namely on-site sanitation and connections to
existing condominium systems, are particularly well suited to the project intervention
areas, given the absence of conventional systems (sewerage systems) in these areas and
the massive investments that would be needed to build new sewerage systems (which
would be technically difficult to build because the roads are so narrow) and wastewater
treatment facilities. The mechanical sludge removal sector is well developed in the Dakar
region, and sludge removal operators have three sludge treatment facilities available to
them to receive excreta from the new individual sanitation facilities. Moreover, this
strategy is consistent with the purchasing power of the target populations.

61.     The project design took into account existing factors favoring the project’s
success, specifically: (i) the successful experience of a vast on-site sanitation program in
the same intervention area, PAQPUD, which preceded the project; (ii) the opportunity to
rely on teams already in place at ONAS and AGETIP, experienced in the implementation
of complex large-scale sanitation programs; and (iii) a local private sector fully capable
of constructing these types of sanitation facilities.

62.     The Output-Based Aid (OBA) approach is based on the following fundamental
principles: (i) payment of aid hinges on achievement of the outputs; (ii) service provision
is performed by a third party, who receives a grant for this purpose, along with the
beneficiaries’ participation; (iii) the service provider pre-finances the project until the
service is actually provided; (iv) beneficiaries are targeted so as to ensure that subsidies
go to the poorest populations; and (v) service provision is verified by an independent
auditor. All of these conditions were met in Senegal to implement this project in
                                             16
accordance with the OBA approach, which had already been indirectly implemented
through PAQPUD.

63.     GPOBA has a mandate to promote the OBA approach and improve the provision
of basic services to disadvantaged populations in developing countries that are typically
excluded because they cannot pay the full cost of access to such services. The sanitation
system—the subject at hand—was thus a perfect match for the goals of GPOBA, and the
targeted intervention areas were home to the poorest populations, fulfilling one of the
basic GPOBA principles.

3.2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

64.    Achievement of the project development objectives is considered Satisfactory, as
demonstrated by the project performance indicators, which were all virtually achieved or
even exceeded.

The number of persons with improved access to sanitation in the Dakar region
increased.
65.     Through this project, 103,455 additional persons gained improved access to
sanitation, calculated on the project preparation’s basis of nine persons per household.
Compared to the original objective of serving 108,900 persons, the project achieved 95
percent of its objective. In fact, during the household surveys conducted at the end of the
project, it turned out that the average number of persons per household in the areas
targeted by the project was in fact 12 persons. If this household size is used in the
calculations, then the project actually reached 137,940 persons, i.e. 127 percent of the
original objective.

Number of on-site sanitation facilities built
66.     The number of facilities built is 11,495, compared to the 12,100 facilities
originally planned, i.e. 95 percent of the objective.

Average subsidy per sanitation facility
67.      The upper limit for the average subsidy was set at US$54 per person, in
accordance with GPOBA rules. At the beginning of the project, after the announcement
of the first request for proposals for performing the work, which determined the price of
the facilities and, as a corollary, the size of the subsidy per facility and the level of the
household contribution, the subsidy was US$35 per person, i.e. below the US$54 ceiling
set by GPOBA. By the summer of 2010, due to the rising price of raw materials (cement,
rebar, etc.), the cost of building the facilities had increased and, given the economic
difficulties faced by households, it was decided to keep the household contributions at the
same level. The average subsidy per facility was then recalculated at US$45 per person,
still below the US$54 figure. With the project over and the number of completed
facilities known, as well as the project disbursement total, it can be easily confirmed that
the average final subsidy per facility worked out to US$45.40 per person. Here again, it
should be noted that, if an average household size of 12 persons is used in the
calculations, instead of the figure of nine persons used at the outset, then the average
subsidy would fall to US$34 per person.

                                             17
3.3.   Efficiency

68.     To assess project efficiency, a cost-benefit analysis was first planned, but this
assumed that the extra costs and benefits could be quantified, with data collected in a
comparable fashion in situations with and without the project. However, the availability
of data on pre-project benefits was uncertain and the post-project benefits could not be
accurately determined without sufficient perspective given the recent completion of the
sanitation facilities.

69.     Assessments of the health benefits of sanitation are difficult to quantify because it
is not necessarily clear that the benefits obtained in a project intervention area are due
solely to this sanitation operation, independent of other possible causes (improvements to
health, education, and hygiene services, etc…). Nonetheless, the health benefits of
sanitation are numerous:

       •   Less school absenteeism;
       •   Less time spent by parents providing health care to themselves or their
           children and, as a result, greater opportunity to increase their income;
       •   Lower health expenses incurred for diseases caused by poor hygiene; and
       •   Time saved, principally by women, for activities associated with household
           wastewater removal.
70.     It was therefore deemed preferable to proceed with a cost-effectiveness analysis,
which seeks to assess unit costs (per person and per household) in order to demonstrate
that the technological choices adopted for this project are the most effective ones in
economic terms. An analysis of the GPOBA beneficiaries' subsidy rate, compared to the
rate for households connected to sewerage systems, was also performed, and this shows
that the subsidies needed to build individual or condominium sanitation facilities are
between 2 and 2.5 times lower than those required for building sewerage systems of a
waterborne sewerage system type.

71.     In addition, the surveys conducted at the end of the project (see Section 3.5) made
it possible to quantify household budget savings attributable to the project:

       •   Lower health expenses incurred for diseases related to poor hygiene. More
           than half the beneficiaries (56 percent) witnessed a drop in their health
           expenses related to poor hygiene, from CFAF 96,100 per household per year
           before the facilities were built to CFAF 52,123 following acquisition of the
           GPOBA facilities, i.e. a decline of 46 percent. This annual savings of CFAF
           52,123 compares very positively with the average one-time contribution of
           CFAF 37,129 paid by households to acquire a sanitation facility.
       •   Less frequent waste removal. The frequency of waste removal declined once
           the sanitation facilities were built, from an average of 3.6 disposals per year to
           1.5, with a corresponding reduction in costs associated with waste removal.




                                             18
3.4.   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

72.     The project’s overall outcome rating is Satisfactory because (i) the project
ultimately achieved its development objectives, despite implementation difficulties
during the first two years, and (ii) the outcome indicators were virtually achieved. The
project was actually designed as a pilot using the OBA scheme, and the first phase of the
project implementation before the February 2010 restructuring was seen as a learning
process. Difficulties encountered during which were not anticipated derived from: (i) the
introduction of complex GPOBA rules different from procedures practiced under the
previous IDA-funded project and (ii), the fact that the project intervention areas were
struck by severe floods for two consecutive years in 2007 and 2008. The project
restructuring in 2010 and with an extension of the closing date, proved to have addressed
these bottlenecks and in the end, the project has achieved its objective. Overall this
project could provide good reference for future interventions in the region in the design
and implementation of OBA projects.

73.     Beyond the development of infrastructure, the project has developed mechanisms
for promoting on-site sanitation and generating demand, which should prove useful in
replicating the operation; NGO/CBOs have now been trained to educate populations and
raise public awareness with respect to hygiene, artisans have mastered the task of
building individual sanitation facilities, etc.

3.5.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

74.     The project had a positive impact on poverty reduction, gender-based issues, and
social development, as shown by the household surveys administered to beneficiary
households, summarized in Paragraph 3.5. In particular, this project had a significant
positive impact on women and children. Women played a dominant role in the decision-
making process about choosing the right sanitation facility and had their workload
lightened once the facilities were built. Children are now growing up in a healthier
environment, which contributes to a decline in waterborne diseases, allowing them to
enjoy better health and improve their school attendance.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

75.     Based on the successful experience of PAQPUD and the GPOBA project, ONAS
is clearly in favor of promoting individual and condominium sanitation as appropriate
technologies for developing access to improved sanitation and making progress toward
achieving the MDGs. However, ONAS has not taken full enough advantage of project
implementation to strengthen its leadership in this area. Thus, for example, the focal point
of this project within ONAS was recruited from the outside, with a contract for the length
of the project, and ONAS contract workers who had steered the preceding PAQPUD
project were not hired as permanent ONAS staff, which raises concerns about the future

                                            19
of the on-site sanitation department at ONAS. To bridge this gap, ONAS should: (i) step
up capitalization and communication actions for promoting individual sanitation, and (ii)
provide the on-site sanitation department with an adequate budget for properly fulfilling
its mission.

76.    Taken individually, stakeholders in this project have strengthened capacities in
various areas, such as procurement, social engineering, and monitoring of work
performance, and all have improved capacities for managing an output-based project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

77.      When the project was restructured, connections to condominium systems were
made eligible, which enabled the project team to better understand, through regular field
visits, the serviceability of these systems and the operating procedures involved. These
visits resulted in final approval of these systems, for which appropriate management
procedures still need to be defined.

3.6.   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

78.     At the end of the project, surveys were administered to 589 of the 11,495
households that acquired a sanitation facility (i.e, 5.1 percent). These surveys were used
to assess the following:

       •   Household composition. The targeted households are relatively large in size,
           with an average of 12 members, although at the time of project appraisal the
           average household was considered to include nine persons.
       •   Types of sanitation facilities possessed previously. Forty-nine percent of the
           GPOBA beneficiaries lacked access to an adequate sanitation system that
           satisfied sanitation standards and requirements; of these, close to one-fifth had
           traditional latrines, while four-fifths either defecated in the open or used
           neighbors’ latrines.
       •   The project’s positive impact on women. Women played a dominant role in
           the decision-making process about choosing the right type of sanitation
           facility, since the types proposed offered the possibility – and later, the reality
           – of reducing the workload for women once the facilities were built.
       •   Reasons for choosing the requested facilities. The main reasons for choosing
           the facilities were the need for an on-site solution, the desire to lighten
           domestic chores, and the pricing, deemed affordable for 91 percent of
           beneficiaries.
       •   Information sources. Word of mouth appears to be the channel used most
           often to circulate project information. This suggests that there has been
           satisfactory awareness-raising at the community level.



                                             20
       •   Less frequent waste removal. The frequency of waste removal declined once
           the sanitation facilities were built, from an average of 3.6 disposals per year to
           1.5, with a corresponding reduction in costs associated with waste removal.
       •   Procedure followed to acquire a sanitation facility. The beneficiary
           households stated that, in the majority of cases (80 percent), they waited from
           one to five weeks after making their request for a sanitation facility before
           receiving feedback from project officials; the most frequent waiting period
           was two weeks.
       •   Utilization of the sanitation facility by neighbor households. The beneficiary
           households have stopped defecating in the open or using neighbors’ latrines,
           and some of their own neighbors now use their sanitation systems. Indirectly,
           the GPOBA project thus affects more households than the direct project
           beneficiaries alone.
       •   Health expenses incurred for diseases related to poor hygiene. More than half
           the beneficiaries (56 percent) witnessed a drop in their health expenses related
           to poor hygiene, from CFAF 96,100 per household per year before the
           facilities were built to CFAF 52,123 following acquisition of the GPOBA
           facilities, i.e. a decline of 46 percent, with average annual health spending
           totaling CFAF 256,968.
       •   Impact of the facilities on living conditions of beneficiaries. Three-quarters of
           the beneficiaries state that acquisition of the sanitation facilities has improved
           their living conditions. The perceived improvements are (i) fewer mosquitoes,
           (ii) savings on waste removal expenses, and (iii) improvement of the living
           environment.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

79.      The individual sanitation facilities built at private homes were based on simple
techniques, by design, and involved permanent materials (rubble, concrete slabs). With
regular maintenance, their useful life can last well over ten years. The risk of inoperative
facilities caused by a high groundwater table was taken into account during project
implementation and, to guard against this risk, areas subject to flooding and areas with a
high groundwater table were deemed ineligible to receive individual sanitation facilities;
other technologies, such as connections to condominium systems, were then promoted.
During project implementation, households were targeted by awareness-raising activities
concerning proper use of their facilities and the regular maintenance required to ensure
that the facilities have good longevity.

80.      Apart from excreta removal costs for many of the facilities (50 percent of the
total), maintenance entails no expense, just a little time for wiping down or washing the
facilities, unblocking the pipes, etc. This regular maintenance will enable households to
continue to benefit from well-operating facilities.


                                            21
81.     For waste removal from septic tanks, the areas targeted by the project are served
by three sludge treatment facilities (Cambérène, Rufisque, and Niayes) operated by
ONAS. The fleet of operators that empty septic tanks for Dakar includes more than 100
trucks, so households can utilize the services of these operators, who can then deposit the
sludge at the approved facilities. In addition, ONAS is initiating a program in the project
intervention area, with US$10.8 million in funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, to structure the sludge market on behalf of the poor households of Dakar,
with the objective of reducing the cost of mechanical sludge removal for private
individuals.

82.     The project has enabled some 800 households (roughly 6 percent of the project
beneficiaries) to connect to existing condominium sewerage systems. For this type of
facility to remain functional over time, however, beneficiary households must not only
maintain the facility but also empty their intercepting tank. It is now clear that this tank
does not need to be emptied frequently, which reduces the user costs for beneficiaries,
though the condominium system itself must be fully operative. In the current context,
these sewerage facilities (apart from connections to private homes) are managed and
operated by ONAS, which, due to financial difficulties in recent years, has not yet
deployed sufficient resources to operate the facilities optimally.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.   Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

83.      Bank performance with respect to project design is deemed Moderately
Satisfactory. Project preparation relied heavily on the experience of PAQPUD. To round
out the lessons drawn from this experience, the World Bank commissioned
socioeconomic, technical, and financial studies. These studies were then used, among
other purposes, to: (i) identify the types of sanitation facilities proposed and their
numerical breakdown; (ii) accurately estimate the costs of the facilities, as borne out by
the two requests for proposals for performing the work, where the unit costs of the
facilities proved to be consistent with the original projections; (iii) propose a reduction in
management costs in comparison to those incurred during PAQPUD, from 30 to 18
percent; (iv) propose the same level of household contribution as in the final phase of
PAQPUD (20 to 25 percent); (v) propose the project intervention areas; and (vi) propose
a financial package for the project and appropriate entities for implementing it. When the
project was restructured, based on a critical analysis of the difficulties encountered early
in the project and mainly because of an economic context that had greatly deteriorated
over a two-year period, this provided the opportunity to recalibrate the project more
effectively and make a fresh start on a stronger foundation.




                                             22
(b) Quality of Supervision

84.     Overall, the quality of supervision was Moderately Satisfactory for the entire
project. The supervision component was perhaps underestimated during the initial phase
of the project, due to reliance on the prior experience of PAQPUD for which
implementation arrangements were simpler. Both the Bank and the Borrower were
accountable for the long delay before a decision was taken to restructure the project. The
project’s financial package, which was quite complex in comparison to packages with
which the ONAS and AGETIP teams were familiar, required closer project supervision,
which was one of the recommendations made when the project was restructured. In this
regard, the World Bank was able to rely on the support of Dakar-based Water and
Sanitation Program (WSP) staff, who provided close monitoring of project activities and
maintained an ongoing dialogue with the various stakeholders. In addition, the TTL for
this project, who is based in the region and is also TTL for another IDA-financed sectoral
project in Senegal, was able to travel fairly often to Senegal to supervise the project.

85.     Thus, after the project was restructured, 41 project monitoring sessions were
organized, to be compared with the 12 meetings held during the initial phase. Seven
formal missions were organized with specific missions on the fiduciary aspects of
financial management and procurement. The permanent presence of the World Bank,
through WSP-Senegal, provided a useful interface between the client (ONAS and the
Department of Debt and Investment (DDI)) and the World Bank disbursement
department based in Johannesburg, thus facilitating disbursements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

86.     Despite the satisfactory quality of supervision following the project restructuring,
the Overall Bank performance is deemed Moderately Satisfactory due to late project
restructuring to put the project back on track to achieve its development objective.

5.2.   Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
87.     Government commitment can be considered Moderately Satisfactory throughout
the project.

88.      During the initial phase, when project performance was mediocre, the
Government did not move quickly to get the project on track. Not until the end of the
initial project phase (after nearly two years) did the Government request that the project
be restructured, considering that it would be unacceptable to lose a grant of more than
US$5 million that could be used to improve the sanitation sector’s weak performance.

89.     During the project implementation period, sanitation was repeatedly shifted
around from ministry to ministry as a result of administrative boundary changes, which
effectively prevented central departments from monitoring this project closely.


                                            23
90.     Nevertheless, when the project was restructured in 2010, the Government decided
to provide the project with a CFAF 80 million grant, i.e. approximately US$160,000, to
make it easier for beneficiaries to pay their contribution. This support, which was
renewed in 2011 in a larger amount, totaling CFAF 100 million (approximately
US$200,000), had a significant impact in terms of reviving the project activities. In the
future, it would be helpful to renew this support and continue to promote individual
sanitation, and for ONAS to build upon the achievements of PAQPUD and GPOBA
through capitalization and staff development activities.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance

91.  Implementing agencies performance on this project can be considered
Moderately Satisfactory.

92.    Contracting authority for this project was held by ONAS with implementation
subcontracted to AGETIP through an implementation agreement.

93.     AGETIP, for its part, took some time to perceive the risks associated with failure
to meet the project objectives. AGETIP’s failure to anticipate major procurement delays,
caused by introduction of the new procurement code, just at the time of the second
request for proposals for building the facilities, is unfortunate. These delays resulted in a
situation where the construction of nearly one-third of the project facilities was
compressed into the last three months.

94.      Also unfortunate is the fact that individual sanitation has not yet secured the
position it deserves at ONAS, inasmuch as this technology appears to be the most
appropriate solution for achieving large-scale access to sanitation, along with the fact that
ONAS has not yet fully exploited the experience gained under PAQPUD. It would be
prudent for ONAS to attach greater importance to this technology by boosting the
visibility of the individual sanitation department at ONAS and hiring staff trained under
PAQPUD and GPOBA on a permanent basis.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

95.    Overall Borrower performance is deemed Moderately Satisfactory, because
without constant World Bank involvement in this project, it is likely that the final outputs
would not have been achieved.

6. Lessons Learned

96.     It would be desirable to inject greater flexibility at the time of project
development, so as to permit greater flexibility during implementation and then be in a
position to respond more quickly when problems arise, to wit:

       •   The project intervention areas should be mutable, based on demand as
           expressed by target populations. In this case, 67 percent of the facilities

                                             24
           ultimately built were located in areas not originally included in the project
           intervention area.
       •   The technological options should not be too firmly set at the outset. Thus, in
           this case, one-quarter of the facilities ultimately built were options not
           originally proposed: connections to existing condominium systems and
           construction of the superstructure by beneficiaries themselves.
       •   It should be possible for the payment percentages going to various
           stakeholders (main contractor, social engineering, construction companies,
           etc.) to evolve during project implementation.
       •   For a project designed to promote demand and behavior change, there is a
           permanent need for ongoing hygiene-related communication and awareness-
           raising campaigns; the percentage earmarked for soft inputs (studies,
           supervision, social engineering) should not be underestimated. At project
           appraisal, the percentages for main contractors (4.4 percent) and social
           engineering (7.5 percent) were clearly underestimated and had to be increased
           during the project, winding up at an average of 6.7 percent for the former and
           11.1 percent for the latter. The soft/total amount ratio thus went from 11.9 at
           the appraisal phase to 17.8 at completion.
97.     The subsidy given to beneficiaries should target the most critical components of
the facility. For individual sanitation facilities, it is recommended that priority be given to
infrastructure components (septic tanks, etc.), rather than the superstructure, which
accounts for roughly 45 percent of the total cost but does not directly affect the facility’s
operability.

98.     The principle of full payment of the beneficiary’s contribution before work can
begin appears too rigid and does not encourage participation by the most underprivileged
populations. Ways to spread out the contributions should be examined when future
projects are implemented. This could be done either (i) through the project, with well
defined requirements to be met, or (ii) by relying on microcredit organizations, with
membership arrangements and repayment rates that do not excessively increase the size
of the household contribution.

99.    The proposed facilities should first and foremost address beneficiaries’ concerns:

       •   For many households, improving the living environment through proper
           removal of washing water seemed more urgent than rehabilitation of the
           existing family latrine. Thus, household wastewater removal was more
           important to households than excreta removal. The demand for BALPs turned
           out to be as high as originally projected: 53 percent of the facilities ultimately
           built were BALPs, versus 56 percent projected at the outset, which may be
           due to the low cost of these facilities, but also reflects the concerns of
           beneficiaries, and especially women, who see these facilities as a concrete
           response to their desire to live in a healthy environment.



                                              25
       •   There was no demand for VIP latrines. This type of facility was roundly
           rejected by households, despite its relatively low price, because it clearly did
           not match up with the level of service expected by urban or semi-urban
           populations, 98 percent of whom possess safe drinking water.
100. The proposed facilities should be types that can quickly be operational so as to
stimulate interest and involvement. The demand for connections to existing condominium
systems turned out to be lower than projected, just 36 percent of the target, because
households did not want to connect to systems that were not yet fully operational.
Conversely, there was substantial interest in acquiring connections to condominium
systems already in good operating condition.

101. Certain aspects of the GPOBA intervention approach should be modified to
permit rapid project implementation. Project implementation turned out to be relatively
complicated, especially the invoicing for work performed, with three payment schedules
for each quarter and relatively complex formulas for calculating the amounts. It took a
fairly lengthy break-in period for the project team to grow familiar with this method of
invoicing.

102. The method of calculating the subsidy per facility should be absolutely explicit
because this is an important indicator for monitoring the project. In this project, the PAD
did not specify whether the subsidy ceiling was supposed to apply to each individual
facility or rather, as an average figure, to all the facilities as a whole. This point should be
spelled out clearly in upcoming projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies

(a) Grantee/Implementing Agencies

103. ONAS, the project’s contracting authority, provided a detailed project completion
report, attesting to its positive assessment of project implementation and outputs. Salient
points from this report include the following:

       •   GPOBA procedures were deemed complex and unsuited to rapid project
           implementation;
       •   The presence at the resident mission of the deputy in charge of the project
           facilitated project implementation;
       •   The principle of full payment of the beneficiary’s contribution before work
           can begin was deemed excessively rigid and unsuitable for encouraging
           participation by the most underprivileged populations.
       •   ONAS also notes that, since the work was completed, it has received a large
           number of requests from households to continue the project.




                                              26
(b) Independent Verification Agent

104. After 13 quarters of technical audits, the following lessons can be drawn from the
GPOBA technical verification mission, conducted between 2009 and 2012:

       •   There is a need for complete and detailed specifications in regard to facility
           design. Specifications in the bidding documents should be sufficiently detailed
           and discussed among stakeholders at the start of the project, i.e. contracting
           authority, subcontracting unit, main contractor, and construction companies,
           to forestall subsequent misunderstanding.
       •   Strict compliance in transmitting project implementation reports is essential
           so as to avoid disrupting the auditor’s forward planning, which can negatively
           impact mission execution (delays in field trips, reporting, etc.).
       •   There is a need to maintain the same social intermediation structures that
           guide the auditor in the field, so that time is not lost in locating and auditing
           beneficiaries’ sanitation facilities. Inasmuch as beneficiaries are reluctant to
           receive “unknown visitors? in their home, support from social intermediation
           agents is strongly advised.
       •   It is difficult to extrapolate observations from the sample to the parent
           population. Indeed, when X percent of facilities in the audited sample have
           not been built or show deficiencies, should one then deduce that X percent of
           the total population of facilities in the project implementation report have not
           been built or show the same deficiencies? This was one of the difficulties
           regularly faced during the mission to finalize the audit reports. Systematic
           application of the rule of extrapolation could penalize the subcontracting unit
           and construction companies but in fact it forces them to be more rigorous in
           performing the work. Agreement as to the rules of the game should therefore
           be reached with all stakeholders at the very outset (contracting authority, main
           contractor, construction companies, etc.); this would limit disputes over the
           conclusions of the audit report.
       •   Site visits to facilities included in the sample should be supplemented by
           telephone contact with beneficiaries to verify the existence and actual
           operability of the rest of the facilities in the project implementation report.

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders (NGOs, private sector, civil society)

Not applicable




                                            27
Annex 1 – Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project cost by component in US$


                                        Initial budget   Revised budget       Final
           Components
                                            (US$)            (US$)        disbursements

Component A                                 $5,504,000       $5,406,000       $4,883,486
A1 – Works                                  $4,518,784       $4,438,326       $3,720,765
A2 - Design/supervision                      $242,176         $237,864         $325,930
A3 - Social intermediation                   $412,800         $405,450         $543,842
A4 - AGETIP fees                             $220,160         $216,240         $195,299
A5 - ONAS fees                               $110,080         $108,120           $97,650
Component B: Monitoring and
                                              $260,000         $358,000        $231,787
Supervision
B1 - Monitoring and evaluation                $150,000         $173,000         $72,309
B2 - Audits (financial and technical)          $75,000         $150,000        $121,195
B3 - Environmental and social
                                               $35,000          $35,000         $38,284
follow-up
Total                                       $5,764,000       $5,764,000       $5,115,273




                                             28
(b) Cost breakdown for each type of sanitation facility (effective July 1, 2010)
                                  Total       Beneficiary    Beneficiary      GPOBA        GPOBA
                   Total cost
     Facility                    cost in      contribution   contribution      subsidy     subsidy
                   in CFAF
                                  US$           in CFAF         in US$        in CFAF       in US$
Septic tank
                      412,033       $824            80,000          $160       332,033         $664
(FS)

BALP                  136,493       $273            27,000           $54       109,493         $219

TCM2F                 282,882       $566            55,000          $110       227,882         $456

TCM2F – CIK           186,417       $373                 0            $0       186,417         $373

TCM2F+D               484,009       $968            95,000          $190       389,009         $778

TCM2F+D –
                      341,156       $682                 0            $0       341,156         $682
CIK

DP                    231,851       $464            45,000           $90       186,851         $374

DP – CIK              157,272       $315                 0            $0       157,272         $315

VIP latrine           212,707       $425            40,000           $80       172,707         $345

VIP – CIK             114,937       $230                 0            $0       114,937         $230

RSC                   200,819       $402            40,000           $80       160,819         $322

N.B.:
CIK - Contribution In Kind = construction of the superstructure by the beneficiaries
(c) Percentage of allocations per stakeholder for Component A
                                Budget at
                                                Percentage /          Final               Percentage /
        Component A             appraisal
                                                at appraisal      disbursements          disbursements
                                  (US$)
 A1 - Works                      $4,518,784         82.1%              $3,720,765           76.2%
 A2 - Design/supervision          $242,176          4.4%                    $325,930         6.7%
 A3 - Social
                                  $412,800          7.5%                    $543,842        11.1%
 intermediation
 A4 - AGETIP fees                 $220,160          4.0%                    $195,299         4.0%
 A5 - ONAS fees                   $110,080          2.0%                     $97,650         2.0%
           Total                 $5,504,000         100%               $4,883,486            100%



                                               29
(d) Initial calculation of financial household contributions, by type of facility
               Constr.
                             Total       Household contribution                    Subsidy amount
              company
                                                                                           Proposed       Subsidy
                                                      % of total
  Facility     82.1%         100%        in CFAF                    in CFAF     in US$     facilities,    amount
                                                       amount
                                                                                             PAD           (US$)
FS              285,446       347,681       80,000      23.0%        267,681       $600             700    420,127
BALP             95,465       116,279       27,000      23.2%         89,279       $200          8,500    1,701,504
TCM2F           199,490       242,984       55,000      22.6%        187,984       $421          4,500    1,896,701
TCM2F+
                342,796       417,535       95,000      22.8%        322,535       $723             800    578,538
D
DP              164,161       199,952       45,000      22.5%        154,952       $347             600    208,456
                                                                                                 15,100   4,805,326
                                                                                          Average
               Conversion rate U$/CFAF used for this calculation:    CFAF 446             subsidy per      US$318
                                                                                          facility
                                                                                          Average
                                                                                          subsidy per       US$35
                                                                                          beneficiary
The various amounts were calculated as follows:
     •   Total cost of one facility:
             o The costs for construction resulted from the first bid;
             o The total cost of the facility was therefore calculated as costs for
               construction companies, representing, according to the PAD, 82.1 percent
               of the total cost of the facility;
     •   The household contribution amount was fixed in relation to the amount under
         PAQPUD, and it was verified that it represents at least 20 percent of the total cost
         of the facility, in accordance with GPOBA rules;
     •   By deduction, the average subsidy amount was calculated for the proposed
         facilities, and it was verified that, on average, it remains below US$54 per person.




                                                     30
Annex 2 – Outputs by Component

(a) Component A – Breakdown of facilities built

                              Facilities                        Facilities     Facilities
                                             % / facilities                                 % / facilities
       Facilities            planned at                        planned at       built at
                                             (appraisal)                                      (final)
                             appraisal                        restructuring      final
 BALP                           8,500            56%               4,576         6,127          53%
 FS                              700              5%                853           825            7%
 TCM2F+D                         800              5%                483          1,691          15%
 TCM2F+D – CIK                  XXX              XXX               1,760         2,006          17%
 TCM2F                          4,500            30%                239           29             0%
 TCM – CIK                      XXX              XXX                550            0             0%
 DP                              600              4%                229           12             0%
 DP – CIK                       XXX              XXX                440            0             0%
 VIP latrine                    XXX              XXX                220            0             0%
 VIP latrine – CIK              XXX              XXX                550            0             0%
 TCM1F+D*                       XXX              XXX               XXX             7             0%
 RSC                            XXX              XXX               2,200          798            7%
         Total                 15,100                             12,100        11,495

 * Note that this type of facility was not planned; however, owing to constraints, a number of pour-flush
 toilets + showers (TCM+D) have had to be built with only one pit.


(b) Component A – Breakdown of facilities built, by type of use

                                                                                Total by
                    Facilities, by type of use                    Facilities                  % by use
                                                                                  use
 Excreta disposal only
   FS                                                                825           854           7.4%
   TCM2F                                                              29
 Wastewater disposal (dish, shower water, etc.) only                              6,139         53.4%
   BALP                                                             6,127
   DP                                                                12
 Mixed facility
   TCM2F+D                                                         1,691
   TCM2F+D – CIK                                                   2,006          4,502         39.2%
   TCM1F+D                                                           7
   RSC                                                              798
                        Total                                      11,495        11,495         100%




                                                 31
      (c) Component A – Breakdown of facilities built, by quarter

                                OVR1      OVR2      OVR3     OVR4     OVR5      OVR6     OVR7      OVR8     OVR9      OVR10     OVR11    OVR12     OVR13
Facilities built    Total                  Jan-     April-   July-               Jan-    April-    July-               Jan-     April-    July-
                                Oct-Dec                               Oct-Dec                               Oct-Dec                                Oct-Dec
                                          March     June     Sept               March    June      Sept               March     June      Sept
                                 2008                                  2009                                  2010                                   2011
                                          2009      2009     2009               2010     2010      2010               2011      2011      2011
BALP                 6,127          131       145      169      136        40               573     1,279       603       417      130       958     1,546
FS                    825            78       51        93       59        23                67        51        66       54         8       89        186
TCM2F+D              1,691           29       28        35       40        20                51        94        66       52        31      358        887
TCM2F+D – CIK        2,006                                                                  196       323       319      267        25      175        701
TCM2F                  29             2                 8         3         6                 3                   6                           1
TCM2F – CIK             0
DP                     12             1        2        2         3         1                 3
DP – CIK                0
VIP latrine             0
VIP latrine – CIK       0
TCM1F+D                 7                                                                                                            3        4
RSC                   798                                                                    81       261       117       89        41       92        117
Total               11,495          241      226       307      241        90        0      974     2,008     1,177      879       238     1,677     3,437


                     4,000
                     3,000
                     2,000
                     1,000
                            0
                                 Oct-Dec Jan-March April-June July-Sept Oct-Dec Jan-March April-June July-Sept Oct-Dec Jan-March April-June July-Sept Oct-Dec
                                  2008      2009     2009       2009     2009      2010     2010       2010     2010      2011     2011       2011     2011




                                                                                32
(d) Component A – Tracking of outputs and contributions collected during the project




The above graph, which was established after the project was restructured,             11,495 facilities built by the end of the project
sought to track, during bimonthly meetings, the number of facilities built and         – 95 percent of the target
contributions collected relative to the target of constructing 11,000 additional
facilities (restructuring phase), which, in addition to the 1,105 facilities already   12,477 contributions received by the end of
installed, would help achieve the end-of-project target of 12,100 facilities.          the project – 103.1 percent of the target




                                                                    33
(e-1) Component A – On-site sanitation facilities built, by intervention area

                         Intervention areas, on-        Total, by     Total, by
     Deployment                                                                    %
                          site sanitation facility        area       deployment
                        Keur Massar                       1,306
                        Malika                             714
     Initial areas      Yeumbeul                           894           3,460    32%
                        Diamaguene S.Mbao/Mbao             454
                        Wakhinane Nimzatt                   92
                        Yenn                               397
                        Sangalcam                         2,038
                        Sébikotane/Diamniadio             1,344
 First redeployment,    Ouakam                             110
                                                                         4,007    37%
         2010           Grand Médine                        23
                        Rufisque                            76
                        Yoff                                 6
                        Bargny                              13
                        Pout                               944
                        Ndiass                             246
       Second           Djander                           1,008
                                                                         3,230    30%
 redeployment, 2011     Keur Mousse                        466
                        Kayar                              559
                        Fass                                 7
                                              Total      10,697         10,697    100%

(e-2) Component A – Connections to condominium systems, by intervention area

            Areas with condominium
                                            Target        Built          %
                    systems
           Ngor                                88            9         10%
           Ouakam                             778          449         58%
           Yoff                               636          197         31%
           Mbao                               137          121         88%
           Hann Bel Air                       205            0          0%
           Rufisque-Est                       232            9          4%
           Bargny                             124           13         10%
                     Total                   2,200         798         36%




                                            34
Annex 3 – Economic and Financial Analysis

1. To assess project efficiency, a cost-benefit analysis was first planned, but this
   assumed that the extra costs and benefits could be quantified, with data collected in a
   comparable fashion in situations with and without the project. However, the
   availability of data on pre-project benefits was uncertain and the post-project benefits
   could not be accurately determined without sufficient perspective given the recent
   completion of the sanitation facilities.
2. Assessments of the health benefits of sanitation are difficult to quantify because it is
   not necessarily clear that the benefits obtained in a project intervention area are due
   solely to this sanitation operation, independent of other possible causes
   (improvements to health, education, and hygiene services, etc..). Nonetheless, the
   health benefits of sanitation are numerous:
       •   Less school absenteeism;
       •   Less time spent by parents providing health care to themselves or their
           children and, as a result, greater opportunity to increase their income;
       •   Lower health expenses incurred for diseases caused by poor hygiene; and
       •   Time saved, principally by women, for activities associated with household
           wastewater removal.
3. It was therefore deemed preferable to proceed with a cost-effectiveness analysis,
   which seeks to assess unit costs (per person and per household) in order to
   demonstrate that the technological choices adopted for this project are the most
   effective ones in economic terms. An analysis of the GPOBA beneficiaries' subsidy
   rate, compared to the rate for households connected to sewerage systems, was also
   performed, and this shows that the subsidies needed to build individual or
   condominium sanitation facilities are between 2 and 2.5 times lower than those
   required for building sewerage systems of a waterborne sewerage system type.

Economic Analysis

4. The contributions of the various financing sources for the operations are summarized
   in the table below.
                                                           Final
                                                                           Percentage /
                 Source of Funds                      disbursements
                                                                          source of funds
                                                          (US$)
 External assistance                                    $5,115,273             80.6%
 Households, including cost of in-kind
                                                        $1,234,728             19.4%
 contribution and government support
                      Total                             $6,350,001             100%

The GPOBA is therefore providing the bulk of financing (80 percent) for this project,
while the beneficiaries have contributed 20 percent to acquire on-site sanitation facilities,
in accordance with GPOBA rules.

                                             35
5. In Senegal the sewerage system is fully subsidized. Beneficiaries receive an average
   subsidy of US$273 to have access to this service. However, persons with on-site
   sanitation facilities must pay US$22 and receive a US$86 subsidy to secure a
   TCM2F+D, the on-site sanitation facility offering the best level of service.
It is therefore apparent that persons with on-site sanitation facilities are receiving a lower
subsidy than those with access to the sewerage system, although they generally tend to be
the poorest population groups who live on the outskirts of the cities.
6. With a view to ensuring the operation and maintenance of the sewerage system,
   ONAS includes a sanitation fee on the water bill. This fee is collected in cities with a
   sewerage network—including Dakar—from households connected to the drinking
   water system, whether or not they are connected to the sewerage networks.
7. While the money collected through this sanitation fee is the primary and most stable
   source of revenue for ONAS, it is spent entirely on network maintenance and
   operations.
8. Based on the current tariff structure for urban centers in Senegal, a household (nine
   persons with a daily per-person consumption of 35 liters, which is below the
   maximum 20 m3 bimonthly subsidized tranche) will pay an annual sanitation fee of
   US$2, whether or not this household is connected to the sewerage system.
   Households with on-site sanitation facilities will also have to pay for waste removal
   from their septic tank.


Annual Sanitation User Fees for a Household
                                       User contribution -         User contribution – on-
        Annual user fees
                                        sewerage system             site sanitation system
 Sanitation fee                              US$2                            US$2
 Waste removal costs
 (assuming waste is removed                   US$0                         US$36
 once a year)
            Total per household              US$2                          US$38
                Total per person            US$0.27                       US$4.27

9. All told, each year, an individual with an on-site sanitation facility will pay US$4.27
   in user fees, primarily related to waste removal from his septic tank, of which the sum
   of US$0.27 is used to subsidize the sewerage system to which he does not have
   access, while an individual who is connected to the sewerage system will pay only
   US$0.27 in user fees for a service from which he will actually benefit.
10. To ensure more equitable access to sanitation services, it is essential therefore to:
       •   Increase the subsidy for on-site sanitation to the same level as that provided
           for the sewerage system;
       •   Revise the tariff structure for the sanitation component, ensuring that the
           sanitation fee amount is commensurate with the type of sanitation facility
           possessed (connection to the main sewer system, on-site sanitation facilities,
                                             36
           connection to condominium systems), so as to ensure that users actually pay
           for the service being provided to them.


Financial Analysis

11. Given the full range of available sanitation technologies, which includes the
    traditional sewerage system, this project promotes mainly on-site sanitation solutions
    and connections to existing condominium systems. These two options offer similar
    benefits to households in terms of improved disposal of both excreta and wastewater.
12. Therefore, the financial analysis is based on the cost-effectiveness of the proposed
    options, the feasibility of which may also be contingent on other considerations, such
    as soil conditions (permeability), the proximity of existing sewers, and hydraulic
    conditions. The table below provides the unit cost per capita of the various options
    and shows that the sewerage system is clearly the costliest option at US$273 per
    capita, whereas condominium and on-site sanitation systems offer lower costs,
    ranging from US$40 to US$117.
Average investment costs of the various sanitation options


                  Type of sanitation service                  Unit cost per person
                                                                 served (US$)
   Sewerage*:
   Sewerage connection (including tertiary network)                    $103
   Sewers and pumping stations                                          $90
   Wastewater treatment                                                 $80
                                                Full cost              $273
   Condominium sanitation*:
   House connection, small-bore network and treatment                  $103
   (full cost)
   On-site sanitation (full cost, incl. sludge treatment
   plant facilities):
   •Septic tank (FS)                                                   $101
   •Washing facility/soakaway pit (BALP)                                $40
   •Pour-flush toilet + soakaway pit (TCM2F)                            $72
   •Pour-flush toilet + shower/soakaway pit (TCM2F+D)                  $117
   •Shower/soakaway pit (DP)                                            $61
   •Ventilated Improved Pit (VIP) latrine                               $57
* Source: PELT-ICR.




                                           37
Annex 4 – Grant Preparation and Implementation
Support/Supervision Process
(a) Task Team members

        Names                     Title              Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Sylvie Debomy               Sr. Urban Planner       AFTU2             TTL

Miguel Vargas Ramirez        WSS Specialist         LCSUW      Water and sanitation
                              Infrastructure
Yogita Mumssen                                      GPOBA         Infrastructure
                                Specialist
Priyanka Sood                  Consultant           GPOBA      Water and sanitation
Sidi Boubacar                 Lead Counsel          LEGAF            Lawyer
                             Sr. Procurement
Bourama Diaite                                      AFTPC         Procurement
                                 Specialist
                          Financial Management
Saidou Diop                                         AFTFM     Financial management
                                 Specialist
                            Sr. Environmental
Yves Prevost                                        AFTS4          Safeguards
                                 Specialist
Ousseynou Diop              Sr. WSS Specialist      ETWAF           Sanitation

Supervision/ICR
                             Lead Water &
Matar Fall                                          AFTUW             TTL
                           Sanitation Specialist
Pierre Boulenger               Consultant           AFTUW      Water and sanitation
                             Sr. Procurement
Sidy Diop                                           AFTPC         Procurement
                                 Specialist
                          Financial Management
Fatou Samba Fall                                    AFCF1     Financial management
                                  Analyst
Sung Heng Kok Shun        Sr. Program Assistant     AFTUW     Administrative support


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project
                                                        US$ (including travel and
     Cycle                  No. of staff weeks
                                                            consultant costs)
Lending                              9                          $178,683
Supervision/ICR                      32                         $241,608




                                               38
Annex 5 – Beneficiary Survey Results

Sample size
1.      Of a total of 11,495 households benefiting from the project, 589 were surveyed.
This figure represents 5.1 percent of all households, broken down by type of facility in
the table below.
                    Type of facility          Number         Percentage
                TCM2F+D                            179         30.4%
                BALP                               254         43.1%
                FS                                  61         10.4%
                TCM2F                                6          1.0%
                DP                                   6          1.0%
                TCM1F+D                             11          1.9%
                RSC                                 72         12.2%
                                   Total           589         100 %


Types of sanitation facilities possessed previously
2.      The review of the initial access by GPBOA beneficiaries to a sanitation system
shows that 49 percent of them did not have access to an adequate sanitation system. Of
this percentage, almost one-fifth had traditional latrines, while four-fifths (39 percent)
defecated in the open if they did not have access to their neighbors’ latrines.
Reasons for selecting the requested facilities
3.     A cross analysis of the sanitation system previously possessed by GPOBA
beneficiary households and the type of facility requested reveals that just 42 percent of
households who asked for that a BALP initially had access to a modern sanitation system,
while 51 percent had access to none. Based on this report, the BALP cannot be viewed as
an additional facility providing increased convenience to adequately equipped
households, but instead as a real need for the beneficiaries.
4.     The main reasons for choosing the facility requested are:
       •   The need for on-site facilities;
       •   Reducing the household workload;
       •   The quality expected of the facility when the application is submitted;
       •   The price (deemed affordable); and
       •   Poor functioning of current facilities.
5.      The main sanitation-related difficulties faced by the beneficiaries prior to
acquisition of the facilities are:
       •   The lack of latrines and the embarrassment caused by alternative options (use
           of neighbors’ latrines and open defecation);

                                              39
       •   Household wastewater disposal;
       •   Wastewater removal and disposal costs (payment for household wastewater
           disposal);
       •   Persistent odors and olfactory pollution; and
       •   Frequency of waste removal.
Household composition
6.      The targeted households are relatively large, with an average of 12 members
(12.43 in urban areas, 11.58 in peri-urban areas, 10.88 in rural areas).
Information sources
7.      Word of mouth appears to be the most commonly used method of disseminating
information on the project, thus suggesting that there was adequate outreach at the
community level. However, it should be noted that the sources cited are largely
community sources, and beneficiaries tend to cite the last information source or the one
most readily accessible to them in their community. With respect to the question,
therefore, on “information sources,? which provided “other, please specify? as one of the
responses, an analysis of these responses shows that television was cited but by a very
small percentage (three responses).

                     Information sources               Percentage
                 Radio                                     8%
                 Newspaper                                 9%
                 Word of mouth                            60%
                 Meeting                                   3%
                 Posters                                   4%
                 Other                                    16%
                 Don’t know                                1%
                                       Total             100%

Configuration of the stakeholders with respect to choice of sanitation facility
8.      The choice of facility was most commonly made by women only, followed by
joint decisions made by men and women.
                 Is the choice of facility made by men        Total
                 or women?
                 By women only                                 25.10%
                 Primarily by women                            11.50%
                 Joint decision (man and woman)                24.50%
                 Primarily by men                               3.80%
                 By men only                                   18.70%
                 One facility only available                   16.20%
                 Don’t know                                     0.20%
                                                   Total      100.00%

                                            40
Assessment of the amount paid to acquire the facility
9.     We note that a positive view of the costs of the facilities proposed by the project
was widely shared by the beneficiaries, with 91.3 percent indicating that the costs are
affordable, thus suggesting that they are within reach.
                                                        Subsidy
    Assessment of the amount
                                           Unsubsidized    Subsidized household
    paid to acquire the facility
                                            household         (national budget)
    Not high                                  44.7%                 36.6%
    Reasonable                                48.9%                 54.5%
    High                                       2.1%                  4.5%
    Very high                                   0%                   2.2%
    Prohibitive                                 0%                   0.2%
    Other                                      4.3%                   2%
                               Total         100.0%                100.0%

10.     Beneficiaries who did not receive a state subsidy account for the highest
proportion of those who believe that the cost of the facilities is affordable. Far from being
paradoxical, the fact that a higher percentage of subsidized households believe that the
cost of the facilities is either high or very high justifies the rationale for this subsidy. In
other words, without this subsidy, these households would most definitely not have paid
to acquire the facility.
Frequency of waste removal
11.    The construction of new sanitation facilities has reduced the frequency of waste
removal from 3.6 disposals per year to 1.5. It may, however, be too early to draw
conclusions in this regard as most of the facilities were only recently delivered.
Information on the procedure followed to acquire a sanitation facility
12.    A majority of the beneficiary households (79.8 percent) indicated that they waited
between one and five weeks after submitting their application for a sanitation facility
before receiving feedback from project officials; the typical waiting period was two
weeks.
                 Waiting period for households after
            submission of application for construction of           Percentage
                             the facility
           0 - 5 weeks                                                  79.8%
           6 - 11 weeks                                                  8.7%
           12 - 17 weeks                                                 5.5%
           18 weeks or more                                               6%
                                                     Total             100.0%




                                              41
Use of the facility by neighboring households
13.      Although the beneficiary households have indicated that they no longer use their
neighbors’ latrines, their own neighbors are now using their sanitation facilities, which
suggests that there are still pockets of unsanitary conditions, as well as paucity of
infrastructure for households in the project’s intervention areas. From another
perspective, the use of the GPOBA facilities by neighbors could be seen as a positive
development, as this contributes to a reduction in open defecation, thus mitigating the
risk of fecal contamination.
               Does a neighboring household use your
                                                                      Total
               facility?
               Yes, frequently                                     10.70%
               Yes, sometimes                                      12.70%
               No                                                  76.60%
                                                    Total          100.0%

Assessment of health expenses incurred for diseases related to poor hygiene
14.      More than half (56.3 percent) of the beneficiaries saw a reduction in their health
expenses for diseases related to poor hygiene—the treatment of diseases such as
dermatoses, diarrhea, eye infections, schistosomiasis, cholera, and all other diseases that
the beneficiaries attributed to unsanitary conditions, whether medically proven or not.
Their health expenses for diseases related to poor hygiene fell from CFAF 96,100 before
the construction of the facilities to CFAF 52,123 following acquisition of the GPOBA
facilities, a reduction of 46 percent of the total annual average health expenses that
amounted to CFAF 256,968. However, 41 percent of the beneficiaries indicated that
there has been no change in their health care costs.
       Trends in health expenses incurred for diseases related to
                                                                         Percentage
             poor hygiene in project beneficiary households
     Decreased significantly                                                  22.3%
     Decreased                                                                34.0%
     No change                                                                40.8%
     Increased                                                                 0.8%
     Don’t know                                                                2.1%
                                                              Total           100.0%

Impact of the facilities on the beneficiaries’ living conditions
15.      Some 76.8 percent of the beneficiaries indicated that the acquisition of sanitation
facilities had resulted in the following improvements in their living conditions:
       •   Reduced mosquito population;
       •   Reduced workloads for women; and
       •   Lower waste removal costs.
16.   The table below provides a more detailed picture of the extent of these
improvements.
                                            42
             Generally speaking, to what extent has the
          acquisition of a sanitation system improved your        Total
                           living conditions?
         Significantly improved                                  34.70%
         Improved                                                42.10%
         Improved somewhat                                        7.60%
         No change                                               14.30%
         Don’t know                                               1.30%
                                                       Total     100.0%

Reduced workloads for women
17.    The GPOBA sanitation facilities have helped lighten the workload of women and
improve their working environment. However, these construction works caused a number
of inconveniences and problems for 12.5 percent of women—a relatively high proportion
in our view—pertaining to the frequency of nuisances, inconveniences, or the negative
impact of this type of project.


               Reduced workloads for women                   Percentage
        Strongly agree                                         61.2%
        Agree                                                  32.9%
        Do not agree                                            2.8%
        Strongly disagree                                       1.3%
        Don’t know                                              1.7%
                                                Total         100.0%




                                         43
 Results monitoring indicators


N°                    Indicators                        Unit         Baseline       At project completion

1    Completion rate: number of facilities built           U                                    11,495

     Total number of households with improved
2                                                          #                                    103,455
     access to sanitation facilities

     Level of satisfaction with facilities, based     good, fair,
3                                                                     fair, poor                  good
     on surveys: good, fair, poor                       poor

     Condition of inspected facilities: good, fair,   good, fair,
4                                                                     fair, poor                  good
     poor                                               poor

     Average monthly income of household                                                      $557
5                                                        US$             330
     beneficiaries                                                                       (CFAF 278,308)
                                                                                              $455
     Average monthly spending on service
                                                                                        (CFAF 227,768),
6    maintenance by OBA project beneficiary              US$
                                                                                    Average monthly household
     households
                                                                                            expenses
7    Average investment per facility                     US$             617                      $483

8    Average subsidy per facility                        US$             487                      $409
     Are there any prospects for extending this
9    project and/or are there any plans to                                              Not identified to date
     replicate this project elsewhere?
     For comparison purposes: average subsidy
                                                                                               $2,457
10   required to achieve similar results in              US$
                                                                                           sewerage system
     identical circumstances
                                                                    Malaria 27 %    56.3% of the beneficiaries cited
     Number of waterborne diseases per year
                                                                     Run disease       a reduction in their health
11   and per household benefiting from the                 %
                                                                       23.3%         expenses related to a lack of
     OBA project                                                                                hygiene
                                                                    Cholera 34.4%

     Other observed effects drawn from various                                       76.8% of the beneficiaries said
                                                                                    that the acquisition of sanitation
12   surveys: benefits in terms of health, time         XXX
                                                                                      facilities has improved their
     gains, savings, etc.                                                                    living conditions

                                                                                     Reduced household workload
     Impact on gender: what sort of impact                                                   for women;
                                                                                    Improvement in the environment
13   (positive or negative) has this project had        XXX
                                                                                      and working conditions for
     on women and girls?                                                            women, in particular with regard
                                                                                          to dedicated tasks




                                                      44
Annex 6 – Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                            45
Annex 7 – Summary of Grantee’s ICR and/or Comments on
Draft ICR
I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND START-UP
1.1 Background:
1.1.1   Political Context
In Senegal in 2007, presidential elections were held on February 25 and legislative
elections were held on June 13. This period was marked by the risk of instability
stemming from potential unresolved disputes.
These elections were characterized by low voter turnout, a demonstration of no-
confidence for political disaffection.
1.1.2   Economic and Social Situation
In 2007, Senegal had a very young and rapidly growing population of more than 11.5
million people, with more than 2.4 million of whom lived in the Dakar region that
comprises 0.3 percent of the country’s geographic area. Over half of the country’s urban
population (52.6 percent) lives in the Dakar region, including the largest number of
teachers in the private sector (84.3 percent of the teaching cohort).
In 2007, 1,360 institutions were established, resulting in the creation of 6,543 new jobs,
of which 5,007 (76.5 percent) were permanent workers and 1,586 temporary workers.
Nearly two-thirds of the new institutions (65.4 percent) are located in the Dakar region.
The 2007/2008 rainy season was characterized by a late start and early end to the rains,
leading to a reduction in the area sown with cereal crops and in turn to lower yields for
millet, sorghum, rice, and main foodstuffs. As a result, agriculture’s contribution to the
economy declined (5.2 percent of GDP), triggering a rural exodus to urban areas.
1.1.3   Situation and Major Problems
The rapid pace of urbanization poses major problems in terms of water supply and
sanitation, household waste management, and industrial pollution.
The analysis of the financial institutions reveals that the sector remained buoyant in 2007.
In an international context marked by soaring oil prices and declining agricultural yields,
Senegal’s economic growth rate was 4.7 percent in 2007. This year was also marked by a
sharp increase in prices—5.5 percent nationwide.
Senegal had a high inflation rate of 5.9 percent in 2007, compared to 2.7 percent in 2006,
which is above the norm of 3 percent established in the West African Economic and
Monetary Union convergence criteria. Higher prices for goods and services such as
housing, water, electricity, gas, and other fuels (+10 percent) and food products and non-
alcoholic beverages (+7.3 percent) contributed significantly to the difficult start of the
GPOBA program. In fact, low-income populations in peri-urban areas found it extremely
difficult to mobilize household counterpart funds.



                                            46
ONAS’s contribution of an initial subsidy totaling US$80 million in 2010 and then a
subsidy amounting to US$100 million in 2011 to household counterpart funding through
the BCI helped salvage the GPOBA project.
This GPOBA project is a dynamic follow-up to PAQPUD and seeks to ensure the
sustainability of on-site sanitation systems, with improved targeting and a more precise
definition of expected outcomes, as well as effective subsidy targeting.
1.1.4       Institutional Framework
In 2007, the following stakeholders comprised the institutional framework:
-     The Ministry of Urban Development, Housing, Urban Water, and Sanitation
      (MUHHA) supervises several technical departments that are represented in the
      regions;
-     The Water and Sanitation Millennium Project (PEPAM), established in 2005, seeks to
      design an investment program through to 2015, combine and pilot all the WSS
      initiatives conducted in Senegal, divide responsibilities among the various
      “implementing agencies,? and organize annual reviews attended by all stakeholders;
-     Civil society is involved in drinking water and sanitation efforts through the
      NGOs/CBOs, consumer interest groups, and water user associations (Associations
      d’usagers de forages ruraux, ASUFOR);
-     Local governments with limited resources serve as the contracting authority for
      small-scale water and sanitation projects in collaboration with the State’s technical
      departments;
-     The National Water Corporation of Senegal (SONES) is in charge of assets and
      investments;
-     The Senegalese Water Company (SDE) is the private operator for water services of
      the public-private partnership framework and is responsible for operating water
      supply for the urban centers; and
-     The National Sanitation Agency of Senegal (ONAS) is responsible for assets and
      investments as regards domestic and industrial wastewater treatment and stormwater
      drainage in cities where SONES operates.
1.2        Project Objectives
1.2.1       Long-Term Objectives
Improved long-term access by populations in Dakar’s peri-urban areas to on-site
sanitation services. The project aims to build 15,100 sanitation facilities over 18 months
to provide services to close to 153,900 beneficiaries.
1.2.2       Short-Term Objectives
    (i)       A greater number of poor households have access to an adequate sanitation
              system;
    (ii)      Environmental and health-related problems for the populations and the
              neighborhoods are reduced in general; and


                                             47
    (iii)      Subsidies are clearly used.


1.2.3        Expected Outcomes
The main outcomes expected of this project were the construction of 15,100 sanitation
facilities, as originally planned at appraisal and reduced to 12,100 once the project was
restructured, by end-2011, broken down in the following manner:
-  1,100 facilities were built during the first phase of the project, ie up to the project’s
   restructuration;
- Once the project was restructured, it was planned to distinguish its implementation
   between two phases: (i) a short term one (February 15 – May 31, 2010), or
   emergency phase, for the construction of 2,500 facilities (1,500 on-site facilities and
   1,000 connections to condominium systems) and (ii) a medium and long term phase
   (June 2010 – December 2011) for the construction of 8,500 on-site facilities.
The project will benefit a total 108,900 beneficiaries, based on a nine-member household
with a maximum subsidy of US$54 per person.
1.2.4        Intervention areas
Five communes in the districts of Dakar’s suburbs officially receive the GPOBA subsidy:
Diamaguene Sicap Mbao, Yeumbeul Nord and Yeumbeul Sud; Keur Massar; Malika, and
Wakhinane Nimzatt. However, after a year and a half of construction works in these
communities that had already benefited under PAQPUD, the project reached the
saturation point and was extended to other communities, with a view to achieving results.
On-site sanitation facilities were built in Sangalkam, Ndiass, Diamniadio, Sébikotane,
Pout, Djander, Kayar, and Yenn, while condominium systems were installed in Ngor,
Ouakam, Yoff, Mbao, Hann Bel Air, Rufisque Est, and Bargny.
1.3         Project Components
1.3.1        Targets for each component and expected outcomes
The GPOBA has two components:
- Component A: Installation of on-site sanitation facilities at a cost of US$5,503,032
A1- Works
A2- Design /supervision - main contractor
A3- Social Intermediation - NGO/CBO
A4- AGETIP fees
A5- ONAS fees
This component seeks to provide access to sanitation facilities for 12,100 households in
the Dakar region, with 108,900 beneficiaries on the basis of the following: 1 facility per
nine-member household and a per-person subsidy of US$54.




                                              48
Distribution of investments with a view to output-based payments to stakeholders

                         Distribution up to Q7      Distribution since Q8 (July
    Stakeholders
                            (June 30, 2010)                   1, 2010)
A1- Construction
                                82.10%                       75.20%
companies
A2- Main contractor              4.40%                        7.04%
A3- CBOs/NGOs                    7.50%                       11.76%
A4- AGETIP                       4.00%                        4.00%
A5- ONAS                         2.00%                        2.00%


- Component B: Monitoring and Evaluation at a cost of US$260,000
B1- Monitoring and Evaluation
B2- Audits
B3- Environmental and Social Follow-up. This component aims to establish a monitoring
and evaluation system, a technical audit, and environmental and social follow-up in this
OBA program.
The total grant amount for these two components is US$5,763,032: US$2,881,000 from
the Netherlands (DGIS); US$2,881,000 from the United Kingdom (DFID).


Subsidy level

Average beneficiary contribution/GPOBA subsidy for the construction of a facility


          contribution / subsidy


                                         GPOBA (77%)

                                         beneficiaries
                                         (23%)




Withdrawals
Disbursements under the grant agreement will be made on the basis of the components.
In accordance with Senegal’s financing parameters, the disbursement percentages will be

                                          49
set at 100 percent (exclusive of all taxes), while 100 percent of expenditures will be
authorized for operating costs.
The following table presents the categories to be funded by the GPOBA grant, the
amounts for each category, and the percentage of the expenditures financed in each
category.
                                      GPOBA
             Category                               % of expenditures to be financed
                                 allocation in US$
      Component A                       $5,503,032 100% of foreign expenditures and
1     On-site sanitation                           100% of local expenditures exclusive
      facilities                                   of taxes
      Component B                         $260,000 100% of foreign expenditures and
      Consulting services for                      100% of local expenditures exclusive
2
      monitoring, audits, and                      of taxes
      evaluations
      Total                              $5,763,032
Withdrawal applications will include a bank statement and a reconciliation of the special
account and other documents.
Financial management
For this OBA project, in addition to standard financial management fiduciary
requirements, the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to be used as the basis for
periodic disbursements should include the following items: (i) an up-to-date list of
facilities to be constructed and the related pre-agreed unit costs; (ii) a certified list of
installed facilities; and (iii) the product of the number of facilities multiplied by their unit
costs and added to reflect the disbursement request total.


1.4    Organization and execution of the project by the oversight ministry and the other
       ministries and agencies involved in execution of the project
ONAS is the contracting authority and is tasked with overall implementation and
supervision.
AGETIP is the subcontracting authority and is responsible for concluding contracts
for the execution of projects, in accordance with the technical procedures manual. This
entails, among other activities: (i) the recruitment, supervision, and payment of
construction companies, consultant engineers, and CBOs/NGOs; (ii) works supervision;
and (iii) the submission of an implementation report to ONAS and requests for payment.
GPOBA funds are transferred into a special account managed by DDI.
The construction companies are responsible for building the facilities, ensuring proper
execution of the works, selecting, hiring, and paying the workers involved in the project,
and ensuring final delivery.
Consultant engineering firms (main contractors) are responsible for conducting
technical studies and supervising works.

                                              50
Community-based           Organizations       and     Non-Governmental        Organizations
(CBOs/NGOs) are responsible for social intermediation activities (demand generation,
eligibility and feasibility verification, collection of contributions, hygiene and sanitation
education, and monitoring).
The technical auditor is responsible for conducting quarterly sample checks of the
facilities built with GPOBA funding; the sample will be defined by ONAS. This technical
auditor will conduct an annual review of procurement procedures and the technical
quality of the facilities.
The financial auditor is tasked with conducting annual audits of the project’s financial
statements prepared by ONAS, and preparing an annual report on internal audits.
Environmental consultants/auditors will conduct regular environmental evaluations
and the final evaluation.


II. PROJECT DESIGN, EXECUTION, IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT


2.1 Evaluation of project design
The Output-Based Aid (OBA) approach seeks to ensure the efficient use of funds
allocated to needy populations by linking outcomes to disbursements. Unlike the typical
plan, the service provider also assumes some of the risks as payments are made after
outputs have been delivered. However, the donor must ensure that a rapid and efficient
payment system is put in place by simplifying the procedures manual.


2.2 Main outcomes obtained in each project component
     2.2.1 Component A: Investment, construction of facilities
     2.2.1.1 Physical investment component
-    The services of six firms 2 with experience in constructing on-site sanitation facilities
     were contracted on the basis of a call for bids;
-    118 Community Development Officers (CDOs) were tasked with disseminating
     positive messages that could lead to behavioral changes and generate demand;
-    Studies on the cost of on-site facilities and connections to the condominium system
     were updated;
-    10,697 on-site facilities were constructed and 798 connections to condominium
     systems were made—a total of 11,495 facilities constructed (95 percent of the target);
-    Condominium systems (treatment plant, pumping station, network) were rehabilitated
     and completed;


2
    ECBTP, KEGTB, PLURIEL/SGE and MARONA, MAXIBAT, ETPA


                                              51
-    13 technical audits of the facilities built were conducted;
-    25 areas (20 urban communities and 5 rural communities) were covered; and
-    12,477 contributions (103.1 percent of the target) were collected.
     2.2.1.2 Training component
-    This component sought to build the capacity of the program’s stakeholders and
     partners in hygiene and sanitation;
-    The program provides support to AGETIP to build local private sector capacity in the
     areas of technical and environmental expertise, cost identification, environmental
     management of work sites, and the organization of small construction companies, as
     well as support to help build on the project’s experience.
     2.2.1.3 Social engineering component
-    Prior to the call for bids, the beneficiary households in the project intervention areas
     must be advised of the opportunity offered by the project to acquire a sanitation
     facility. All households are eligible for the OBA program. Population mobilization
     techniques were developed by the NGOs and CBOs to generate demand and change
     behaviors in households with respect to hygiene and sanitation.
-    Several activities were conducted:
        -   23 kick-off ceremonies in the various project areas attended by the mayors or
            leaders of rural communities;
        -   72 television ads on RTS, Walf, 2 STV, and TFM;
        -   51 radio ads on Walf, RFM, Zik FM, and Sud FM;
        -   96,000 households canvassed (door to door);
        -   51 road shows or traveling publicity campaigns organized in 20 areas;
        -   8 talent contests organized in the areas to which the project was recently
            extended;
        -   116 community meetings and 15 meetings with the Condominium System
            Management Committees (COGES) organized in the districts;
        -   1,000 T-shirts and 200 posters produced;
        -   16,500 follow-up visits conducted by the coordinators.


    2.2.2   Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation
       2.2.2.1 Strengthening of the public-private partnership
-    A partnership agreement was concluded with PAMECAS in September 2009;
-    The success of the public-private partnership is due to engagement of the private
     sector actors (consulting firms, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), etc.) who
     derived several benefits from this partnership, including:
         - A shift by construction companies toward the sanitation sector, owing to signs
            of saturation in the construction and public works sector; and
         - Payments to construction companies as an incentive to take an interest in
            sanitation.


                                              52
      2.2.2.2 Capacity building of SMEs and private operators
-   The training modules cover various areas (SARAR/PHAST, community
    management, on-site sanitation technologies, condominium systems, and sludge
    management) and seek to build the capacities of the various stakeholders in the
    following areas:
       -   Acquisition of the necessary sanitation tools;
       -   Technological options relating to sanitation; and
       -   Management of sanitation facilities.
      2.2.2.3 Compliance with environmental and social safeguard policies
-   The bidding documents pertaining to the construction of facilities will stipulate that
    the proposed facilities must be in compliance with environmental and social
    regulations;
-   During bid evaluation, AGETIP will ensure that the description of the facilities is not
    in conflict with environmental regulations and requirements pertaining to the location
    of water points, water abstraction levels and permits, pipe laying, and any other
    relevant regulations. Environmental and social safeguard specifications outlined in
    the project’s environmental and social framework document and any other documents
    relating to the environment or resettlement must be complied with and included in the
    technical documents, including construction contracts.
-   AGETIP will also ensure that the content of the bids for the construction of sanitation
    facilities complies with national regulations with respect to the distance to the nearest
    water point (by connection or standpipe).
-   All non-compliant bids will be rejected.
2.3 Project coordination and management

2.3.1 Responsibilities of the coordinator

      2.3.1.1 Monitoring and evaluation of the program
-   Monitor program implementation in collaboration with AGETIP;
-   Approve the project implementation program submitted by AGETIP to ONAS;
-   Verify and approve the project implementation report submitted to ONAS;
-   Approve the quarterly reports prepared by the technical auditor (OVRs); and
-   Monitor GIS database population.
      2.3.1.2 Audit follow-up
Technical audits
       - Provide the technical auditor with the core documents (project implementation
          program and project implementation report) for each quarter;
       - Approve the samples with the technical auditor; and
       - Approve the draft and final reports.
Financial audits
      - Ensure that the recommendations of the financial audit are implemented, in
           consultation with ONAS’s Financial Department.


                                             53
    2.3.1.3 Environmental and social follow-up
-   Ensure that the environmental recommendations are included in all contracts; and
-   Supervise the introduction of focal points and conduct joint environmental monitoring
    operations at the work sites.
    2.3.1.4 Tracking of monitoring indicators
-   Identify and develop monitoring indicators;
-   Develop the collection methodology; and
-   Prepare the monitoring indicators table every six months.
    2.3.1.5 Project coordination and promotion
-   Organize regular meetings with AGETIP (at least once a month) and work sessions, if
    necessary;
-   Organize and participate in supervision missions;
-   Propose initiatives that could move the project forward (innovative ideas); and
-   Revise the operational manual to enhance project effectiveness.


2.3.2 Relations between the project coordinator and policy makers (all relevant
entities)
Relations between the project coordinator and policy makers were good during
implementation of the project.


2.3.3 Relations between the project coordinator and entities with responsibility for
the components
The relations between the project coordinator and implementation entities were good. At
ONAS, the coordinator received support and clarification as needed. Relations with
AGETIP were also good, except whenever there were problems with the financial
management component. The tardy submission of quarterly reports by AGETIP, which
were not sent at the same time as the audit reports, should also be noted.
Despite convening on an irregular basis, monthly meetings between the directors of
ONAS and AGETIP made it possible to overcome a number of major difficulties.


2.3.4 Lessons Learned
The project was coordinated by a consultant who was a former head of the on-site
sanitation department at ONAS (environmental and on-site sanitation expert), with
support from ONAS’s financial and accounting departments. This expert, drawing on his
experience as a former PAQPUD coordinator, ensured the project’s overall coordination,
donor coordination, the provision of some 15 quarterly reports, as well as performance
monitoring and evaluation, and financial management indicators through the preparation
of 13 financial monitoring reports (FMRs), which were submitted in a timely manner.
Project coordination would be enhanced if the coordinator is an external consultant with
administrative and signing authority. This consultant will be supported by a focal point at
                                            54
ONAS, and the organization of monthly or bimonthly meetings with the directors would
be extremely valuable.
Several factors contributed to the success of the project, including: (i) close monitoring
through on-site visits, the organization of weekly (ONAS/AGETIP), monthly
(ONAS/AGETIP/World Bank), and bimonthly (ONAS and AGETIP directors) meetings;
(ii) the use of local labor (CBOs, CDOs, laborers, artisans, municipal employees, etc.)
trained in communication technologies and tools, which helped lay a true foundation for
the effective participation of local populations in the project; and (iii) the preparation of a
financial monitoring report each quarter, which outlines how funds were used and the
application of the principles of economy and efficiency.
Since completion of work on the ground, ONAS has received several applications as well
as requests that the project be continued.


    2.4   Impact of the project on the implementation of the national policy on poverty
          reduction and social protection
The project has provided poor populations in 23 towns in the peri-urban areas of Dakar
with access to adequate sanitation facilities. Some 11,490 facilities have significantly
improved the living conditions of 103,410 persons.
The main changes enjoyed by the beneficiaries are as follows:
-     Less frequent waste removal;
-     Reduction in or cessation of open defecation;
-     Cessation of wastewater discharge into the streets;
-     Lighter household workload for women;
-     Reduction, in places, of mosquito populations;
-     Reduction in hygiene-related diseases;
-     End to the use of neighbors’ latrines;
-     Lower levels of poor hygiene in compounds and in the streets; and
-     Positive change in behaviors relating to household wastewater management.
More than half of the beneficiaries (56.3 percent) with incomes averaging CFAF 132,
749 had lower health expenses related to poor hygiene. In fact, their health expenses for
hygiene-related diseases fell 46 percent from CFAF 96,100 prior to construction of the
facilities to CFAF 52,123 after acquiring the GPOBA facilities.

Demand is highest for the BALP (47.8 percent) and TCM2F+D (33.7 percent). There is
still very little demand for the TCM2F (1.1 percent), the DP, and the TCM1F+D (2.1
percent).




                                              55
III. ASSESSMENT OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE WORLD BANK AND THE
GOVERNMENT, AND OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

3.1 Assessment of the activities of the World Bank during project execution
3.1.1 Main decisions that favored project execution
-   The signing of the agreement on July 6, 2007;
-   The deposit of the start-up advance of CFAF 250 million into the special account on
    February 1, 2008;
-   Regular supervision missions;
-   The appointment of a Team Leader based at the World Bank’s country office in
    Dakar made it possible to obtain no-objections, monitor files, and engage in ongoing
    dialogue with the Government on major issues; and
-   The decision to extend the project from March 2010 to end-December 2011 (22
    months) when the percentage of facilities built (7 percent) was below the project’s
    targets, and to approve the action plan.
3.1.2 Main decisions that impeded project execution
-   The complexity of the procedures manual prevented the various stakeholders from
    gaining a sound understanding of the project’s operational mechanisms (project
    implementation program, project implementation report, audit report, OVR, etc),
    which slowed project start-up to some extent; and
-   The exclusion of the IEC component owing to the reliance on this component under
    PAQPUD.
3.1.3. Project monitoring by the World Bank
-   The World Bank team effectively coordinated the project, which helped ensure that
    the project’s contracting authority and subcontracting authority worked closely
    together. In particular, the team worked to encourage the Government to make a
    number of important decisions to continue and support the project during crucial
    phases;
-   The Team Leader at the country office ensured coordination in Dakar and with
    Washington, including in regard to financial issues (fund withdrawal request, direct
    payment request, request for an advance, etc.); and
-   The principle of household payment in full prior to construction of the facility is rigid
    and does not encourage participation by poor populations.
3.1.4 Main lessons learned
-   The appointment of a Team Leader at the country office in Dakar was an important
    factor for the project’s implementation;
-   The regular review missions conducted by Matar Fall are a monitoring process that
    facilitates momentum;
-   The provision of a five-facility technological package proved to be a constraint;
-   The expansion of the technological package, in particular with the Contribution In
    Kind component (the project constructs infrastructure only and the cost of the
    superstructure is assumed by the beneficiary) and the flexibility with respect to
    extension of the intervention areas contributed significantly to the project’s success.

                                             56
3.2 Assessment of the Government’s activities during project execution
3.2.1 Main decisions that favored project execution
-   The formulation of an action plan with a view to extending the project after the first
    phase and the redeployment of the project in other areas in Dakar, particularly
    Sébikotane/Diamniadio, Yenn, and Sangalkam;
-   The expansion of the technological package, with the possibility of beneficiaries
    constructing the superstructure of some facilities themselves (TCM2F, TCM2F+D,
    DP, and VIP latrine), as well as the option to connect to condominium systems
    constructed under PAQPUD;
-   Close monitoring of the project with the convening of bimonthly meetings between
    ONAS, AGETIP, and the World Bank;
-   The significant mobilization by the Government, through an initial budget
    appropriation totaling CFAF 80 million and a second budget appropriation amounting
    to CFAF 100 million, contributed greatly to helping the people pay their contribution
    for two facilities (BALP and connections to condominium systems), thus facilitating
    the construction of three-quarters of the facilities built since February 2010.
3.2.2. Main decisions (or absence of decisions) that impeded project execution
    -   None
3.2.3. Cash flow and national counterpart problems
-   With the exception of a few problems caused by the delays in subsidy payments, the
    Government honored all its commitments.
3.2.4. Project monitoring by the oversight ministry or implementing agency
-   No problem was noted in this regard. All correspondence (request for extension,
    submission of official documents, etc.) was promptly addressed and processed.
3.2.5. Change(s) in Government, if any, and impact on project monitoring
    -   None
3.2.6. Main lessons learned
-   In Africa, the GPOBA is active, particularly in the transport, health, education, and
    sanitation sectors. The water and sanitation sectors account for 26 percent of
    GPOBA’s portfolio—15 water supply projects, three sanitation projects, and four
    water and sanitation projects. The GPOBA project providing “access to sanitation
    services for low-income households? is therefore a pilot project that presents a host of
    new solutions as well as difficulties faced by all stakeholders, owing to the fact that it
    is a pilot project;
-   Encourage the Government of Senegal to continue supporting the sanitation sector in
    the coming years, by making provision for an annual financial allocation specifically
    for on-site sanitation facilities;
-   Make provisions to reduce the counterpart rate and then enable payments in
    installments; and
-   Encourage in-kind contributions that take the poorest members of the population into
    account.

                                             57
3.3 Evaluation of the effectiveness and quality of relations between the World Bank
and the Government during project execution
Relations were good and interactions were regular between the ONAS, the oversight
ministry, and the World Bank.
3.4 Evaluation of the performance of the various institutions, consulting firms, and
consultants who participated in project activities (costs, benefits)
The establishment of performance indicators for NGOs/CBOs and their personnel—
Community Development Officers (CDOs), in this case—made them effective. At the
conclusion of the project, these stakeholders received certificates attesting to their
experience.
For the most part, construction companies that received packages gained sound experience
in the construction of on-site facilities in unstructured areas (unplanned neighborhoods,
overcrowding, proximity to the watershed, etc.). However, the dearth of personnel with
environmental qualifications capable of ensuring the proper application of the
environmental and social clauses incorporated into the bidding documents and the contracts
for the construction of the facilities limited the effectiveness and efficiency of the
environmental and social safeguard measures adopted to protect the environment during
construction of the facilities.
The main contractor 3 , gained experience in the following areas: (i) construction of
facilities in compounds; (ii) monitoring construction of the facilities and compliance of
construction works with technical plans and specifications; (iii) monitoring of agreed
work deadlines; (iv) oversight of the quality of materials provided; (v) oversight of the
implementation of materials and equipment; (vi) review of implementation challenges
and the selection of appropriate solutions; (vii) verification and approval of the invoices
provided by the construction companies; (viii) oversight of the construction companies’
maintenance of work records, compliance with the organizational plan, and payment of
laborers; (ix) the preparation of draft and final records of receipt; (x) participation in
consolidation of achievements in on-site sanitation technologies; and (xi) participation in
the project’s capitalization phase. However, it bears noting that while technical
monitoring was properly conducted by GEEOHI, this was not the case with respect to
environmental monitoring of the project.


IV. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL APPRAISAL OF THE PROJECT
4.1 Total project cost
4.1.1 Initial projections and actual cost of the various project components and categories
of expenditure
The Grant Agreement was concluded between the GPOBA (TF 090466-DGIS (Ministry
of International Cooperation, Netherlands) and TF 90467-DFID (Ministry of


3
    GEEOHI


                                            58
International Development, U.K.)) and the Ministry of Finance on July 6, 2007 in the
amount of US$5,763,032. The declaration was made on November 8, 2007. The funds
were deposited into the DDI account on February 1, 2008, and the advance amounting to
US$200 million was made to AGETIP on April 23, 2008.

    Facilities         Household counterpart     GPOBA subsidy             Total cost
                       funds
                        Amount in                 Amount in
                                      Rate                        Rate
                          CFAF                     CFAF
    FS                       80,000  23.0%          267,681     77.0%            347,681
    BALP                     27,000  23.2%           89,279     76. 8%           116,279
    TCM2F                    55,000  22.6%          187,984     77.4%            242,984
    TCM2F+D                  95,000  22.8%          322,535     77.2%            417,535
    DP                       45,000  22.5%          154,952     77.5%            199,952
    TCM2F+D+CIK              xxxxx                  279,456                      249,350
    RSC                      40,000  35.4%          127,839                      112,928

4.1.2 Value and level of recovery of Government counterpart funds
-    The counterpart funds paid by the Government in the amount of CFAF 180 million
     were fully recovered.


4.2 Recurrent costs generated by the project and impacting the State budget
-    None


4.3 Foreseeable consequences of the conclusion of the project on the institutional
structures established in the context of the project
The conclusion of the project will not have a negative impact on the institutions.


4.4 Main lessons learned
-    A sequential intervention on a quarterly basis to identify demand and construction
     works through the project implementation programs, project implementation reports,
     and audit reports;
-    The guarantee that the operator must necessarily be a service provider with resources,
     that can use its own resources, mobilize its experts, and assume risk;
-    The procedures manual is extremely detailed and provides a clear description of the
     tasks of each stakeholder;
-    The strong link between the release of the subsidy and expected outcomes;
-    Compliance of the facilities with technical requirements was ensured by the external
     technical auditor tasked with verifying the quality and operations of the facilities;
-    The adoption of performance indicators for all project stakeholders;
-    Close monitoring was conducted through field visits, the organization of weekly
     (ONAS/AGETIP), monthly (ONAS/AGETIP/World Bank), and bimonthly
     (ONAS/AGETIP directors) meetings;

                                            59
-   The use of local labor (CBOs, CDOs, laborers, artisans, municipal employees, etc.)
    trained in the use of communication technologies and tools and well acquainted with
    the area, which made it possible to lay a true foundation for the effective participation
    of local populations in the project;
-   The establishment of an environmental and social management plan (ESMP) that
    includes recommendations for mitigating the project’s negative impact on the
    environment;
-   The preparation of a quarterly financial monitoring report that outlines how the funds
    are being used and the application of the principles of economy and efficiency. This
    report helps to establish: (i) whether funds disbursed under GPOBA are being used
    for the purpose intended; (ii) whether implementation of the GPOBA project is on the
    right track; (iii) whether budgeted costs are being exceeded; and (iv) a procurement
    monitoring plan; and
-   Unlike under PAQPUD, funds were managed by ONAS, which was a very positive
    development.
All of the foregoing points, which contributed to the success of the OBA approach, must
not obscure the difficulties faced, namely:
-   The provision of a five-facility technological package, thus limiting the choices of the
    applicants, which proved to be a real obstacle;
-   The principle of payment in full prior to construction of the facilities is rigid and
    militates against construction on a large scale; and
-   IEC activities are of paramount importance to the performance of sanitation projects.
    Given that this component relates to the beginning of a project, it cannot be listed
    under outputs.


V. OUTLOOK FOR THE FUTURE WITH                                   RESPECT        TO     THE
SUSTAINABILITY OF PROGRESS ACHIEVED
In conclusion, efforts to promote broad implementation of the OBA approach in the water
and sanitation sectors must be sustainable and go hand in hand with tariff reform.
In the long term, ONAS may, through the GPOBA, provide sanitation services to poor
populations by continuing to provide the subsidy to cover household contributions, thus
helping to achieve the MDGs.
Although expensive, the use of television (advertorials, sketches, ads, etc.) has a major
impact on information dissemination.
Tracking the facilities built by the project would be improved through the use of
Geographic Information System (GIS) technology. Like PAQPUD, the GPOBA used GIS,
as each facility that has been delivered is geo-referenced by the main contractor
(GEEOHI) responsible for final delivery of the facilities.




                                             60
The table below presents a summary of the GPS collected data in each area by early
October 2011.


                GPS data collected                               Reliability
      Area     Correct   Incorrect              Total          (correct/total)
WAKHINANE
NIMZATT               86            7                   93                 92.47%
DIAMAGUENE-
MBAO                437            17                454                  96.26%
DIAMNIADIO          927            10                937                  98.93%
DJANDER             116          892                1008                  11.51%
GRAND-MÉDINE          10                              10                 100.00%
KAYAR                  7         552                 559                   1.25%
KEUR MASSAR         264             2                266                  99.25%
KEUR MOUSSE                      466                 466                   0.00%
MALIKA              442            40                482                  91.70%
NDIASS                             44                 44                   0.00%
OUAKAM                36            1                 37                  97.30%
POUT                               11                 11                   0.00%
RUFISQUE-EST          43                              43                 100.00%
SANGALKAM          1985            60               2045                  97.07%
SEBIKOTANE          837          250                1087                  77.00%
SEMI-COLLECTIF      110             4                114                  96.49%
SEMI-COLLECTIF        13                              13                 100.00%
WAKHINANE
NIMZATT               86            7                 93                  92.47%
YENE                696            25                721                  96.53%
YEUMBEUL NORD         82                              82                 100.00%
YEUMBEUL SUD        799            14                813                  98.28%
Total              6976         2402                9378                  74.39%




                                       61
Map of facilities built under the GPOBA in the Dakar region (October 2008-early
October 2011)




Legend
GPOBA, by type of facility




                             Department
                             Hydromorphic soil
                             Condominium sanitation system
                             Sewerage system
                             On-site sanitation facility
                             Atlantic Ocean



The collection of X, Y coordinates at the time of delivery of the facilities facilitated the
development of this map of completed works.

                                                     62
The advantages are as follows:
   -   A photograph of the facilities built under the GPOBA as of early October 2011:
       9,378 facilities (on-site and condominium sanitation), representing 81.5 percent of
       the total number of facilities built by end-December 2011 (74.39 percent
       reliability rate);
   -   Representation of the areas provided with sewerage systems in light green;
   -   Representation of the areas provided with condominium systems in dark green;
       and
   -   Representation of the areas provided with on-site sanitation facilities in yellow.
This representation shows the preponderance of on-site sanitation facilities in the
departments of Pikine, Guédiawaye, and Rufisque.
However, inaccuracies with respect to the data and areas that were not covered were
observed. More rigorous monitoring and frequent updating by data collectors are
therefore necessary.



VI. CLIENT COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT VERSION OF THE WORLD
BANK’S FINAL REPORT
Comments from ONAS

There are no specific comments.




                                            63
Annex 8 – Comments of Co-Financiers and Other
Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                            64
Annex 9 – List of Supporting Documents

No.   Title
1     PEPAM - Elaboration d'un document de stratégie pour la réalisation à l'horizon
      2015 des objectifs du millénaire pour le développement, Volume 3: SOUS-
      PROGRAMME URBAIN."
2     PEPAM – Rapport de la revue annuelle 2007 [2007 Annual review report].
3     Lettre de Politique sectorielle - Juillet 2005 [Letter of Sector Policy, July 2005].
4     URBAN SANITATION EXPERIENCES OF SENEGAL AND BURKINA
      FASO, Broadening Urban Sanitation Activities – Water Partnership Program,
      February 2012.
5     Long Term Water Project, Implementation Completion and Results Report,
      December 18, 2009.
6     GPOBA - Project Commitment/Appraisal Document, January 11, 2007.
7     Appui institutionnel au secteur de l’assainissement urbain au Sénégal, Fadhel
      Ghariani, 2009.




                                            65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 39359

                      Former                                                                                                               17°25'W                                                                 17°20'W                                                  17°15'W                                                  17°10'W                                               17°5'W
                      Spanish                                         ALGERIA
                      Sahara                                                                                                                                                SENEGA L                                                                                                                                                                 KAYAR
 Atlantic Ocean
                                                                                                             14°55'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KAYAR                                              14°55'N


                                                                                                                                           SANITATION GPOBA PROJECT
                        MAURITANIA

                                                                                                                                                             OUAKAM       AREAS WHERE PROJECT WAS IMPLEMENTED
                                                               MALI
Dakar                                                                                                                                                                     URBAN AREAS
                  SENEGAL                                                           NIGER
 THE                                                                                                                                                                      INDUSTRIAL ZONE AND PORT                                                                                                                                                                                                            PAMBAL
GAMBIA                                                         BURKINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DJANDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DJANDER GUEDJ
         GUINEA-




                                                                                              NIGERIA
                                                                FASO
          BISSAU                                                                                                                                                          PARKS AND FORESTS
                         GUINEA                                                   BENIN
                                                                  GHANA



                                                                             TO
                                             CÔTE D'IVOIRE                                                                                                                HIGHWAYS


                                                                             GO
                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                          SECONDARY ROADS
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                            RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Retba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lake
 14°50'N                                                                                                                                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14°50'N

                                                                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P. de Reboisement                                     NIAGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     du Lac Mbeubeussé            Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Retba
                                                                                                                                                                                  WAKHINANE NIMZATT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BAMBILOR                                                             POUT
                                               ATLANTIC                           OCEAN                                                                                         P. de Reboisement
                                                                                                                                                                                        de Malika    Lake Malika   MALIKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MALIKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANGALKAM                                                                   KEUR MOUSSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOFLAYE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POUT
                                                                                                                                                                  GUÉDIAWAYE                                                                           KEUR MASSAR                    SANGALKAM                                                                        KEUR MOUSSE

                                                                                                                                                                                              PIKINE                                                                                                           RUFISQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              POUT
                                                                       Yoff Island                                                                                                                                                                                                         NDIAKHIRATE DIGUE
                                                  YOFF                                                                                                                                    YEUMBEUL
                                                                                                                      CAMBÉRÈNE
                                 Ngor
                                Island                                                                                                                                                                            P. de Reboisement                                NGALAP
                                                                                                             GRAND MÉDINE                                                                                              de Mbao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEBIKOTANE
                                                                                     NORD FOIRE                                                                                YEUMBEUL                     DIAMAGUENE
                                                                                                                                                             PIKINE
 14°45'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14°45'N
                                     NGOR                  YOFF
                                                                                                                GRAND MÉDINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEBIKOTANE
            Pointe
             des                                 Dakar-Yoff                                             PATTE D’OLE                                                                          DIAMAGUENE
           Almadies                               Airport                                                                                                                 THIAROYE-MER
                                                                                                   GRAND                                                                                                                    MBAO
                                                                                                    YOFF
                                                                                                                          Hann
                                                      OUAKAM
                                                                              DAKAR                                       Park
                         OUAKAM
                                                                                                                       HANN                Baie de Hann                                                        MBAO                                                                                                                                                 Foret de Thiès
                                                                                        GRAND DAKAR                                                                                                                                                        RUFISQUE
                                                                   Airport
                                                                                                                              Anse de
                                                                                                                               Hann
                                                                        MERMOZ
                                                                                                             NIM-
                                                                                                             ZATT  Industrial                                                                                                                     RUFISQUE
                                                                                                                     Zone BEL-AIR
                                                                                   POINT E.               KOLOBANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BARGNY            BARGNY
                                                                                  UNIVERSITÉ                                                                                                                                                                           GOUDDAU
                                                                                  DE DAKAR GUELE MÉDINA
                                                                                             TAPEE                                  Port

                                                                                                                REBEUSSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Foret de Bandia
                                                                                                         NIAYER                            Pointe de Dakar
                                                                                               Anse des TIOKER                                                   Gorée
 14°40'N
                                                                                              Madelaines                            DAKAR                        Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14°40'N

                                                                                                                      DIAL
                                                                                                                      DIOP
                                                                                                                                  Pointe Bernard
                                                      P. National
                                                          de l’Iile                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NGUEKOKH
                                                  des Madeleines
                                                                                                                                  Cap Manuel                                             0              2                    4                6    8          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NDIASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                               NDIASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YÈNE      YÈNE

                                            17°30'W                                                                                        17°25'W                                                                 17°20'W                                                  17°15'W                                                  17°10'W                                               17°5'W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JUNE 2012
