Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12850-IVC
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
MAY 27, 1994
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc''
CFAF per US Dollar = CFAF 580
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AGEFOP       Agence Nationale de la Formation Professionnelle (National Vocational Training
Agency)
AGEPE        Agence d'Etudes et de Promotion de l'Emploi (Agency for the Study and Promotion
of Employment)
BDF          Banque des Donn6es Financieres (Financial Data Bank)
CAA          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CILSS        C6te d'Ivoire Living Standards Survey
CNPI         Conseil National du Patronat Ivoirien (National Council of Ivorian Employers)
CVT          Continuous Vocational Training
DIP          Direction des Investissements Publics (Public Investment Directorate)
EPIC         Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial (Commercial and Industrial
Public Establishment)
FDFP         Fonds de Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle (Vocational Training
Development Fund)
FNR          Fonds National de Regulation (National Regulation Fund)
HRDP         Human Resources Development Program
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
OEMF         Observatoire de l'Emploi, des Metiers et de la Formation (Employment, Occupations
and Training Observatoire)
OMOCI        Office de la Main d'Oeuvre de C6te d'lvoire (C6te d'Ivoire Manpower Office)
ONFP         Office National de la Formation Professionnelle (National Vocational Training Bureau)
PASCO        Competitiveness Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program
RCI          Republic of C6te d'lvoire
SMIG         Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Garanti (Guaranteed Interprofessional Minimum
Wage)
SMAG         Salaire Minimum Agricole Garanti (Guaranteed Agricultural Minimum Wage)
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
UGTCI        Union Generale des Travailleurs de C6te d'lvoire (C6te d'Ivoire Workers' Union)
TVET         Technical and Vocational Education and Training
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September - June
The CFA Franc is currently tied to the French Franc at a rate of 100:1. The French Franc is currently floating within the
European Monetary System.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA SHEET
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ............................. i
I. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND .1
II. LABOR FORCE AND TRAIISNG..                                                                          2
A. Overview..                                                                                           2
B. Labor Market Issues..                                                                                4
1.  Labor Market Regulations.                                                                   4
2. Labor Productivity                                      .5
3. Unemployment                                          .5
4.  Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis.                                                       6
C. The Training System..                                                                                7
1.      Pre-service Technical and Vocational Education and Training ..................  7
2.   Continuous Vocational Training (CVT).                                                      8
3.  The Institutional Framework.                                                                9
4. Prospects .11
D.  Government's Training Strategy                 ..11
E.  Bank's Experience and Role .12
F.  Rationale for IDA Involvement                 ..13
m. THE PROJECT .14
A. Project Objectives .14
B. Project Description .15
1.      Component 1. Training, Retraining and Apprenticeship Program .15
2.  Component 2. Training Outreach .17
3.      Component 3. Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis .18
C.  Project Impact Evaluation                  ..19
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, MANAGEMENT, COSTS AND FINANCING .19
A.  Project Costs and Financing .19
B.  Project Procurement and Disbursement .21
1.  Procurement Arrangements .21
2. Disbursements .26
3.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .27
C.      Project Implementation and Management .................................... 29
1.  Status of Project Preparation .29
2.      Project Management ............................................ 29
3.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation .30
4.  Implementation Schedule .30
V.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND IMPACT .31
A.      Project Sustainability ......................               ........................ 31
B.      Project's Impact .................................................... 31
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .32
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.          l



ANNEXES
I.      Description of the Formal VTET System
II.     Demographic, Labor Force and Employment Statistics
III.    Operations Manual
IV.     Workplan for the Observatoire
V.      Informal Sector: Dimensions, Issues, Opportunities
VI.     Partial List of NGOs Operating in C6te d'lvoire
VII.    Performance Criteria
(a)     FDFP
(b)     Observatoire
VIII.   Implementation Schedule
IX.     Project Costs and Financing Tables
X.      Schedule of IDA Disbursements
XI.     Flow of Funds and Disbursement Procedures
XII.   IDA Supervision Plan
XIII.   Status of Bank Loans and Credits
XIV.   List of Documents in the Project File
XV.    Map No. 25726
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Cote d'Ivoire from February 14 to 24, 1994.
The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. Robert Crown (Principal Economist, and Mission leader), Jean-Claude Hameidat
(Financial Analyst), Andre Komenan (Economist and Project Task Manager), Bettina Moll-Drucker (Education and Training
Specialist), Alice Morton (Anthropologist), Francesco Sarno (Procurement Specialist), Rachidi Radji (Operations Officer), and
Fransoise Kadio-Morokro (Consultant). Ms. Marilou Bradley prepared the final cost tables for the project in addition to
providing general assistance in the preparation of the report. Ms Lauren Ptito provided editorial assistance. The peer reviewers
are Messrs. Arvil Van Adams and Nat Colletta (AFTHR). Mr. Ok Pannenborg is the responsible Division Chief and
Mr. Olivier Lafourcade is the Department Director.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Indicators                                                                                      Year
General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                                  690                1991
GDP (US$ Millions)                                                    7,283              1991
Area (Thousands Square km)                                            322                  ----
Population (Millions)                                                 12.4               1991
Working Age Population (Percent of Total)                             49.7               1991
Urban Population (Percent of Total)                                   41                 1991
Social Indicators
Crude Birth Rate (Per Thousand)                                       46                 1991
Crude Death Rate (Per Thousand)                                       14                 1991
Annual Population Growth Rate (Percent)                               3.8                1991
Infant Mortality Rate (Per Thousand Live Births)                      95                 1991
Adult Literacy Rate (Percent)                                         54                 1990
Primary School Enrollment (Percent of School Age Group)               70                 1991
Labor Force Statistics (Millions)
Total Labor Forces                                                    4.95               1992
Of which - Male (Percent)                                             52.3               1992
- Female (Percent)                                          47.7                1992
Employment and Wage Statistics
Total Employment (Millions)                                           4.62               1992
Distribution of Employment by Sector (Percent)
Traditional Agriculture                                       68.2               1992
Formal Sector                                                 8.2                1992
of which: (Public)                                            (2.7)              1992
(Private)                                           (5.5)              1992
Informal Sector                                               23.6               1992
Unemployment Rate (Percent)
Total                                                         6.7                1992
Male                                                          10.8               1992
Female                                                        2.1                1992
Minimum Monthly Wage in Industry (US$)'*                              135                1991
Minimum Monthly Wage in Agriculture (US$)             (3 levels between $30 and $53)     1991
Annual Growth Rate of Industrial Nominal Wage (Percent)               5.8             1970-91
Annual Growth Rate of Price Index (Percent)                           6.9             1970-91
Enrollment in TVET Institutions
Post Primary Training                                                 3,600              1992
Secondary Education                                                   5,650              1992
Higher Education                                                      2,721              1992
Note:    Labor Force: Economically active population (population of age 16 to 55).
Estimated exchange rate for 1991: US$1 =CFAF250.
Sources: - The World Bank: World Development Report (1993); Social Indicators of Development (1993).
- Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, Ministry of Civil Service and Employment: Annuaire Statistique du Travail (1992); Politique Nationale
de l'Emploi (1991).






- j -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Executing Agencies:  Vocational Training Development Fund (FDFP)
Agency for the Study and Promotion of Employment (AGEPE)
Beneficiaries:      Individuals in the private formal and informal labor force
Amount:             SDR 12.1 million (US$17.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:     Government/FDFP, US$2.5 million; IDA US$17.0 million
Project Obiectives:    The project would contribute to: (i) greater labor force productivity and mobility
through technical and basic skills training, with special emphasis on the needs of
small informal sector and women's enterprises; and (ii) Government's capacity
to monitor and analyze labor market conditions, relevant to the formulation of
an adequate labor force development strategy, including the improvement of the
skills match between labor supply and demand. Overall, project investments
have both an economic and social rationale: through the enhancement of skills
and labor productivity they would contribute to improving the country's
economic competitiveness, the employability of the unemployed, and more
effective participation of women in the economy.
Proiect Description:   The project would finance a time-slice of an on-going FDFP program, which
would subsequently expand to include new client groups in the informal sector,
where the largest portion of the target group is employed and growth is fastest.
Its total cost of US$19.5 million would include three major components:
(a) Training. Retraining and Apprenticeship (79% of total costs, including
contingencies) would support training activities aimed at: (i) increasing the
productivity of small, micro and informal sector firms (with a particular focus
on women-managed firms); (ii) enhancing the employability of the long-term
unemployed and retrenched workers from public and private enterprises; and
(iii) easing the transition from school to work for school leavers and graduates
who would have established credible links with employers. To achieve this, the
project would assist FDFP in: (i) extending the coverage of the continuing
vocational training system beyond its traditional clientele of medium and large
formal sector enterprises, and addressing, following a strictly demand-driven
approach, training needs of small/micro-enterprises, many of which are in the
informal sector; and (ii) supporting training and consulting services to upgrade
and adapt the skills and other aptitudes of the unemployed, school leavers and
graduates to the needs of the economy and assist in their search for jobs.
(b) Training Outreach Support (6 % of the project costs, including contingencies)



- jj-
would support FDFP's efforts to publicize its activities and inform the potential
beneficiaries and sponsors of the services available; this would be achieved
through site visits, dissemination of printed materials and extensive use of mass
media. (c) Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis (15% of the project costs,
including contingencies) would improve the availability, timeliness and
dissemination of labor market information by (i) supporting the development of
an information system and the undertaking of in-depth surveys to provide a basis
for periodic and systematic labor market data generation and analysis; (ii)
supporting the processing of the data collected; and (iii) fostering regular
publication and dissemination of labor market information.
Benefits:            It is difficult at this time to estimate the number of individual beneficiaries of the
project or the impact of the project on their lives, on overall labor productivity
and on the economy. This would, however, be estimated during annual progress
reviews, in a mid-term review and various evaluation studies of project
outcomes, conducted by independent analysts. As a proxy, however, at least
50% of the project funds would be expected to be allocated to training needs of
informal sector beneficiaries, of which 75% would be for training women
entrepreneurs, and 25 % would be allocated to the small formal sector firms who
have not recently embarked on personnel training programs.
Risks:               The principal risk of the project is that the demand for and the quality of the
training provided would be insufficient to have a significant impact on the
productivity of the labor force. While there is evidence of unmet demand,
expressed by prospective sponsors (training institutions, large formal sector
employers, chambers of commerce and industry, NGOs and women's
associations), this demand and the capacity of the sponsors to effectively mobilize
beneficiaries is not fully proven. The project would, therefore, provide for the
services of advisors in outreach activities to reinforce FDFP's capacity to assist
sponsors in their functions. Concerning quality, FDFP currently assesses the
credentials of training providers who wish to provide training services. Some
150 are currently on a continuously updated list of pre-qualified firms. FDFP
also collects information on public sector training providers and uses it as a
quality control device. While apparently satisfactory at present, the range of
specialties covered is relatively limited. As demand grows, and as the range of
training proposals increases, there is a risk that FDFP's capacity to verify the
quality of trainers will decrease. This is particularly true where greater attention
to the value of training for women is concerned. To mitigate against this risk,
the project will provide for periodic consultations on training quality. This will
be monitored as a regular part of project implementation.
Poverty Category:    Program of Targeted Intervention. The poor in CMte d'Ivoire are characterized
by a low level of human capital as measured by their general and vocational
education/training and a limited access to employment. The project would permit
many beneficiaries, among whom a significantly greater proportion of poor than
in the population as a whole, to acquire labor market relevant vocational skills
which would enhance their employability, productivity and earnings.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary, Financing Plan and Estimated IDA Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Poject Cost Summary
Project Component                                         Foreign   Loca    Total    % Total Base Cost
I.   TRAINNG, RETAING  AND APPRE CESHIP                      3.1   12.1       15.2            82
PROGRAM                                                     ._.
II. TRAINING OUTREACH SUPPORT                                0.1     0.7      0.8             4
III. LABOR MARKET MONITORING                                 1.1     1.3      2.4             13
IV. REFUNDING OF PPF                                         -       0.2      0.2              I
Base Costs                                               4.3    14.3     14             100
Physical Contingencies                                   0.1    0.1       0.2             1
Price Contingencies                                     0.1     0.6       0.7             4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                      4.5   15.0      19.5           105
(Net of Taxes of and Duties)                                           (18.6)
Project Finaucing Plan       Foreign       Locl |  Total           % Total Cost
IDA                           4.5          12.5        17.0            87
Government                    0.0           2.5         2.5            13
TOTAL                         4.5          15.0        19.5           lO0
Estimated IDA Disbursements                        -IDA   FISCAL YEAR                    1
95196  W9697   97/96   98/99   WZ I00
Annual                                      2.3     4.5     4.1     4.0  I    2.1
Cumulative                                  2.3     6.8  110.9  | 14.9        _17.
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Poverty Cateeorv: Program of Targeted Interventions
MaD: Map No. 25726






REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAIING SUPPORT PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.    Since the early 1980s, C6te d'Ivoire has faced several fiscal and balance of payment crises. They
reflected not only inadequate macroeconomic policies but also more fundamental distortions in trade,
finance, public sector, and pricing policies, thereby adversely affecting the efficient allocation of
resources and constraining sectoral growth prospects. The Government has coped with these situations
by adopting various IMF and World Bank-supported stabilization and adjustment programs which relied
solely on internal adjustment. This strategy was also at the core of the Government's medium-term
economic framework (MTF), adopted in 1991, which aimed to restore international competitiveness and
to return to a path of sustainable growth, through (i) structural reforms in the areas of trade and finance
and (ii) the pursuit of tight fiscal and monetary policies. Moreover, the Government has initiated a
privatization process, involving about 50 public enterprises, and sought to strengthen human resource
development. The MTF was supported by three SECALs, including the Human Resources Development
Program, and a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. In addition, the World Bank has approved three
technical assistance credits since 1992 to support the Government in implementing its economic reforms,
privatization program, and human resources development program.
2.    Despite progress in implementing key parts of the economic program, economic developments
until 1993 show that the Ivorian economy continued to suffer from substantial fiscal and balance of
payments imbalances and considerable structural rigidities. On the fiscal side, the primary deficit which
had improved in the early 1990s, from 2.4 percent of GDP to 1.4 percent of GDP between 1990 and
19921', is estimated to have again widened to about 3 percent of GDP in 1993. With this deterioration
and a heavy interest burden equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, the overall fiscal deficit remains at
the unsustainable level of about 16 percent of GDP in 1993, thereby creating serious financing problems
to the Government. As a consequence, the Government resorted mainly to arrears financing as a means
to cover the deficit. On the external side, the current deficit account remained at around 11.5 percent
of GDP during 1990-93. Significant improvements in the current account balance were offset by the high
interest charges on the country's external debt, depressed international prices for cocoa and coffee as well
as by an overvalued currency. As a result, substantial arrears were accumulated over the 1990-93 period,
reaching the equivalent of about 60 percent of GDP by end-1993. These macroeconomic difficulties,
combined with investment levels remaining at around 10 percent during the early 1990s, stagnant export
receipts for the country's main export products, coffee and cocoa, and stagnant industrial production,
resulted in the fall of real GDP, on average, by about 1 percent a year during 1990 to 1993.
3.     The internal adjustment program pursued by C6te d'Ivoire and the other CFA countries through
1993 was unable to halt the economic decline which started in 1986. With the recent re-alignment of the
CFA franca', the Government has reformulated its medium-term  adjustment program  in a Policy
Ii This has been achieved through cuts in primary expenditure which overcompensated the pantly recession-related decline
of Government revenue during 1990-92.
2' On January 12, 1994, the CFA Franc was devaluated by 50 percent.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report   2
Framework Paper (PFP) for the 1994-96 period. During that time, this program aims to: (i) raise the
rate of growth to about 6 percent beginning from 1996, (ii) achieve primary surpluses in the
Government's budget, (iii) strengthen external competitiveness through trade, price, and regulatory
reform, (iv) seek debt relief from official bilateral and commercial creditors at concessional terms, and
(v) intensify human resource development and expand poverty alleviation measures with a view to
protecting the most vulnerable groups during the adjustment period.
4.     The realignment of the CFA Franc is expected to give added impetus to structural reforms the
Government has been undertaking over the last couple of years. With regard to trade reform, to create
a more open and competitive foreign trade regime, thereby establishing the conditions for rapid growth
for non-traditional exports, the Government immediately adjusted import tariffs after the devaluation,
reducing the maximum rate to 35 percent, and intends to remove most non-tariff barriers, eliminate
import exonerations, and simplify foreign trade procedures.  A comprehensive debt work out at
concessional terms, involving bilateral and commercial creditors, in combination with a restrictive fiscal
and monetary stance is expected to lead to (i) a sustained reduction in interest obligations, generating
savings of about US$500 million per year, (ii) an overall improvement of the current account deficit
(from about 11 percent of GDP in 1993 to about 7 percent in 1996), and (iii) the return to a path of
positive real growth rates in 1994, accelerating to annual rates of 5 percent and higher from 1995
onwards. The recovery will be led by a sustained increase of investment levels mostly financed by
domestic savings.
5.     The Government expects that with the parity change and the implementation of the accompanying
fiscal, monetary, and structural adjustment policies mentioned above, the Ivorian economy will be able
to strengthen its international competitiveness and return to a sustainable growth path. In this context,
the Government's program is being supported by the World Bank through an IDA-led lending program
and the IMF through an Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) over three years. The present
project aims to contribute to this long-term effort by improving the productivity and employability of the
workforce.
II. LABOR FORCE AND TRAINING
A. Overview
6.     Important changes in the structure of the population and the distribution of the labor force in Cote
d'Ivoire3' have taken place over the last twenty years. The country's high population growth (3.8% per
year) is translated into a higher growth rate of the labor force (5.6% per year). The proportion of the
occupied labor force in agriculture has decreased from 76% in 1975 to about 68% in 1992, and during
the same period the proportion of rural population has declined from 68 to 51 % as the result of an intense
urban-rural and international migration, primarily into urban centers. Modern sector employment,
currently at about 400,000 (8% of total employment), including 100,000 in the civil service, has
decreased regularly during the last decade (1.25% per year) as the result of production decline and firm
closures (about 15% of registered firmis closed between 1982 and 1990). In spite of the reduced
absorptive capacity of the modern sector, growth in open unemployment has slightly increased (from
2.7% in 1975 to 6.7% in 1992, according to official statistics), although that of graduate unemployment
is much higher. This may be partly explained by the fact that the decline in modern private employment
-   Employment data in this section come from the Annuaire Statistique du Travail 1992 (Mai 1993) published by the
Employment and Civil Service Ministry.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  3
was compensated for by increases in other sectors; agricultural employment grew at 3% per year, civil
service employment at about 5 % per year, and informal sector employment (of mainly low-skilled and
uneducated workers) at 9% per year. The labor market is dominated by very small firms (more than
92 % of employment). Women are increasingly entering the labor market as the result of a combination
of factors, including education expansion and limited family income. Women are found essentially in
informal sector activities (63 % of informal sector employment), although their share of modem sector
employment is increasing rapidly. (See Annex V for a description of the Informal Sector, NGO's and
Women's Participation.)
7.    Education achievements in CMte d'Ivoire are lower than most countries of the same GNP per
capita group; the performance of the education system is also below what could be expected from a
country which has consistently devoted, for more than a decade, one of the world's highest shares of the
government recurrent budget to education and training (up to 44% in the 1980s). This is because, as a
recent analysis of the education system points out, of serious misallocation of resources and large wastage
at every education level. The illiteracy rate of the population aged 15 and above has fallen from 95%
in the 1960s to 46% at present. During the same period, primary school enrollmept has only slightly
increased from 60% to 72%, and secondary enrollment from 6% to 20%. In general, the education and
training level of the labor force is low: more than 50% of the employees in the formal sector and 80%
in the informal sector have received no formal education or training of any kind. In addition, gender
disparities exist as, even within the educated and trained labor force, women are considerably less likely
to have had training and apprenticeship opportunities than men (for example, according to CILSS data,
there may be up to twice as many men with formal training as women, and two to three times more men
than women who have had apprenticeships). In addition, the education system has been designed in large
part to prepare and select students for higher education, and train them for a growing public sector which
had absorbed most of the graduates. Little or no official attention was paid to the educational needs of
"drop-outs". The relevance of technical training at the secondary and post-secondary levels has eroded
and the employability of graduates outside of the administration has decreased. Government has begun
recently, in the context of a 1991 Human Resources Development Program - HRDP (financed in part
through Bank and IDA adjustment lending), to rationalize the use of resources in the formal technical
training system. But reform of this system is admittedly a time-consuming process, whose effects in the
short term are more likely to be seen in budgetary restraint rather than in improved technical skills.
Indeed, the HRDP, in its initial stage, is more concemed with stabilization and cost control than
enhancement of the quality and productivity of the economy. Recent inventory of resources available for
TVET shows that facilities are in a very poor state. In addition, reforms in this area are not well
advanced, and policy constraints exist (regulatory impediments) to greater use of even feeble degraded
resources. Reforming the TVET system would be a time consuming process which cannot be afforded
in the current situation of growing demand as the result of economic adjustment. While, pre-service
TVET is still to be addressed, there is an urgent need to respond to the demand for training and skill
upgrading of the labor force.
8.    C6te d'Ivoire is currently taking important steps to improve the operations of the labor market
by removing many of the rigidities in its functioning with a view to enhancing labor mobility and the
firms' efficient allocations of resources as well as promoting employment. A new National Employment
Policy includes 9 components as follows: (i) enhancement of labor market operations through the
preparation of a new labor code which liberalizes workers' hiring and dismissals, and abolition of the
central manpower office, the Office de la Main d'Oeuvre de C6te d'Ivoire (OMOCI) which has been
replaced by a newly created Agence d'Etudes et de Promotion de l'Emploi (AGEPE), an autonomous
public administration which will operate in competition with private placement offices and will also be
in charge of gathering and analyzing labor market information; (ii) reform of the civil service with a view



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  4
to reducing the total payroll and the number of civil servants by about 25% in three years;
(iii) redefinition and rationalization of the unemployment benefits program (financed by the Fonds de
Solidarite) with a view to using some of the resources to develop job creation programs; (iv) Job Insertion
Support Program financed out the Fonds de Solidarite; (v) Micro-Enterprise Creation Program which
trains and provides loan guarantees to the commercial banks; (vi) Ivorianization Program which promotes
the hiring of suitable Ivorians in lieu of foreign workers; (viii) Public Works Community Program
(AGECI, which is an AGETIP); and finally (ix) Employment-Education Matching Program, the content
of which is yet to be defined. In this context, the main issues to be addressed in the labor market are
related to: (i) labor productivity; (ii) unemployment and labor mobility; and (iii) information and
monitoring of labor market evolution.
B. Labor Market Issues
1.    Labor Market Regulations
9.     Firms in C6te d'Ivoire face highly constraining labor market regulations; the 1964 Labor Code
and the 1977 Interprofessional Collective Bargaining Agreement are the principal instruments of
Government's labor policy; they govern firms' recruitment and dismissal of employees, as well as wage-
setting procedures. They prescribe minimum wages (SMIG and SMAG) with minima for each of the
sector wage scales and automatic seniority increases of 1 percent a year, irrespective of productivity.
Termination procedures are fraught with difficulties and, until recently, hiring had to be done through
the Manpower Office (OMOCI), which also approved expatriate contracts.
10.   These rigidities limit firms' ability to rapidly adjust their workforce to respond to changing
domestic and international market conditions; combined with a critical shortage of skilled labor, they also
result in higher cost of formal sector labor than in competitor countries. Indeed, the industrial wages in
C6te d'Ivoire were, prior to the 50% devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994, 70 to 100 percent
higher than in Malaysia and Morocco, 2 to 3 times higher than in Tunisia and Mauritius, about 4 times
those in Ghana, Nigeria, India, and Indonesia; formal sector wages are more than 10 times the country's
per capita GDP. This high level of industrial wages is not offset by higher productivity; in the tuna
canning industry, for example, the gap in production costs between Ivorian and Thai tuna exports results
partly from labor costs with local remuneration ten times higher than in Thailand, whereas productivity
ratios are identical. At the same time, wages in the informal sector for unskilled labor are more closely
tied to productivity and entry level wages appear well below the legal minimum wage (SMIG). In fact,
many of the employment regulations are applied less stringently than in the formal sector, leading to a
significant increase in informal sector labor absorption.
11.    As part of the Bank-supported Competitiveness and Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program
(PASCO, FY92), the Government has developed a reform program to reduce labor costs and introduce
greater flexibility in labor market operations. To reduce labor costs, the Government has eliminated the
employer's payroll tax (with the exception of the continuing vocational training and apprenticeship taxes).
To introduce greater flexibility in labor market operations the Government has ended the monopoly of
the OMOCI (the OMOCI has been replaced by an agency with a different mission and responsibilities)
and taken various other measures aimed at easing worker dismissals, facilitating the use of temporary
workers and fixed-term contracts, and liberalizing overtime work. A new Labor Code is expected to be
passed in 1994.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report           5
2.     Labor Productivity
12.    Labor productivity changes in the manufacturing in C6te d'lvoire have been slow during the
1980s.  Between 1984 and 1989, output per worker grew  only at the rate of 1.8%  per year;
comparatively, during the same period, real output per worker in manufacturing grew annually at 6% in
India, 9%  in Indonesia, 3.6%  in Mexico, and 5.8%  in Zimbabwe.' In developed countries (US, Japan,
Canada, France, and the UK), between 1982 and 1989, output per hour of labor in manufacturing grew
at more than 4 % on average. It should be recognized that labor productivity is associated with a number
of key factors such as management, technical choices (capital-labor ratios, labor skill mix), technical mix,
resources allocation, social factors and workers' personal characteristics (labor quality); the latter
undoubtedly play a key role in enhancing productivity. While many other factors determine labor quality
(nutrition, health, living conditions, age, motivation, psychological factors), experience and
education/training occupy a central place. The relatively low level of education attainment of the Ivorian
labor force, and especially the limited access to post-school training, can therefore be held largely
responsible for the low productivity level of Ivorian workers. Indeed, less than 10% of Ivorian workers
in the formal sector have received training to improve their skills on the job; in contrast, approximately
38% of U.S. workers have received on-the-job training.
13.    Important variations can be observed in labor productivity according to sector; low  labor
productivity seems to be prevalent in small and informal sector firms which account, as already
mentioned, for a large fraction (more than 92%) of total employment in C6te d'Ivoire.  Lower
productivity growth in small and informal sector firms can be associated with all the factors enumerated
above, but specifically with their low investment in training; studies in other countries report high rates
of return to training: 20% in Malaysia, Brazil, and Colombia, and 6 to 7% in Botswana. This failure
to invest in on-the-job human capital accumulation also limits the firms' ability to introduce innovation
and adjust to technological change. Small firms in C6te d'Ivoire are limited in their capacity to provide
training to their workers because of several factors: (i) the relatively low formal schooling of their
workforce (on-the-job training and formal schooling being complementary, the low schooling level
justifies the low demand for training); (ii) the relatively high worker turnover in small firms, which
discourages investment in training; (iii) higher opportunity costs of training as workers' production during
training is lower than usual; and (iv) substantially high transaction costs of training which limit the
capacity of small firms to provide training, the benefits of which (in terms of returns) may not offset the
costs incurred.5'
3.     Unemployment
14.    According to official aggregate statistics (See Annex II), the estimated Open Unemployment in
C6te d'Ivoire is low compared to other countries (6.7%) despite the fact that modem private sector
employment decreased by at least 30% since 1980 and the public sector was drastically restructured with
accompanying massive worker retrenchment. These aggregate statistics, however, do not reveal a number
of important features of the labor market in C6te d'Ivoire such as: (i) the high degree of
underemployment in the rural and the informal sectors and the related high open unemployment in urban
4   Source: World Tables 1993, The World Bank.
In addition, small firms, because of their size, may not be able to provide in-house training but rather off-the-job training
(through external institutions), which are generally found to be less effective and more expensive per trainee/hour than
in-house training. Further low job rotation and promotion opportunities in small firms for trained employees reduce the
potential benefits of, and incentives to receive, training.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  6
centers, especially in Abidjan; and (ii) the high incidence of unemployment among first-jobseekers.
These include the youth in general and the educated, who are not only facing a very low absorptive
capacity of the modern sector but also are ill-equipped for a labor market dominated by informal sector
activities (quantitative or structural mismatch of skills).
15.   The often observed underemployment prevalent in rural areas and in the informal sector is
difficult to measure and there are no data to illustrate it. In spite of the fact that the largest proportion
of employment is in rural areas, open unemployment is essentially an urban phenomenon: three out of
four unemployed registered job seekers live in Abidjan. Further, open unemployment affects some socio-
economic groups in particular; for example, young and inexperienced job seekers, usually more educated,
represent two-thirds of the total number of registered job seekers. Although data are not available to
analyze gender differences, casual observation consistently indicates that women are at greater
disadvantage.
16.   The structure of employment in Cote d'Ivoire has changed notably since independence. The
proportion of technical (high level and mid-level) professionals has risen steadily as a consequence of the
technological changes that took place during this period. A close analysis of the labor market indicates
increasingly serious structural imbalances between educated labor supply and demand. The structure of
the supply has changed inversely to the pattern of demand since 1983; for example, the supply of
technical professionals has increased in relative terms from 1.3% of total job seekers for high-level
professionals and 5.5% for mid-level (maitrise) to 2.1% and 6.7% in 1991, respectively. During the
same period, demand for high level professionals decreased from 5.6% to 2.5% and that of mid-level
(maitrise) decreased from 13.8% to 4.8%. Further, although the number of job seekers in each of these
categories constantly exceeded the demand, unsatisfied demand for labor has been rising over the last ten
years, from about 20% to a current high level of about 45%, indicating that employers' labor
requirements are not met by the available supply and revealing a critical lack of response of the labor
supply to changes in demand. Such imbalances indicate an important need for adjustment through
training.
4.     Labor Market Monitorin!g and Analysis
17.   The monitoring of labor market trends and the identification of training needs are constrained by
data limitations and by a lack of analysis of labor market issues. This is so in spite of the great number
of sources and survey instruments providing information on the labor market. These sources include a
population census, an industrial census (the Manpower Survey, carried out every 5 years), a Financial
Data Bank (BDF), a multipurpose household survey (CILSS), administrative records from the social
security registers, several enterprise-based surveys, the records of the National Manpower Bureau
(OMOCI), etc.  The information collected for different purposes is dispersed and the data are
inconsistent, reflecting different definitions and methods of measurement of the same concept; in addition,
the coverage of the data (national, regional, or sectoral) is often different. What is therefore missing in
the labor market information chain is a consistent, sustained data gathering and processing effort capable
of providing timely and reliable data on the evolution of the labor market and instructing the education
and training systems on the changes in skills requirements. The Government is trying to correct this with
the elaboration of a new employment policy and the establishment of a new institution, the Agence
d'etudes et de promotion de l'emploi (AGEPE), a labor market information and analysis center, and an
employment promotion institution. Indeed, AGEPE is a key player in the implementation of the
Government's employment policy as it will assume diverse responsibilities including (i) overseeing the
Employment Observatoire to be established; (ii) implementing employment programs; (iii) producing and
disseminating labor market survey and study results as well as any information on employment and



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  7
training; (iv) steering activities aimed at improving the match between education and employment;
(v) acting as a public employment placement and consulting agency; and (vi) managing the unemployment
fund. In fact, AGEPE will carry out the missions previously devoted to either dissolved or restructured
services or agencies (such as ONFP, which was responsible for the Manpower Survey, OMOCI the
former placement service, Employment Directorate for the management of the Unemployment Fund)
while initiating new activities.
C. The Trainin2 System
18.   Pre-service and in-service technical and vocational education and training (TVET) in C6te d'Ivoire
is provided through four channels: (i) public and private training institutions; (ii) NGOs; (iii) production
and service firms, a number of which operate training centers (e.g. SOTRA, Blohorn); and, (iv) an
informal channel --apprenticeship.
19.   Since independence, C6te d'Ivoire and its partners (the private training sector, private employers,
and NGOs) have marked their commitment to building-up the country's human capital in the context of
a free-market oriented strategy. In this context, they have invested heavily in TVET, and collectively
engaged, since 1977, in further building and adapting this human capital to the changing needs of the
economy through a formal on-the-job training system. Finally, with the support of the donor community
(including the Bank) the country has embarked in a deep restructuring of its institutional framework for
human capital development. The need for such investments and restructuring is greater today as the
country has embarked in deep structural reforms with the aim of improving labor productivity, enhancing
competitiveness, and reorienting its economy to face the challenges posed by the changing economic
environment. Employers in Cote d'Ivoire have also long understood the need to invest in training either
directly, by developing in-house training, or indirectly, by sub-contracting to public or private training
institutes financed out of in-service tax levy. They have been frustrated, however, by the fact that short-
term cash deficit have constrained the Government's human capital development policy.
1.    Pre-service Technical and Vocational Education and Training
20.   Pre-service TVET in C6te d'Ivoire is made up of a wide and complex array of (public and
private) institutions and of fields of study. Public institutes depend either on the Ministrv of National
Education (MEN) or the Ministrv of Higher Education (MESRS) which oversees 6 higher education
public training centers (Grandes ecoles) which enjoy a special status (Etablissement public national --
EPN). In addition, many different technical ministries provide technical and vocational education at both
the secondary and post-secondary levels. (See Annex I for a description of the public TVET system in
C6te d'Ivoire). In addition to the public TVET institutes, there are also privately operated institutions,
the majority of which offer curricula in business and secretarial skills. There are currently about 75 such
institutions (50% of the country's training capacity) enrolling 13,000 students, that is, 45% more than
the public technical and vocational schools.
21.   TVET institutions in C6te d'Ivoire, which are generally operating below their theoretical capacity
(15 to 25 % of unused capacity at the secondary level and 40% in higher education institutions), are facing
serious problems related to their low external efficiency and their relatively high operating costs with
regard to the current tight budget constraints. The present vocational training system has been designed
for employment prospects that no longer exist, and the lack of modern employment opportunities
contribute to the further increase in the unemployment rates among TVET graduates at all levels.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  8
Moreover, the tight budget constraints and resulting extremely poor condition of equipment, facilities,
and machinery limit practical training and have clearly adverse effects on the quality of training provided.
2.     Continuous Vocational Training (CVT)
Background
22.   In-service training to allow the people currently employed to refresh and update their skills --
typically short-term training-- is financed largely by formal sector firms, provided by a number of public
and private institutes/training firms, and managed by the Vocational Training Development Fund (FDFP),
a public institution with great autonomy.
23.    Since 1959, Ivorian industry and state enterprises have paid a payroll tax (0.4% of total payroll,
after a 20% rebate) to support apprenticeship (taxe d'apprentissage) which, until recently, was
administered by thp Office national de formation professionnelle (ONFP). The use of these revenues was
progressively allocated less to clearly defined "apprenticeship" programs and more to supporting formal
technical training institutions and high administrative overheads. It became, therefore, an additional
business tax, used to finance training that was perceived increasingly irrelevant to employers. This led
to general dissatisfaction among employers and unions, who were concerned with the low level of skills
in the work force, and eventually to the establishment of a Continuing Vocational Training tax (taxe
additionnelle pour la formation professionnelle continue, 1.2% of the payroll, after a 20% rebate) in
1977. The revenues from this new tax were also to be administered by ONFP, within which a Fonds
National de Re2ulation (FNR) was established. However, by 1987 the ONFP umbrella presented the
same management issues as previously experienced and FNR was given autonomy under a tripartite
Board.
24.    Performance of the FNR in the areas of in-service training for industry was satisfactory, with
about 88% of the revenues generated by the tax going to training (in contrast, only about 20% of the
revenues generated by the apprenticeship tax, then managed by ONFP, went to training). By 1990, the
two taxes were generating about CFAF 5.2 billion per year, of which about CFAF 3 billion (58%)
actually supported training. Much of this training (paid for through the FNR) was provided by private
sector operators and the quality of service was supervised by the FNR. This provided a flexible system,
driven by essentially market considerations. However, the performance of the FNR was also progressively
limited by the unwillingness of the Government, under growing budgetary constraints, to return to the
FNR and subsequently to employers, an adequate share of the revenues generated by the tax in a timely
manner. This led to unpaid training bills and a slowdown in training activity. In addition, given the fixed
cost of training, many small firms (with less than 20 employees), representing about half of all
contributing firms, were unable to mobilize sufficient revenues with the taxes paid to organize a credible
program. By 1992, only 700 firms had planned training programs for their employees in the preceding
3 years, representing 40% of firms paying the tax, and the actual number of training programs financed
had fallen from 400 in 1988 to less than 200. The largest 25% of the firms were consuming about 75%
of the tax revenues owing to their ability to organize and sustain their training programs. Throughout
1990 and 1991, an increasingly acrimonious debate between employers, unions and the Government
occurred over the management of these tax revenues and in 1991, the decision was made (supported as
a key condition of the Human Resources Development SECAL) to pool the revenue of the two taxes into
a single "fund", to be managed independently of the Government by a board with equal representation
of employers, employees and Government (the Fonds de developpement de la formation professionnelle -
-FDFP). Both ONFP and FNR have now been officially liquidated and FDFP effectively began operations



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report               9
in early 1993. It has since prepared financing for some 88 training programs with a cost of about CFAF
1.5 billion.
25.    A number of important private and non-governmental initiatives have also been undertaken to
address the lack of skills among the self-employed, school drop-outs, the unemployed, and other
disadvantaged socio-economic groups. At least 8 international and national NGOs are currently operating
short-term training programs. In most cases these have been associated with other activities, such as
enterprise creation (one experience is being supported by a Bank pilot project in the area of small scale
enterprise development --UDP III--), support for women's groups, family planning, AIDS control, adult
literacy, environmental protection, and rural development. The principal constraint on these NGOs is their
generally weak management capacity, resulting from inadequate financing which limits their development
as institutions. As much as a third of the time of NGO managers may be spent in mobilizing resources
and "networking", simply to survive. This places organizations in competition with each other, and
prevents the development of a critical mass effort and a clear focus on "client" needs. To date,
Government's approach to NGOs has been one of registering their existence, and tolerating their
activities. In the area of training, however, FNR had been following the policy of financing programs
proposed by NGOs, and FDFP is ready to consider funding of such programs with funds generated by
the apprenticeship and continuous vocational training taxes, once the needs of formal sector employers
have been met.
3.              The Institutional Framework
Apprenticeship in Cdte d'Ivoire
26.    FDFP is currently the central player in
the Government's strategy to develop the skills of
its workforce.  The main focus of FDFP is to:           The  informal  channel  for  acquiring  TVET  is
(i) support private  sector-led  growth  and  the       apprenticeship, prevalent within the informal sector of the
economy. In this sector, an apprenticeship arrangement,
competitiveness of the economy by increasing and         which can be started as early as primary school age and
adapting the skills of the currently employed labor     can last five years or more, typically consists of a young
force, promoting productivity improvements and          person working full time in a small enterprise at zero
facilitating labor mobility; and (ii) support the       cash wage (and in some cases a fee is required from the
country's  economic  development  policy  by            apprentice) while leaming the trade.  There are no
responding  . trainingneedsnotaddressedby specific government regulations that pertain to the
responding to training needs not addressed by           apprenticeship contract.  The training provided to
existing firms.                                         apprentices is very practically oriented but limited in
scope; no academic training is provided, and it is
27.    To  play  its  role,  FDFP  was  given           therefore widely perceived as an inferior form of TVET,
extended responsibilities over the utilization of        relative to that acquired in the formal TVET system. In
both the Apprenticeship  and  the CVT  taxes.    the formal sector, young workers can be hired as
apprentices with an official contract and arrangements
Indeed, it (i) has control over the entire CVT and      (including a lower than regular salary and specific
Apprenticeship taxes (although firms are allowed        contractual terms fixing the responsibilities of the
to keep half of the CVT tax to pre-financing their    parties). Currently, apprentices represent about 7% of
training plans, said the employers' portion), as it    formal employment. In both the formal and informal
also approves the utilization of the employers'          sectors, the apprenticeship appeals mostly to individuals
portion of the tax; (ii) certifies the training firrns;  who lack the qualifications to gain access to the formal
porton  f te tx; (i)  ertfie  thetranin  fims; TVET system, or those who have dropped out of the
(iii) approves the training activities which qualify     system.
for  the   funding   by   the   pooled   funds;
(iv) monitors, controls, and evaluates the training
activities; (v) initiates the sectoral studies; and
(vi) inforns, sensitizes, and counsels the firms.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  10
28.   FDFP was created by a law passed in December 1991. It is administered by a 12-member
tripartite Management Committee (Government, employers, and unions) each of them represented by four
persons, and overseen by the Ministry in charge of Economy, Finance and Planning. The Management
Committee (MC) determines the fundamental policy of FDFP, establishes the criteria and approval
procedures of training projects, approves private training centers/firms, approves the recurrent budget
of FDFP, selects the secretary general, and appoints the heads of the technical services; in addition, the
Management Committee reviews and approves training proposals with total costs exceeding CFAF100
million (about US$170,000). FDFP is currently improving its internal management to give greater
autonomy to technical staff, reserving policy for the Management Committee.
29.   A General Secretary (GS), nominated by the Management Committee and appointed by decree,
leads the regular operations of FDFP in accordance with the general policy defined by the Management
Committee. The GS oversees three services in charge of: (i) In-Service Vocational Training; (ii) Pre-
Service and Apprenticeship; and (iii) Information and Management, which employs altogether 35
permanent, including 20 professional, staff.
30.   To introduce greater flexibility in the financing and operations of the training system, the firms'
CVT contributions and the apprenticeship tax are directly transmitted from the Revenue Service
(Direction Generale des Imp6ts) to FDFP's account at CAA. In addition, a number of new measures
were taken:
(i)       The employers are allowed to directly manage half of their assessed tax to finance outlays
for training activities packaged together to form a training plan (see Annex III: FDFP's
Operations Manual) pre-approved and monitored by FDFP; they have to pass on any
unused portion of this amount to FDFP which adds these to a "mutual fund" subsequently
redistributed as described below.
(ii)      The other half of CVT tax revenues cover FDFP's operating expenses (approximately 9
percent) with the bulk (approximately 91 percent) constituting the core of the mutual
fund, which serves to finance FDFP's Management Committee-approved training
proposals submitted by (a) individual tax-paying firms whose training expenses for the
year exceeded the first half of the CVT contributions they have retained (the total cost
of their training proposal may even be higher than their total CVT contributions); (b)
groups of tax-paying firms with similar training needs (inter-enterprise training); or (c) by
NGOs, local communities, and informal sector groups (collective training projects).
Under current plans, FDFP would allocate 30 percent of the proportion of the mutual
fund for financing training to each of the above categories, and the remaining 10 percent
would support training-related studies.
31.   Under current arrangements, firms are fully responsible for procuring training of their employees
with FDFP being responsible for procuring collective training projects. In general, the prevalent
procurement procedures are such that enterprises and FDFP select, from an open-ended list of pre-
qualified training firms (private and public) updated continuously by FDFP, those who present the best
prospects for providing quality training; this assessment is made on the basis of the training firms'
reputation, prior experience with the sponsors, and assumed qualification for the training proposed (as
supported by the qualification of the trainers). Under the project, this list of pre-qualified training,
currently organized in alphabetical order, firms will be restructured and publicized to show the areas of
specialization. This would reveal areas of deficiencies and those of excess supply of training, and
encourage unregistered training firms to apply for pre-qualification. This list will be periodically



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  11
reviewed by the Bank. In addition, the procurement arrangements will be modified to permit greater
competition and transparency, as described in greater detail in paragraph 65.
4.            Prospects
32.    To respond to the needs of the economy today the entire training system should satisfy several
requirements as follows: (i) support the improvement of labor productivity and the enhancement of
economic competitiveness through timely delivery of appropriate training; (ii) meet new skill demands
generated by technological changes and economic structuring; (iii) retrain displaced workers to facilitate
their job re-insertion; (iv) support informal sector activities through improvement of the general and
specific knowledge in this sector; and, finally, (v) facilitate the match between education and the labor
market requirements and facilitating the transition from school to work by providing labor market relevant
knowledge to graduates.
33.    The current training (supply) system is ill equipped to satisfy these needs because: (i) it lacks
flexibility to quickly respond to the needs; (ii) small firms have difficulties providing training given the
relatively high cost of the training facilities relative to the total amount of their contributions; (iii) CVT
is, by the origin of its resources, limited with respect to what it can do in favor of the informal sector
and the unemployed; and (iv) CVT's resources are currently insufficient to satisfy the needs identified.
34.    Therefore, to fully contribute to the enhancement of the country's economic competitiveness
through the development of its human capital base, FDFP should broaden its mandate to include workers
outside the formal sector. FDFP should undertake or further develop the following actions aimed at
redynamizing CVT in the country, and reaching out for groups which have been excluded so far:
(i) promoting and financing training programs imparting knowledge and skills to the working-age
disadvantaged population groups to facilitate their transition to work; (ii) supporting training and
retraining programs for retrenched and other displaced workers to facilitate their re-insertion into
employment and their adaptation to new technologies and work environments; and (iii) providing support
to micro-enterprise/informal sector activities to improve the general and specific skills of workers engaged
in these activities. The goal of the proposed project is to support and help implement these strategies.
D. Government's Training Strategy
35.   In summary, Government's policy for the employment and training sectors, stated as part of the
Human Resource Development Program, is: (i) that the competitiveness of the Ivorian economy depends
on the quality and adaptability of the labor force to absorb new technologies, diversify production, and
eventually create new enterprises; (ii) that there is need to improve the relevance of training to
employment opportunities now and to keep training responsive to future labor market needs; and (iii) that
there should be a high level of attention paid to training to improve qualifications, not just certification,
of workers. Government has operationalized this in a two-level strategy. For the pre-service (formal)
trainin,e sector, there has been a significant attempt to rationalize the use of resources committed to the
vocational and technical training institutions at the post-secondary level (grandes ecoles), and take the
initial steps to improve the relevance and cost effectiveness of the secondary technical and professional
training establishments. In both of these cases, Government has required the management of these
institutions, individually where permitted by law, and collectively, to establish direct contact with
employers to provide more "demand-driven" pre-service training. One step in making this policy
operational was the creation in 1993 of the Agence Nationale de la Formation Professionnelle (AGEFOP),
which is expected to promote and coordinate training for non-regular students (apprentices, employed



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  12
labor force, for example) using Government vocational training facilities and equipments during evening
and slack time. Regarding in-service training, as indicated above, Government has established FDFP to
manage both the revenues generated by the apprenticeship and the continuous vocational training tax
under an independent tripartite board to consolidate the operations of the now liquidated ONFP and FNR.
In order to improve flexibility in the labor market itself, Government has suppressed the monopoly
powers of a state labor certification and placement board (OMOCI) and is in the process (under the
auspices of the Regulatory Reform SECAL, PASCO) of refining the Labor Code to remove market
rigidities. It has also recently re-organized its own in-house capacity for labor market monitoring and
advisory service in the form of a new agency, AGEPE (Agence d'etudes et de promotion de l'emploi),
which, in addition to labor market monitoring through one of its services --the Observatoire-- is expected
to address employment creation issues.
36.   Government's strategy for both pre-service and in-service training has been relatively silent on
gender equity issues, in spite of inequitable access to education and training: girls represent 41% of
primary students and 29% of secondary students (including 30% of VET students). Previous studies of
the labor market in Cote d'lvoire have shown that formal labor force participation of uneducated women
is much lower than that of men; it is therefore not surprising that with such inequitable access to
education and training, the proportion of women in private employment is low (8%). In-service training
also has yet to design a clear strategy to enhance women's job skills; they currently represent 12% of the
number of employees having benefitted from training between 1987 and 1992.
37.   Government's original strategy in the area of vocational and technical training was to provide
essential pre-employment, basic education and general training services and require employers to provide
continuing, in-service training. The strategy is now evolving towards one of integration of employers'
participation (in terms of guidance and financing) in the provision of pre-service training, which had
previously been largely Government's responsibility, in addition to maintaining in-service training. One
of the consequences of this strategy is a progressive "quasi-privatization" of the formerly publicly-
managed technical training establishment. This trend in strategy is clearly consistent with the policy
recommendations of the Bank. However, to avoid having the entire financial burden of the new approach
fall on employers (who are now even less able to support in-service training than in the past), thus
reducing their competitiveness, this strategy also implies the need for a new approach to financing
training, involving pooling of Cote d'lvoire and industry resources under shared management. The
creation of FDFP to manage employer-generated resources has been a partial response to this need, which
now needs to be completed by Government's providing additional resources, initially through the Credit
proceeds, to FDFP to complement employer's contributions.
E. Bank's Experience and Role
38.   The Bank group has been involved in VET in C6te d'Ivoire since 1970, the year of the first
education project in the country. Since then, it has financed two other education projects, each of them
including building of VET centers. The main lessons learned from Bank's involvement in VET in C6te
d'Ivoire are related to its low internal efficiency, low enrollment with regards to capacity and level of
investment (and therefore high unit costs), and weak links with the labor market requirements. More
recently, the Bank-supported FY91 C6te d'Ivoire Human Resource Development Program (HRDP)
addressed the major causes of the poor performance of the formal and informal education and training
system and stressed its lack of relevancy, its inability to anticipate changes in the structure of the labor
force of the country and future employment opportunities resulting from weak links with employers.
Furthermore, the operations of non-formal training (managed by the ONFP and the FNR), which was



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  13
supposed to compensate for the lack of relevancy of the formal VET system, were seriously compromised
by crucial problems related to delayed disbursement of funds collected through the payroll levies; the
FNR had not been able to honor commitments to training providers nor to reimburse enterprises for their
in-service training, thereby compromising their commitment to in-service training and contributing to a
growing disequilibrium between the general and particular skill level of the Ivorian labor force and the
needs of the most competitive industries in the country.
39.    Among the key recommendations of the HRD program were (i) the liquidation of ONFP and
FNR; (ii) the unification of two taxes under a unique and autonomous management; (iii) the elimination
of the monopoly of Manpower Office (OMOCI) as sole labor market intermediary; and (iv) the
establishment of an Observatoire to monitor the evolution of the labor market and the training needs.
The Government took important steps in this direction: (i) it established a new training fund (FDFP)
managed jointly by employers, workers, and Government; (ii) it created and is establishing a labor market
Observatoire; and (iii) in the context of the HRDP, it is taking initiatives, though modest, to make the
formal training institutions (80 vocational and technical schools, 6 grandes ecoles and the University)
more responsive to the needs of the labor market. In addition, measures taken as part of the Bank-
supported Competitiveness Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program (PASCO) removed some of the
rigidities in the operations of the labor market. While all these measures represent a significant effort,
they are relevant for a relatively small proportion of the labor force in the formal sector, accounting for
8 percent of the working population. The Government has since recognized the need to be more pro-
active and more inclusive and to expand the concept of employer to include the self-employed as well as
employers and employees in the informal sector, which account for an additional 25 percent of the active
population.
40.    Therefore, the tripartite management structure of FDFP and its financing respond to many of the
lessons learned in C6te d'Ivoire and elsewhere, that for technical in-service and pre-service training to
be effectively demand driven, it should be directed with the stakeholder fully represented, and financed
through what amounts to a user charge. The project would be incorporated into this system. The project
would also rely on motivated self-interest on the part of potential beneficiaries, which is consistent with
lessons learned for successful "social fund" type activities. In addition, however, the project incorporates
special assistance to help "formalize" and strengthen the ability of the self-motivated to access the Fund,
which has been identified as a possible risk to improving contact with NGOs and the informal sector in
C6te d'Ivoire. Transparent and well-publicized criteria and operating procedures would guide the
operation of the project, which is consistent with a demand-driven approach.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
41.    Over the last few years, the Bank has argued with Government on the need to adopt policies
which will allow to restore competitiveness to the economy. To this end, it has financed two adjustment
operations --the FY91 Financial Sector and Regulatory Reform and Competitiveness SECALs-- to achieve
market conditions which favor growth. A third recent adjustment operation, the Human Resources
Development Program, explicitly recognized the necessity of improving vocational and technical training
performance, both in-service and pre-service, to provide the quality in the labor force (human capital)
required by a competitive and growing economy. Among other provisions, it included the fusion of
management of the apprenticeship and continuing training taxes under a unified tripartite Board.
Government met this condition by inaugurating FDFP, and consolidating the revenues of the two taxes
which are deposited in the FDFP's accounts at CAA. Government has also embraced the Bank-
recommended policy on technical and vocational training, and has begun the process of introducing a



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  14
"demand-driven" approach to these training services at the pre-secondary, secondary and post-secondary
levels. It has yet to fully embrace the Bank's recommendations concerning enhanced female education,
although it is doing so at the primary level. It has already taken steps to reduce costs, but needs
assistance in further operationalizing the strategy. The project would provide a next step in this process
and would help consolidate the new policy, and further advance training of women as part of the overall
sectoral strategy. The Bank has a strong comparative advantage in guiding this evolution.
42.   In addition, further to the recent currency devaluation and the expected restructuring of the formal
sector enterprises, new opportunities will be opened in the economy for small and medium-size firms
(SME), micro-enterprises and informal sector activities involved in the production of import-substitutable
goods and sub-contracting. Indeed, the Government has perceived this opportunity and indicated that
support to SMEs will be one of the major tenets of its economic policy.
43.    The Bank has also a strong commitment to addressing issues relating to poverty alleviation
through the creation of remunerative employment, advancing women's role in development, and
encouraging self-help initiatives for vulnerable groups. Information and know-how are key elements in
dealing with these issues. At present, initiatives are being taken through various NGOs to address these
issues. The project would provide an additional vehicle for a flexible response to the many needs for
information and know-how that these socio-economic groups have, as targeted interventions. The Bank
has a role to play in this activity.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives
44.    The project would contribute to (i) greater labor force productivity and mobility through technical
and basic skills training, with special emphasis on the needs of small informal sector and women's
enterprises; and (ii) the Government's capacity to monitor and analyze labor market conditions, relevant
to the formulation of an adequate labor force development strategy, including the improvement of the
skills match between labor supply and demand. Operationally, for the formal sector, this objective would
be translated into an increased number of enterprises which would regularly develop and execute training
plans for their employees. For the informal sector, this objective would be translated into an increase
in the number of men, women, and adolescents participating in sponsored group training to improve
present work skills, develop improved entry-level skills, and raise their capacity to cope in numerous
aspects of daily life (nutrition, literacy and numeracy, coping with administration procedures, homecrafts,
etc.) as interest is manifested and mobilized by concerned sponsors.
45.    Generally speaking, a project beneficiary would be any individual who could be included in a
group for training purposes (See Annex III). Organization of these groups would be done by a
"sponsor", who would present the proposal to FDFP for financing, on behalf of the beneficiaries. Within
this broad definition of "beneficiary", in addition to workers presently employed in the formal sector for
whom the employer has traditionally been the sponsor, persons with various social and economic
backgrounds would be included. Many of these individuals are already being organized or are organizing
themselves for other purposes. They include, for example, urban women for family planning services,
rural women through the Bank-financed WID Pilot Project, rural and urban youth through various NGOs,
community self-help and improvement organizations, or small-scale self employed persons and
tradespersons (petits metiers). Given the special circumstances of the informal sector, however, special



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  15
attention would be given to the needs of groups of women, and it would be part of the project's design
to introduce an element of "positive discrimination" in this sense.
46.   Progress in meeting project objectives would be judged quantitatively, against an indicative
distribution of training grants by age and gender classes, agreed at the beginning of the project as project
performance indicators (See Annex VII). Progress in meeting the project objectives qualitatively would
be judged through periodic ex post assessment of the value of the training from the beneficiaries' point
of view. This is less easily prescribed, but a review of quality assessment would be part of the annual
project reviews. The project would be integrated into FDFP's ongoing training and retraining program.
B. Project Description
47.    The project would, over a period of 4 years, finance a range of training activities for beneficiaries
from which FDFP management has received requests and to whom it has made awards, as a time-slice
of its medium-term program. It would adopt a more pro-active role in training hitherto neglected
segments of the labor force, broadly defined. The project would be strictly demand-driven with regards
to the number of trainees and training activities to be undertaken, skills areas and training modalities, and
it would support sponsored sub-projects satisfying a set of pre-defined criteria specified in the Operations
Manual (See Annex III). It would, however, specify a broad class of priority beneficiaries (para. 45)
which would be monitored and adjusted during the course of project implementation. To facilitate the
broadening of FDFP's clientele, the Project would finance the establishment and operations of an outreach
service within FDFP. Finally, the Project would contribute to building the capacity of a newly-created
employment Observatoire.
48.    The project would have three components. The first component --training, retraining, and
apprenticeship program-- would provide for (i) skills development and retraining of workers in small
existing formal sector firms which have been slow in developing training for their workers, micro-
enterprises, displaced workers, and women entrepreneurs; and (ii) training and apprenticeship in support
of first job insertion. Activities under this component would supplement the efforts already planned by
FDFP. The second component --training outreach-- would support FDFP's efforts to reach out and
promote demand for labor training. In addition, the project would provide, based on reviews of the
budget of FDFP, for increased institutional support to meet the needs for staffing, equipment and other
facilities generated by the increasingly pro-active posture on the part of program managers, and the
broader types of training to be financed. The third component --labor market monitoring-- would support
the development of an operational Observatoire capable of producing and regularly publishing the results
of a database and an information system to permit quantitative and qualitative assessments of training
needs and the impacts of the training provided on the firms' performance, on workers' productivity and
income, and on employment. The first two components would be managed by FDFP while the third
component would be managed by AGEPE.
1.     Component 1. Training. Retraining and Apprenticeship Program
(Total Component Cost: US$15.4 million, including contingencies)
49.    The project would support training and apprenticeship sub-projects, submitted to FDFP for
financing by individuals, production firms, or organizations (such as NGOs) and referred to as sponsors,
who had organized groups of beneficiaries, for this purpose. Project resources would be added to those
of FDFP to raise the available financing. Training would be furnished by private sector training



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report    16
organizations (commercial or voluntary) or institutions in the public sector (the university, grandes ecoles,
technical and professional secondary schools, training centers). In these cases where training by external
sources will not be available or is uncompetitive and in cases where continuation of courses will be
needed, sponsors may be allowed to carry out their own courses. The Bank, however, would not finance
these courses. Each training sub-project would be assessed on the value of its training content, its cost-
effectiveness compared to established "norms", its priority with respect to indicative gender and age
criteria, and the legitimacy of the sponsor and the credibility of the training institution. Criteria for these
evaluations would be agreed upon with the Bank, and published by FDFP in an operations manual to
assure transparency in their application. Without imposing quotas, the project would give priority to
specific groups which have been neglected for lack of funds and lack of interest, including employees of
smaller enterprises, employees of informal sector businesses, and the unemployed and the presently
unemployable. Priority would also be given to training projects designed to improve general competency
and issues of life quality, which are of particular importance to women. These priorities would be
established in the provisional allocation of training resources in the project's indicative budget. Cost
sharing is expected from the beneficiaries in terms of opportunity costs and other indirect costs incurred
by the training (i.e. lost income or production, transport and supplies, among others); consequently, the
project would finance 100% of the direct costs of training. The following describes a few categories of
potentially acceptable sub-projects; it is, however, not exclusive of other types of sub-projects for which
a genuine demand may exist.
Micro-enterprise Training Support
50.    This type of sub-project would support short-term skill upgrading training and enterprise-based
training benefitting micro and small entrepreneurs and informal sector production activities. They would
selectively promote sub-projects which emphasize methods of improving productivity in micro and small
enterprises and the informal sector through training and upgrading in areas such as technical skills,
business management skills (such as basic accounting and financial and economic evaluation), product
design and diversification, product marketing, standards application and adaptation, sub-contracting, and
choice and use of appropriate technologies. Priority would be given to training master craftsmen who
could then improve both the informal apprenticeship system and product development. The expected
outcome of such sub-projects would be (i) improvement in workers' productivity and small firms'
performance and productive adoption of new technologies; (ii) enhancement of product quality and
design; and (iii) an enhancement of micro and small firms' competitive positions.
Displaced Workers Training Support
51.    The target group for this category of sub-project would be workers retrenched from public or
private enterprises under managed workforce reduction programs. The sub-projects would provide skills
upgrading and retraining of retrenched workers with a view to facilitating their re-insertion in
employment. The selection of the training proposals would be based on an analysis of private sector
skills requirements and the training would aim to upgrade or update the theoretical and practical skills
of the trainees; however, in cases where the current skills are redundant, the project would support the
acquisition of new or related skills. The emphasis of the sub-projects would be on upgrading trainees
on the latest technical and technological development in their fields. The expected outcome of these sub-
projects would be an improvement in the reinsertion rate of displaced workers.
Women Entrepreneurs Training Support



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  17
52.   This category of sub-project would support, through technical and management training, the
development of micro-enterprises initiated and already managed by women. The main training modality
would be on-the-job organized through professional or local women's associations. The focus of the
training would include enterprise management in general, and product marketing and distribution; when
the needs are expressed, the training would also include adult literacy. The expected outcomes of the
training would be an improvement of the number and sustainability of women's enterprises and an
increase in the income generated from these activities.
Training and Apprenticeship in Support of Job Insertion
53.   The project would support, if proposed by credible sponsors, training and apprenticeship sub-
projects to facilitate the insertion, in their first job, of school graduates and leavers who would have
established credible links with employers. The sub-projects would aim to provide skills and attitudes
required to succeed in employment. Improving functional literacy for primary school leavers would play
an important role in such training. Sub-projects in this category could aim to:
(a) support the transition to work of school graduates and leavers entering into employment; it could
provide "vestibule" training and work settings familiarization in order to ease the transition from
school to work.
(b) supplement ongoing government operations to provide young school graduates and leavers with initial
short-term employment (12 months) where they can acquire work skills through on-the-job learning
and a work record which they could refer to in their job search. Sub-projects would provide support
for the tutoring and monitoring of performance of the trainees.
(c) address longer-term skills needs and improve the transition from school to work of future higher
education graduates by combining pre-planned alternating periods of practical on-the-job training with
school-centered academic education. The project could finance summer job programs sponsored by
higher education institutions which would be in charge of searching or arranging for these practical
training periods; these training periods, which would be highly recommended for students in
transition to their graduating year, would aim to familiarize students with the work environment and
help them adapt their academic knowledge to the requirements of the workplace. The school would
assign a practical training supervisor to each student, and the firm would assign a tutor/master to
guide and counsel the student during the training and to monitor and evaluate his/her performance
in each of the positions held in the firm. Evaluation forms would be filled out and a formal
assessment of the practical training would take place between the supervisor, the tutor, and the
student. Similar programs have long been successfully tested by some grandes ecoles such as
INSET, which has the lowest ratio of unemployed graduates of all higher education institutions in
Cote d'Ivoire.
2.    Component 2. Training Outreach  (Total Component Cost:  US$1.1 million, including
contingencies)
54.   The project would support needed consultants' services, operating costs and incremental FDFP
staff to allow FDFP to organize and maintain an extensive outreach program to inform the public, the
potential sponsors, and beneficiaries of the objectives of FDFP's programs, the procedures and the
modalities to be followed by sponsors, and keep the public abreast of the evolution and performance of
the program. To carry out these activities, FDFP would use various means of reaching its constituency:



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  18
media, training sponsors, providers, and beneficiaries, and direct contacts through visits. The activities
included in the outreach program would be carried out over the duration of the project in two phases; an
initial pro-active phase during the first year aimed at promoting FDFP's work outside its usual client
group (formal sector enterprises) and geographic coverage (Abidjan). During the subsequent years,
FDFP would continue to inform and report to the public on performance and achievements in the training
field. To accelerate the start up of this essential component of the project, a PPF advance to finance a
set of key studies, FDFP's staff training and a test promotion campaign were made available to the
Government.
55.    As FDFP's clientele develops, the project would support FDFP's efforts to raise its capacity to
effectively carry out its mission through a staff development program. The project would provide for
resources to hire four additional training specialists to assess training proposals, additional vehicles and
equipment, consultant services, and staff training in the skills required for the effective management of
the components described above. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would have taken a
Decree establishing an Outreach and Promotion service in FDFP [para. 90(a)]
3.     Component 3. Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis
(Total Component Cost: US$3.0 million, including contingencies)
56.   The project would contribute to building the capacity of a newly created agency (AGEPE) under
the supervision of the Ministry of Employment and Civil Service to monitor and analyze labor market
conditions, relevant to the formulation of an adequate labor force development strategy, including skills
training. In particular, AGEPE would ensure the timely availability of relevant data and analyses on the
status and evolution of employment and employment creation, labor force structure (i.e., balance between
the demand and supply for educated and trained people), labor productivity, labor force education and
training, technology and skills requirements, training impact on productivity and employment, wages and
non-wages benefits, labor market regulations (collective agreements and others). With the expected
improvements in labor market monitoring and labor market information, the inputs required for
employment assistance and job insertion support would become available. In the medium and long-term,
labor market analysis will help focus current national employment policy, identify additional measures
to support present and future program objectives, and balance and/or shift resource allocation between
skills training per se and labor market support services. The latter would include guidelines on labor
market reforms, obtaining access to productive assets and skill upgrading, sub-contracting relations
between large-medium and small manufacturing enterprises as a means of transferring technology and
expanding markets for intermediate outputs, and targeting different groups in the informal sector
enterprises, where the largest portion of beneficiaries is likely employed and growth is fastest.
57.    For this purpose, the project would finance staff training and systems development of the OEMF
(Observatoire de l'Emploi. des Metiers et de la Formation), one of the two services of AGEPE, with the
objective of obtaining a flow of information and advice to policy makers, private sector firms and other
agencies and institutions involved in labor market issues and labor force training. The Regional ILO
Office which has indicated its interest in supporting this initiative with its own program in parallel with
IDA, will provide technical support through training and technical assistance.  Specifically, this
component would support (a) the institutional development of the OEMF, including staff training,
consulting services, and equipment; and (b) a program of activities involving the following: (i) the
review, gathering and processing of all available information from various sources (surveys,
administrative registers, and other existing databases) and the necessary technical assistance; (ii) the
promotion, through agreement with AGEPE, of increased coverage and representativity of surveys,



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  19
improvements of questionnaires and other survey instruments and data quality, and greater use and greater
access to existing information; (iii) the definition of a basic set of statistics to reflect medium and long-
term structural changes; (iv) a program of specific surveys and studies to be carried out in collaboration
with employers or contracted to private sector firms; and (v) the regular and timely production and
dissemination of short-term and long-term statistics to allow for the monitoring, on quarterly, annual and
multi-annual bases, of changes in employment, labor costs, productivity, and skills requirements. (See
Annex IV for a description and workplan of the labor market monitoring and analysis agency.)
C. Project Impact Evaluation
58.   The project would build up FDFP's capacity to monitor results of individual training projects by
instituting a systematic framework for data collection and evaluation of all sub-projects supported under
the project. The evaluation would pursue two main objectives: (i) to assess the quality, timeliness and
effectiveness of FDFP's services; and, (ii) to assess the performance (in terms of cost-effectiveness) of
the project and of its different support modalities, and the extent to which it would have reached its
objectives (in terms of performance and productivity of enterprises, and on employment of the
unemployed, and incomes of the employed). FDFP would base its evaluation on periodic operational
reviews, detailed case studies and time-series data systematically collected from participating firms and
on longitudinal data gathered on several trainee cohorts of project participants. Responsibility for
carrying out the evaluation of training activities would rest with FDFP under the supervision of its
Management Committee, and in coordination with the directorates responsible for program
implementation. Project monitoring and evaluation are discussed further in para. 79; impact indicators
are presented in Annex VII.
59.   At a more global level, AGEPE would provide timely and reliable labor market data that will
permit monitoring of indicators which are influenced by training or are useful in assessing and orienting
the training strategy. The project's labor market monitoring activities would be assessed in terms of the
usefulness for policy making as measured by the timeliness and reliability (including coverage) of the data
collected, and the rapidity in processing and disseminating of the results. Responsibilities for carrying
out the evaluation of labor market monitoring activities would rest with AGEPE under the supervision
of its Management Advisory Commission (MAC).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. MANAGEMENT. COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs and Financing
60.   Total project costs are estimated at US$19.5 million, including taxes and duties, with a foreign
exchange component of US$4.5 million (23%). Taxes and duties are estimated at US$0.9 million (5%)
and total contingencies at US$0.9 million (5%). Detailed project costs and financing are summarized in
Annex IX.
61.   The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$17 million equivalent, representing 87%
of total project costs. The contribution from the Government and FDFP is estimated at US$2.5 million
equivalent (13%) and includes 100% of taxes and duties. Estimated physical contingencies of 10% have
been included for goods and 5 % for services. Estimated price contingencies for foreign exchange costs
are estimated at 2.5 %. Estimated price contingencies for local currency are provided in Table 4. 1 below:



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report        20
Table 4.1: Price Contingencies for Local Currency (Estimates)
1994           1995            1996           1997            1998
1. Goods                       35.4           6.4             5.6            4.5             4.5
2. Salaries                    10.0           5.0             5.0             5.0            5.0
3. Services and Training       12.0           8.0             6.0             6.0            6.0
The breakdown of total project costs by component, including contingencies, is as follows:
(a)        Component 1:   US$15.4 million to cover the incremental costs associated with
broadening the training of beneficiaries and the types of training to be offered;
incremental staff of FDFP (4 local specialists) to assess training proposals, and ensure
adequate supervision of training delivery;
(b)        Component 2: US$1.1 million to cover the costs associated with the administration of
the outreach activities; incremental technical staff of FDFP (4 local specialists); a small
complement of vehicles and equipment, and consultant services to improve outreach
capacity, and associated operating costs; and,
(c)        Component 3: US$3.0 million to cover the costs associated with the development of
activities leading to the establishment of the Observatoire (labor market monitoring and
analyses); these will include equipment, and consultant services, and associated operating
costs (including logistical and operational support).
62.    The determinants of the cost of training vary considerably with the level of training required, the
specialty involved, the number of days required to complete a training phase, the nature of the training,
the experience of the trainers, and the number of persons participating in a training session, among
others. FDFP, based on the dispositions of a 1983 Government Decree establishing a fee schedule for
consulting firms, has estimated total fee-per-day norms for approving training proposals for some standard
skills (secretarial, accountancy, etc.); these fees vary between CFAF 71,000 (about US$122) and CFAF
168,000 (about US$290). Proposals funded by FDFP have included per-day costs as low as CFAF 2,000
(about US$3.50) per participant in large classes for relatively simple messages. FDFP annually updates
its cost estimates, based on actual experience and independent enquiries as part of the accreditation
process for training firms. Costs considered eligible for financing would include the direct cost of
training (fees for trainers, overheads of the institution providing the training, materials used for training
but not production, housing and meals for trainees in the case of residency training).
63.    Based on the 1993 estimated budget, total revenues from the continuing vocational training (CVT)
taxes would reach CFAF 2.8 billion (about US$4.8 million) for the year. This amount has proven to be
insufficient to cover more than the training costs of the largest firms. It is clearly insufficient to permit
more of the smaller formal sector firms to participate in training, and to extend the facility to a growing
part of the informal sector. To assure the greatest flexibility and responsiveness in the training to be



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report      21
offered to the small and informal sector firms, the project would increase supplement employers'
contributions, as a contribution from the Government to FDFP.
Table 4.2: Project Cost Summary
Project Component and Sub-Component          Foreign        Local          Total           % Total Base
Costs
1. Component 1: Training, Retraining
and Apprenticeship Program                  3.1           12.1           15.2                82
2. Component 2: Training Outreach Support     0.1            0.7            0.8                 4
3. Component 3: Labor Market Monitoring        1.1           1.3            2.4                 13
4. Refunding of PPF                            --            0.2            0.2                 1
Base Costs                                    4.3           14.3            18.6              100
Physical Contingencies                    0.1            0.1            0.2                 1
Price Contingencies                       0.1            0.6            0.7                 4
Total Project Costs                           4.5           15.0            19.5              105
(Net of Taxes and Duties)                                                  (18.6)
B. Project Procurement and Disbursement
1.     Procurement Arrangements
64.    Table 4.3 below summarizes the project elements and their estimated cost and proposed method
of procurement.
65.    Procurement procedures under the project would be undertaken as follows:
(a) Works: Too small to attract bidders from abroad, rehabilitation works for AGEPE's offices (wall
repairing and painting, floor lining, office redesigning, etc.), estimated to cost US$80,000 equivalent,
net of taxes and duties, will be procured using LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA, which will at the
minimum include local advertising, public bid opening, clarity in evaluation criteria, and award to the
lowest evaluated bidder.
(b) Goods: Goods (US$0.52 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties) will be procured in accordance
with Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Bank's Standard Bidding Documents or approved models as
follows:
(i)       Equipment estimated to cost more than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.3 million equivalent will be procured under



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  22
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
(ii)      Equipment estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$40,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
(iii)     Vehicles estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.12 million equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association or under contracts entered into with IAPSO.
(iv)      Standard items such as software, spare parts and accessories which are of a
proprietary nature, estimated to cost less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not exceeding US$20,000 equivalent, may be purchased under direct
contracting in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
(v)       Other Goods available locally, such as furniture for FDFP and AGEPE, as well as
materials, for an aggregate value not exceeding US$0.04 million equivalent, will be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Consultancies: Consultancies (US$16.62 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties) will be procured
in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 1981, and the FDPF's Operation Manual
procedures acceptable to the Association, as follows:
(i)       Technical Assistance for training, studies, and other services (approximately 85 person-
months, all short-term) for a total estimated amount of US$2.12 million equivalent, net
of taxes and duties, will be provided by firms and individual consultants, in a large
majority coming from C6te d'Ivoire. Selection procedures will be in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based
assignments, consultants will be employed under contracts acceptable by the Association
and prepared on the basis of the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank. When no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms, acceptable by the Association, will be used. Draft terms of
reference (TORs) for planned technical assistance needs to be financed under the Project
and technical studies were Drepared by FDFP and AGEPE and reviewed by IDA during
negotiations. [para. 88(e)]
(ii)      Labor Force Training constitutes the bulk of the project, with a total estimated amount
of US$14.5 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties, and includes training supported
by the development of training and apprenticeship sub-projects which will be procured



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  23
in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants and FDFP's Operation
Manual procedures acceptable to the Association. An updated list of pre-qualified
training firms subdivided on the basis of areas of expertise was submitted to IDA and
discussed during negotiations. [para. 88(f)]
(d) Miscellaneous for an aggregate amount of US$1.4 million equivalent, for local staff, office running
expenses, fuel, and in-country travel allowances will be procured by the executing agencies following
local procedures acceptable to IDA. Fuel consumption will be monitored on the basis of mileage
recording, and travel allowances will be consistent with Government's guidelines.
66.    Procurement Management: There is no prior experience in implementing such project in the
country.  However, based on experience on other projects, and the analysis of current training
procurement methods, the following was agreed upon:
(a)       the FDFP will be responsible for the procurement of training financed under the project;
(b)       FDFP's Operations Manual procedures based on the Guidelines and acceptable to the
Association will be used in awarding all training contracts;
(c)       initial training of FDFP staff and other key actors in procurement will be provided
through a PPF, and further refreshing training activities will be organized during
execution of the project; and
(d)       IDA supervision missions will review a sample of contracts awarded in a view to assess
compliance with the procedures agreed upon.
67.    Review: During project implementation, contracts for IDA-financed works and goods above a
threshold of US$50,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Selected post-review of
awarded contracts below the threshold level will be carried out on about 20 percent of the contracts for
goods. Prior review or approval by the Association of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation (LOIs), proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$0.1 million equivalent each or
(b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to US$0. 1 million equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to US$50,000 equivalent or above.
In order to enhance the Labor Force Training supply at a competitive cost, FDFP will prompt and invite
applications of local private training firms to be included in a long list of qualified training providers
based on their previous experience and specialties [paras. 31 and 65(c)(ii)]. The list, which will be
subject to prior review by IDA, will be regularly updated and will be subdivided on the basis of the areas
of expertise of the training providers. After IDA has given its no-objection to the list, FDFP will
establish shortlists of three or four firms for each of the specialties and proceed, with no further approval
by IDA, to the award of contracts on the basis of (i) TORs, LOIs and standard contracts previously
agreed with IDA and (ii) evaluation of proposals based on criteria, including costs, as defined in the
LOIs. The list of pre-qualified firms will be subject to periodic reviews by IDA. All sole source
contracts will be subject to prior review by IDA.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report      24
68.    Recording of Procurement Information: Procurement information will be collected as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the Borrower (assisted by consultants as necessary),
indicating:
(i)        revised cost estimates for individual contracts resulting from inflation;
(ii)      timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and
completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)      compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement;
(c) at the time of supervision missions, a detailed statement of all procurement undertaken to-date
together with a forward forecast of anticipated procurement estimate of disbursement to be
undertaken in the coming year.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report      25
Table 4.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million, net of taxes and duties)
Procurement   Method
Project Element                               I.S.      L.C.B.    Other    N.I.F       Total
1. WORKS                                                 0.08                           0.08
(0.07)                         (0.07)
2. GOODS
2.1 Equipment                                0.30                  0.04 a/              0.34
(0.30)               (0.04)               (0.34)
2.2 Vehicles                                                      0 12 b/               0.12
(0.12)              (0.12)
2.3 Software, Spare parts & Accessories                            0.02 c/              0.02
(0.02)              (0.02)
2.4 Furniture/Materials                                 0.04                            0.04
(0.04)                         (0.04)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1 Project Preparation & Implementation                           1.75 d/              1.75
Support                                                        (1.75)               (1.75)
3.2 Institutional Development                                      0.37 d/              0.37
(0.37)              (0.37)
3.3 Labor Force Training                                          14.50 e/             14.50
(13.05)             (13.05)
4. MISCELLANEOUS
4.1 Incremental Salaries                                          0.62 e/               0.62
(0.62)               (0.62)
4.2 Travel & Per Diem                                             0.47 e/               0.47
(0.33)               (0.33)
4.3 O&M, Vehicles/Equipment                                       0.21 e/               0.21
(0.15)               (0.15)
4.4 Office Supply                                                 0.10 e/               0.10
(0.07)               (0.07)
TOTAL                                    0.30       0.12      18.20                18.62
(0.30)     (0.11)    (16.52)             (16.93)
Notes: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts rwanced by IDA.
I.S. = International Shopping.
L.C.B. = Local Competitive Bidding.
N.I.F. = Not IDA-Financed.
a/ Local shopping.
b/ Local shopping or IAPSO.
c/ Direct contracting.
d/ In accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
e/ In accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines and FDFP's Operation Manual procedures.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  26
2.     Disbursements
69.    The project is expected to be completed over a four-year period with IDA credit disbursed over
five years according to the categories shown in Table 4.4. The estimated disbursement profile is shown
in Annex X. Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be fully documented. However, the Borrower will
be permitted to submit withdrawal applications for contracts of less than US$ 25,000 equivalent on the
basis of certified SOEs. For training programs, following current practice, FDFP will establish financing
conventions with the training sponsors specifying the purpose, beneficiaries, expected outcomes,
monitoring responsibilities, and costs estimates. For the provision of these programs, contracts will be
signed between the FDFP and the training providers, consistent with Bank guidelines and procedures,
specifying the responsibilities, monitoring and evaluation procedures, disbursements conditions and
schedule. Disbursements will be made by FDFP on this basis, and final payment granted following
positive evaluation and the clearance of both the sponsors and FDFP. Disbursements against eligible
expenditures will be audited semi-annually. Documents for withdrawals under SOEs will be retained by
the executing agencies for review by IDA supervision missions and for project auditors.
70.    Two Special Accounts (SA), one for FDFP and one for AGEPE, would be opened and maintained
at CAA for the duration of the project; in addition, two Project Accounts (PA) to receive counterpart
funding will be opened at CAA. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA would make initial deposits of US$0.5
million equivalent for Special Account A, and US$0.1 million equivalent for Special Account B and
would replenish the accounts upon receipt of appropriate documentation satisfactory to IDA for incurred
eligible expenditures. Replenishment requests will be made, accompanied by up-to-date CAA account
statements and reconciliations. Applications for direct payments or reimbursement would apply to
contracts above US$25,000 equivalent.
71.   The Public Investments Directorate (DIP) will be responsible for recording in the Investments and
Equipment Special Budget (BSIE) the project financing as follows: (i) BSIE-CAA for the IDA Credit;
and (ii) BSIE-Tresor for the counterpart funds. In its capacity as Ordonnateur D6legue (i.e. the institution
entitled to authorize budgetary expenses) for the BSIE, DIP will establish all the documentation required
for the transfer of counterpart funding into the Project Account, and will verify all the transfer of funds
from the Credit Account into the Special Accounts. (See Annex XI)



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  27
Table 4.4  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Amount of Credit Allocated  % of Expenditures
Category                                  (in US$ million)          to be Financed
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
1. Civil Works                                 0.06                    85%
2. Equipment and Furniture
(a) FDFP                                     0.02                    100%
(b) AGEPE                                    0.35                    100%
3. Vehicles
(a) FDFP                                     0.04                    100%
(b) AGEPE                                    0.05                    100%
4. Consultant Services
(a) FDFP                                     0.30                    100%
(b) AGEPE                                     1.13                   100%
5. Training
(a) Labor Force Training                     13.05                   90%
(b) Staff Training FDFP                      0.09                    100%
(c) Staff Training AGEPE                     0.14                    100%
6. Incremental Staff Salary (FDFP)             0.62                    100%
7. Other Operating Costs
(a) General Operating Costs (FDFP)            0.33                   70%
(b) General Operating Costs (AGEPE)           0.12                   70%
8. Refunding of PPF                            0.20                    100%
9. Unallocated                                 0.50
TOTAL CREDIT AMOUNT                        17.00
3.     Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
72.    The executing agencies (FDFP and AGEPE) would be responsible for the project's financial
management and would maintain consolidated project accounts. Project accounts, including the CAA
accounts, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under
SOEs would be audited semi-annually. The terms of reference for the audits of the FDFP would cover
accounting/financial matters as well as management and implementation as described in the Operations
Manual. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA at least six months after the end of each calendar
year. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will (i) employ, throughout the
project. independent auditors for the auditing of AGEPE's and FDFP's respective accounts (para. 89(h),
(ii) submit to IDA annual audit reports. of reasonable scope and detail, within four months of the end of
the fiscal year. and (iii) in the case of SOEs. submit semi-annual reports by April 30 and October 30 of



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  28
each year of the proiect period [para. 89(c)]. The signature of a contract or contracts by FDFP and
AGEPE with independent auditors for the auditing of FDFP's and AGEPE's accounts is a condition of
effectiveness [para. 90(d)].
73.    Following several months of implementation of the accounting and budget procedures used by
the old FNR, FDFP is currently revising them. In this context, FDFP will:
(a) Combine the two accounting systems to which it was submitted --the general accounting system, for
private firms, and the budget accounting system, for public institutions-- into one which would meet
the requirements of the two systems: (i) using the calendar year as the unique budget/fiscal cycle;
and, (ii) harmonize the classification of accounts of the two systems, so requiring only one entry for
the operations;
(b) Setup and formalize new procedures to take into account the changes in (i) the tax collection
procedures and their direct depositing in FDFP account opened in CAA books; (ii) the retainment
by firms of half of their assessed CVT contributions; and (iii) the reduction of the implementation
periods of the training plans and its impact on the treatment of liabilities carried over from year to
year;
(c) Implement the recommendations of the 1992 audit of the FNR accounts;
(d) Enhance the internal auditing system; and
(e) Enhance the current and estimated budget management.
74.    These efforts would be completed with the implementation of the eventual recommendations of
the 1993 audit report, and the disbursement requirements specified in para. 69. Before negotiations, the
Government submitted (i) FDFP's 1994 approved budget [para. 88(b)], and (ii) the audit report of the
FNR. [para. 88(c)] The Government also gave assurances that (i) it will continue to make available to
FDFP the proceeds of the CVT and Apprenticeship taxes until the completion of the Project, and (ii) it
will submit to the Association for its approval any proposal to modify the current tripartite management
structure of FDFP during Project implementation. [paras. 89(e) & (f)]. As a condition of effectiveness.
the Government will (i) submit an opinion satisfactory to IDA of auditors acceptable to the Association,
confirming that FDFP is free from any liabilities, past. present and future. incurred by any of the
Borrower's agencies involved or previously involved in vocational training and in particular FNR and
ONFP: (ii) provide the 1993 fiscal year audit report of FDFP's accounts: and (iii) the Government and
FDFP have executed the financing agreement between the Government and FDFP for making available
to FDFP the relevant amounts of the proceeds of the Credit for the implementation of the activities to
be carried out by the latter. [paras. 90(f), (g), & (h)]



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  29
C. Project Implementation and Management
1.     Status of Project Preparation
75.    Project preparation benefitted from: (a) an intensive dialogue between the Bank, the Government
and Donors, leading to the conditions in HRDP and PASCO for establishing a policy environment
conducive to the efficient and effective development of human resources, as well as the labor market
operations; (b) an intensive dialogue between the Bank and NGOs in the context of the RCI Pilot WID
Project, and the preparation of the proposed RCI Women's Access Project; and (c) the Bank's
identification and preparation missions. Recent discussions with other Donors, especially the African
Development Bank and ILO, were held during the whole process of preparation and resulted in close
coordination and agreement on both the strategy for the development of labor market monitoring and
analysis and the priority programs to be implemented. ILO would, in the context of the project, provide
support, through technical assistance and training, to the building of the capacity of the Observatoire.
To accelerate the start up of the Outreach and Promotion Service, an essential component of the project,
a PPF advance to finance a set of key studies, FDFP's staff training and a test promotion campaign was
made available to the Government.
76.    Terms of reference for technical assistance funded under the project have been drafted at appraisal
and were agreed upon during negotiations, along with training schedules, and indicators of performance
of the projects. The revised draft of the Operations Manual along with a complete set of annexes was
submitted to IDA during negotiations [para. 88(a)]: the adoption by the FDFP's Management Committee.
of the operations manual ensuring the implementation of FDFP's activities and acceptable to the
Association is a condition of effectiveness. [para. 90(e)]
2.     Project Management
77.    Project components 1 and 2 would be managed by FDFP, which is mandated by the Government
to administer the apprenticeship and continuous vocational training taxes and build on the positive aspects
of FNR. FDFP is currently structured to receive, evaluate, finance and monitor sub-projects efficiently,
and does so. Its current staffing of some 35 persons, includes 20 professionals; among these 9 are
training specialists. FDFP's present capacity, subject to an increase in project evaluation staff by 4
professionals, would be fully adequate for managing the additional training requests (now running at an
annual rate of some 150). However, considering the increased emphasis to be given to gender-specific
concerns, FDFP would be encouraged to employ female professionals to participate in the evaluation
process. FDFP would evaluate, finance and eventually supervise the conduct of sub-projects based on
conditions outlined in its Operations Manual. FDFP is currently finalizing an updated manual which
contains (i) definitions of beneficiaries and training sponsors and providers; (ii) eligibility criteria for
proposed training projects and evaluation criteria for their acceptance; (iii) processing steps, including
sample forms and documents; (iv) monitoring and ex post evaluation procedures and criteria; and
(v) administrative information permitting understanding of FDFP operations.   An annual training
program review would assess performance against the benchmark and corrective actions taken as
required. In addition, a mid-term review would also be undertaken which would make an in-depth
analysis of the effects of the training on the beneficiaries.  As a condition of effectiveness, the
Government would (i) assign qualified staff in adeguate numbers to FDFP's Training Outreach and
Promotion service; and (ii) transmit the activity program and a set of performance criteria for the FDFP's
Outreach and Promotion service. [paras. 90 (b) & (c)]



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Traiing Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  30
78.   AGEPE would execute component 3. AGEPE, recently formed under the tutelage of the Ministry
of Employment and Civil Service, to assume diverse responsibilities is mandated by Government to
administer the National Solidarity Fund. As a Commercial and Industrial Public Establishment (EPIC,
in the administrative structure of the country) is expected to provide services for fees, and seek a large
proportion of its resources from other sources than the government budget; these sources include public
and private national and international institutions, FDFP, and extemal aid. As activities develop, AGEPE
is establishing its organizational structure and the recruitment of its personnel, who in large part are
selected among the most highly qualified professionals of the OMOCI and the ONFP. AGEPE will also
resort, as needed, to local and international consultants to assist in the execution of its program of
activities. AGEPE's present capacity to carry out some labor market survey and analysis activities is
progressively building up and data collection teams for the 1994 National Manpower Survey (an
establishment-based survey) have already been fielded. According to the Observatoire's staffing profile
it will employ 24 professionals; so far 8 professionals have been recruited. The project's support to the
development of AGEPE's capacity to develop a sustainable labor market monitoring and analysis system
would be reviewed annually to assess performance against indicators derived from an agreed upon
program of activities. This support would greatly benefit from the ILO effective support of this agency
to the development of the Observatoire. A detailed four-year program of activities for the development
of the Observatoire was submitted before negotiation [para. 88(d)].
3.    Proiect Monitorine and Evaluation
79.   Monitoring and evaluation of project performance would be carried out by the implementing
agencies. Key monitoring indicators are shown in Annex VII. In their role as executing agencies, FDFP
and AGEPE would (i) transmit quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the project to IDA
not later than April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31; (ii) submit annual projected program of
activities and budgets not later than January 31 of each year; (iii) organize and carry out with IDA during
the fourth quarter of each calendar year a review of progress made in implementing the project; and
(iv) carry out with IDA a mid-term review of progress made in implementing the project no later than
October 1996. Based on the review, the executing agencies would prepare and implement an action plan,
acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project activities. A special evaluation of the new
Outreach and Promotion Service will be carried out after the first year of project operation. The terms
of reference for this evaluation will be one of the outputs of the start-up study for the Service to be
carried out under a PPF prior to project effectiveness. Details of the Bank's supervision plan and on the
annual and mid-term reviews are provided in Annex XII. Within six months after the Credit Closing
Date, the executing agencies would transmit to IDA an Implementation Completion Report (ICR),
prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that these requirements would be met. [paras. 89(a), (b), (d) & (g)] As a condition of
effectiveness, the Government would assign qualified staff in adeguate numbers to the Observatoire de
I'Emploi of AGEPE. [para. 90 (i)]
4.    Implementation Schedule
80.   The project would be implemented over a four-year period (1994-98). This time period has been
selected based on the expected outcomes of the project activities to build the Ministry of Employment and
Civil Service's capacity to carry out labor market monitoring and analysis, notably survey taking, staff
training and professional development. Annex VIII provides the framework for implementing project
activities. The disbursement schedule for the project is provided in Annex X.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  31
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND IMPACT
A. Project Sustainability
81.   The Ivorian industrial sector has had a long association with the provision of in-service training
of its employees. Ivorian Unions have supported this activity. These same stakeholders have been
willing to use part of the taxes raised for apprenticeship and continuous training to train informal sector
beneficiaries who do not pay these taxes. Government itself has made serious reforms in the way in
which the revenue generated by these taxes is being administered, through the creation of FDFP in
January 1992, under the tutelage of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (this Ministry chairs the
management board of the Fund). This Fund has been given a mandate to support a broad range of pre-
service and in-service training of a wide spectrum of beneficiaries. There appears to be, therefore, a high
level of Government and private sector support for the strategy and objectives articulated for the Project.
82.   FDFP is now supported through earmarked taxes for apprenticeship and continuous training, to
which it has direct access. With low overheads relative to the actual budget for training purposes, FDFP
appears to be a financially sustainable institution. An assessment of its technical capacity supports this
conclusion. The increase in activity under the project would require approximately 25 % in FDFP current
operating budgets (personnel plus operating overhead) to about 8% of its total budget, assuming no new
firms begin paying apprenticeship and continuous training taxes and no new employment creation or
salary increases reflecting improved productivity occurs. Should the increase in operating expenditures
become unsustainable, FDFP's flexibility in reducing staffing and therefore operating expenditures would
permit a quick return to a balanced budget.
B. Project ImRact
83.   Poverty. The poor in C6te d'Ivoire are characterized by a low level of human capital as
measured by their general and vocational education/training; this in turn limits their access to
employment. The project would permit many Ivorians to acquire labor market relevant vocational skills
to enhance their employability, and therefore to undertake income generating activities, or improve their
productivity and earnings.
84.   Women in Development. Women represent only 8% of formal employment but the large
majority of workers in the informal sector. The project, by reaching out and supporting the training of
workers in the small and micro-enterprises and informal sector firms, would provide women with greater
opportunity to enhance their skills, productivity, and earnings capacity.
85.   The Environment. The project is not expected to result in significant environmental impact and
has been assigned Category C.



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  32
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
86.   It is difficult at this time to estimate the number of individual beneficiaries of the project or the
impact of the project on their lives, overall labor productivity and the economy. This would, however,
be estimated during annual progress reviews, in a mid-term review and various evaluation studies of
project outcomes, conducted by independent analysts. As a proxy, however, at least 50% of the project
funds would be expected to be allocated to training needs of informal sector beneficiaries, of which 75 %
would be for training women entrepreneurs and 25 % would be allocated to the small formal sector firms
which have not recently embarked on personnel training programs.
87.    The principal risk of the project is that the demand for and the quality of the training provided
would be insufficient to have a significant impact on the productivity of the labor force. While there is
evidence of unmet demand, expressed by prospective sponsors (training institutions, large formal sector
employers, chambers of commerce and industry, NGOs and women's associations) this demand and the
capacity of the sponsors to effectively mobilize beneficiaries is not fully proven. The project would,
therefore, provide for the services of advisors in outreach activities to reinforce FDFP's capacity to assist
sponsors in their functions. Concerning quality, FDFP currently assesses the credentials of training
providers who wish to provide training services. Some 125 are currently on a continuously updated list
of pre-qualified firms. FDFP also collects information on public sector training providers and uses it as
a quality control device. While apparently satisfactory at present, the range of specialties covered is
relatively limited. As demand grows, and as the range of training proposals increases, there is a risk that
FDFP's capacity to verify the quality of trainers will decrease. This is particularly true when greater
attention to the value of training for women is concerned. To mitigate against this risk, the project will
provide for periodic consultations on training quality. This will be monitored as a regular part of project
implementation. Finally, given the past procurement arrangements described in para. 31, there is a risk
of misuse of funds and conflict of interest between sponsors, trainees and training institutions. To limit
this risk the project (i) will stress procurement arrangements which introduce greater competition and
transparency in the selection of training providers, and (ii) increases the capacity of FDFP to monitor and
evaluate training activities.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
88.    Prior to negotiations, the following documents were submitted by the Government to IDA:
(a)       the revised Draft Operations Manual along with the complete set of annexes (para. 76);
(b)       the 1994 budget of FDFP as approved by its Management Committee (para. 74);
(c)       the audit report of FNR's accounts (which preceded FDFP) (para. 74);
(d)       a detailed four-year program and schedule of activities, and performance criteria for the
Observatoire (para. 78);
(e)       draft Terms of Reference for technical assistance financed by the Project [para. 65(c)(i)];
and
(f)       the updated list of pre-qualified training firms subdivided on the basis of areas of
expertise. [para. 65(d)(ii)]



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  33
89. In addition, during negotiations. the Government gave the following assurances:
(a)       submit quarterly progress reports on the project activities (para. 79);
(b)       organize a joint Annual Review of project implementation no later than January 31 of
each year (para. 79);
(c)       submit annual audit reports of the project's accounts by March 31 of each year and semi-
annual audit reports of the SOEs by April 30 and October 30 of each year (para. 72);
(d)       submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months after the Closing
Date (para. 79);
(e)       continue to make available to FDFP the proceeds of the CVT and Apprenticeship taxes
until completion of the project (para. 74);
(f)       submit to IDA for its approval any proposal to modify FDFP's tripartite management
system during project implementation (para. 74);
(g)       carry out a mid-term review of progress made in implementing the Project no later than
October 1996 (para. 79); and
(h)       contract independent auditors for the auditing of AGEPE's and FDFP's respective
accounts throughout the project (para. 72);
90. The conditions for Credit Effectiveness are:
(a)       the establishment of an Outreach and Promotion service in FDFP by Decree (para. 55);
(b)       the assignment of qualified staff in adequate numbers to FDFP's Training Outreach and
Promotion service (para. 77);
(c)       the transmittal of the activity program and a set of performance criteria for the FDFP's
Outreach and Promotion service (para. 77);
(d)       the signature of a contract or contracts by FDFP and AGEPE with independent auditors
for the auditing of FDFP's and AGEPE's accounts (para. 72);
(e)       the adoption by the FDFP's Management Committee, of an operations manual ensuring
the implementation of FDFP's activities and acceptable to the Association (para. 76);
(f)       the reception by the Association of an opinion satisfactory to the Association of auditors
acceptable to the Association, confirming that FDFP is and will not be liable for any
past, present or future liabilities incurred by any of the Borrower's agencies involved or
previously involved in vocational training and in particular FNR and ONFP (para. 74);
(g)       the reception by the Association of the FDFP's 1993 fiscal year audit report (para. 74);



COTE D'IVOIRE: Labor Force Training Support Project - Staff Appraisal Report  34
(h)       the execution of the financing agreement between the Government and FDFP for making
available to FDFP the relevant amounts of the proceeds of the Credit for the
implementation of the activities to be carried out by the latter (para. 74); and
(i)      the assignment of qualified staff in adequate numbers to the Observatoire de I 'Emploi of
AGEPE (para. 79).
91.    Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a credit of SDR
12.1 million (US$ 17.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of CMte d'Ivoire on standard IDA terms, with
40 years maturity.



Annex I
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
DescriDtion of the Formal TVET System
The formal TVET system in C6te d'Ivoire comprises six types of institutions. The
public institutions are described below; there is also an important number of private institutes,
enrolling as many students as the public ones which provide mostly commercial TVET:
Institutions training for mid-level skilled jobs: These are the (i) Vocational Training Centers
(CFP) which include 16 Vocational Training Centers per se, 2 Technical Schools (CET), 3
Female Technical Schools (CETF), all recruiting, after examination, 8th grade students, and
granting in three years a Vocational Competency Certificate (CAP); and (ii) 2 Technical and
Commercial Schools (CETC) which recruit 10th grade students, and grant in two years a
Vocational Studies Degree (BEP). These schools enroll altogether about 3100 students, and
graduate about 1000 people per year.!' In addition to these first two types of schools, the
Artisanal Training Center (CFA, 5 in total) and one Female Technical Center (CTF) train in
two years students having completed 6th grade, and deliver a Vocational Qualification
Certificate (CQP). Every year, about 180 students graduate from these centers.
Institutions training for supervisory industrial and tertiary technical iobs: These are the 7
Vocational Schools (Lycees Professionnels) which recruit 10th grade students and deliver in
three years a Technical Degree (BT). They graduate 500 students per year.
Institutions training for higher technical education: These are the 3 Technical Schools (Lycees
Techniques) located in Abidjan and Bouake, and grant in three years the Baccalaureat in
technical, commercial, and industrial fields. About 600 students graduate per year from these
three schools.
Institutions training for high-level technical jobs: These are the higher education institutions
which grant, in 2 years, a Dipl6me Universitaire de Technologies (DUT) and in 5 years, an
Engineer Degree to selected high school graduates; the fields covered include tertiary and
industrial degrees such as Industrial Engineering, Business, Agricultural Engineering, and
Civil Engineering.
Technical Teacher Training Institutions: These institutions provide pre-service and in-service
training for vocational and technical schools.
In-service Training Centers (CFPC, ex-CPP): There are 7 such centers, which provide mainly
in-service training (although about 25% of the enrollment is pre-service), primarily in
industrial areas. Total enrollment is about 1500 students.
Students graduate in the following specialized fields: Woodworking, Masonry, Construction, Auto-mechanic, Electro-
mechanic, General Mechanics, Plumbing, Sewing, Social Work, Secretary, Accounting, etc.






EVOLU'TION OF KEY DENIOCRAPIIIC AND EMPL.OYMENT INDICATORS (1975-1992)
-Tn,.  1Iij             670' 000    100,0%      0,6                             3,3~T1810    9 407 000  'i-6 T          11 217 0(8   *TNT:IT     3,11    12 050 00      100
IL..1,.)       4 ~~~563 W00   409.8                0 000    61,3%              5 357 OM       6.        -1,9   5789000(X      52.5%      11      61700           0%
-  rIuji         _      _      _~~-W 32        _ _4 T.11                                         %      53.6    5 3201X WO               56-  -TMWT  U                    _7    W
- Ivuir.,...     S~ 230 000    78.0%     T       6     -100 000  -76,3V  30.0    7 055 000    75.0%      3.2     8 260 000      73.7 %                            0I0%
-Nuji ivujriani       I 47000      219    -33    -1 9900000   -TTW            4.3    235200         4.0       : -   2 951 000          T        -00
Occupied Putpulatini.    2 485 0    100,0%     4                     000         F      6000700 3,5                    4 313000      100,0  - 1  4TT       20(80 M     6(1.0%-
*Agriculture          I 900000- -76.5%       -g   -       -4      -72.4%W   -TT   -YT3IT7          7TW        3.1     2 64 0(XX)    68,7 i                 5(80      '~
Modern Sector    -74WI    lTr"                                                                                     -  -NTM*'J ___    inr      F  10-fl~                   W ___    __
* nfurnul Sector       24500        9,9%     1-0    .43 0000   --I376%9   -1 1.1      67-8000      18,7%      7.3       964 000      22.4%      6.3     109001f)0      23.6%
Unermployed          ----0F .                                                'i0 00     %I0 T                           280Ooo'F    "'M-~R"
Uiseii.ploynseni Rates    2.73.                                                           4.7                             6,1                               6.7
NOTES: (i) Perceintage in (he Distribution column may no,u 0IU. due to rou   Ii:
('0 AGR = Five-Ycar Annual Growth Rate.
SOURCE:            Minisitre de 1'eniplot ci dc la fonction publique. Direction de I'cmploa i et dc a r8glenmentation du travail  Annuairc statisoique du travail 1992 (mat 1993).
Sructure of Epoyment, Lbr D          an anSplAy (Percentage)
Slixiicture of Empluylinent                         F3        15       12       12        12       nd       nd        Id          t
FDIreacors                                          1.        .         .        ,        .2       nd       n          d       td        1,5      1.5     1,7    1-.5 T       1.4      -I,5     n d.
IIligh L.evel Professionals                         2                   3 .3F                     WF  ~ 3i3             F .IfiiT        T'F      TW-r             -TW       --TT    --T    -;-n-1T
* Miaitrise -                                       2,8      2.9       3,9      4.9      6,0       n.d      n.d      Itid      iid       8.4      8.7      9.6      10,1      9,5      11,6     nd.
Others                                              93,6     93. 1    9.          T      8. -               i          W       i7        3       1S        84d,3 d                   -    T 2   ijT*-
Total                                               10       I0        I0       10        100      n.d      n.d      ntd       n.d       100      T00      10        100      10        to  - ~
Labor  Supply                                     ______                                                                               ______   ______             ______
hIlgh-Level l"rofessionials                         ,s4d      n d       i.d d        n.d  n.d                n.d       1,3      1,5       1.4      1,       1.        1.4      1,5       1,7     2.
* MaIiri~~~~~~~~~e . ~~~II d                    n.d       nd       n.d      n.d      T         iF ad    5,5       4,1      5,)       .1        .        5.7      5,7     6?F       67
Others                                              ii d            ~ n          T U-     n-a               iiW-(r                                                                            - W. __TS    JV  __ 
OQ z
TotAl                                               n d      n.d       n.d      n d       n.d      n.d      n.d       100      100       100      1(8)     I0        100Ior   100       100      100     (1 r
labor Deiiaiid
Iligi, leCVel Prolessiu)lisal                       ITTF     n.d~    nT-a   --n-F        3:TT      6,53     7T,4     5,   --VT7           .T     -4.7      5.        3T       S. I                       0*3~~
* Nl.IAmw                                           ii.d     wisl      n.d     isd       12,7   ,iT3       11,45     13.8      13.8     25,1     14.5      9.1      6.4       77       4,1      1
SOURCE- Arnnuaire statistique du traal  92                                                                                   ___    ___    ___                               ___






Annex III
Page I of 5
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
VOCATIONAL TRAINING DEVELOPMENT FUND (FDFP)
OPERATIONS MANUAL
MANUEL D'OPERATIONS
SOMMAIRE
AVANT-PROPOS                                                                          2
TERMINOLOGIE                                                                          3
INTRODUCTION                                                                          9
Premiere partie: ORGANISATION DU FDFP
CHAPITRE I: GENERALITES
1. Missions, Objectifs et Caracteristiques                                           12
1. 1: Mission et objectifs
1.2: Caracteristiques
CHAPITRE II: FONCTIONNEMENT DU FDFP
1. Le Comite de Gestion                                                              16
1.1: Sa composition
1.2: Ses attributions
1.3: Ses reunions
1.4: Ses prises de decision, proces-verbaux;
Rapport sur le fonctionnement du FDFP
2. Le Secretariat General                                                            17
2.1: Ses attributions
2.2: Son organisation
2.3: Son personnel



Annex III
Page 2 of 5
Deuxieme pardie: MODALITES ET TYPES D'INTERVENTION
CHAPITRE III: MODALITES D'INTERVENTION
1. Criteres d'intervention                                                            21
1. 1: Les criteres generaux
1.2: Les criteres specifiques
1.2. 1: L'habilitation
1 .2.2: La nature des actions
1.2.3: Le r6le des promoteurs et des operateurs
1.2.4: Les conventions et passation des marches
2. Types d'intervention                                                               22
2.1: L'instruction technique
2.2: L'agrement
CHAPITRE IV: LES PLANS DE FORMATION
1. La presentation d'un plan de formation                                             24
1 .1: Les formations eligibles
1.2: Les actions soumises a dispositions particulieres
1.3: L'e1aboration d'un plan de formation
2. Le financement d'un plan de formation par le FDFP                                  26
2.1: Le dossier
2.2: Le traitement du plan de formation
CHAPITRE V: LES PROJETS DE FORMATION
1. Les objectifs des projets collectifs                                               33
1.1: Les objectifs generaux
1.2: Les objectifs specifiques
2: L'elaboration du projet collectif                                                  36
2.1: Les Promoteurs et Operateurs
2.2: Les Stagiaires/Beneficiaires
3. Le traitement du projet: de la r6ception a l'Agrement                              40
3. 1: L'analyse du projet
3.2: L'agrement du projet
4. La mise en oeuvre du projet                                                        41
5. Le suivi, 1'evaluation, la liquidation du projet                                   42



Annex III
Page 3 of 5
CHAPITRE VI: LES ACTIONS A DEVELOPPER DANS LE CADRE DES NOUVELLES
ACTIVITES
1. L'information et la sensibilisation                                               43
1. 1: Les objectifs et messages
1.2: Les cibles
1.3: Les modalites et supports
2. La formation, le conseil et les etudes pour 1'e1aboration du projet de formation   44
CHAPITRE VII: LES PROJETS ATTENDUS ET LEURS PARTENAIRES DANS LE CADRE
DES NOUVELLES ORIENTATIONS



Annex [i1
Page 4 of 5
AVANT-PROPOS
Le present document est un manuel d'Operations destines aux Promoteurs et Operateurs de
formation ainsi qu'a tout autre partenaire actuel ou potentiel du FDFP.
II a pour objet:
-      de presenter les procedures du Fonds
-      de decrire ses nouvelles initiatives en direction des publics les moins  touches par
sa vocation initiale
11 se propose d'etre un "mode d'emploi" du FDFP en vue de facilitier l'e1aboration l'accueil
d'un nombre important de projets de formation.
TERMINOLOGIE
FDFP                         Fonds de Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle
ONG                          Organisation non-gouvernementale
Promoteur de projet          Institution privee ou publique, groupement professionnel ou ONG qui
prend l'initiative et la responsabilite de faire aboutir un projet
collectif ou d'interet general.
Le promoteur garantit l'interet general du  projet, son  bon
deroulement, ainsi que son impact suivant des criteres definis par le
FDFP et d'un common accord.
Operateur de formation       organisation privee ou publique, habilitee (organisation privee) ou
reconnue (organisation publique) par le FDFP pour executer un
projet de formation.
L'operateur est selectionne par le promoteur (projets collectifs) ou
par l'entreprise (plan de formation).
Stagiaires/B6n6ficiaires     Public qui suit une formation dans le cadre d'un projet finance par
le FDFP.
Projet collectif             Projet de formation regroupant un public ayant les memes besoins de
formation. Le projet est totalement finance par le FDFP ou en
association avec d'autres bailleurs de fonds.
Les beneficiaires sont aussi bien des salaries des entreprises
cotisantes que des individus ou des groupes non-cotisants.
Plans de formation           Prevision d'actions de formation etablie par l'entreprise sur une
periode de son choix.
Le plan de formation est finance par l'entreprise sur la part de
cotisation qu'elle conserve et a titre de financement complementaire.



Annex m
Page 5 of 5
Types de formation pour l'execution d'un plan de formation:
- interne            Formation executee pour les salaries d'une meme entreprise par un
des salaries de cette entreprise
- intra              Formation executee pour des salaries d'une meme entreprise par un
intervenant exterieur a 1'entreprise
- inter              Formation regroupant les salaries de plusieurs entreprises
- etranger           Formation ex6cutee hors CMte d'lvoire
Bailleur de fonds           Institution nationale ou internationale, mettant des fonds a la
disposition du FDFP pour financer des projets
Habilitation                Agr6ment octroye par le FDFP a une institution privee operatrice de
formation pour exercer dans un (des) domaine(s) de formation
particulier(s) finance(s) par celui-ci.
Cet agrement est delivre pour une periode de un an selon des criteres
specifiques (voir en annexes).
Comit6 de gestion           Instance de decision du FDFP. II regroupe les pouvoirs publics, les
employeurs et les travailleurs.
Projet agree                Projet pour lequel le FDFP a pris une decision favorable de
financement.
Contractant                 FDFP, designe ainsi dans les conventions d'execution qui le lient aux
operateurs et aux promoteurs de formation
Co-contractant              Promoteurs et operateurs de formation designes ainsi dans les
conventions d'execution qui les lient au FDFP
Suivi                       Ensemble d'actions d'accompagnement de l'execution des projets de
formation en vue d'assurer leur bon deroulement.
Contr6le                    II est dans la logique du suivi.  Le contr6le vise & verifier la
conformite du d6roulement des projets de formation par rapport a la
fiche d'agrement.
Groupe de pilotage          Le groupe de pilotage intervient des I'agrement des projets collectifs.
II est compos6 du FDFP, de l'Operateur et du Promoteur. Sa
fonction est d'identifier les problemes liUs a l'execution des projets
et a mettre en oeuvre les solutions.
Evaluation                  C'est le bilan partiel ou complet du projet qui etablit les rapports
entre les realisations et les pr6visions.  Le produit est un avis
technique soumis aux instances de decision du FDFP, fonde sur
l'avis des promoteurs. Elle decide du sort des projets.
Avance de demarrage         Accompte de 20% pay6 a l'operateur afin de demarrer le projet.
L-)






Annex IV
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
OBSERVATOIRE DE L'EMPLOI, DES METIERS ET DE LA FORMATION (OEMF)
WORKPLAN OF THE OBSERVATOIRE
PLAN DE TRAVAIL DE L'OBSERVATOIRE
Dispositions G1n6rales
1.    L'objectif principal de l'OEMF est de mettre en place un processus d'information et d'analyse
permanent sur la situation et 1'evolution du marche de l'emploi, permettant la formulation, la mise
en oeuvre et le suivi d'une politique concertee et integree de l'emploi ainsi que l'identification de
mesures d'accompagnement pour les investissements en formation.
2.     A ce titre, l'OEMF est charge de:
(i) constituer et analyser une base de donnees existantes relative a l'emploi, au metier, au
chomage et a la formation;
(ii) realiser des etudes ponctuelles visant une meilleure adequation emploi-formation, i.e.,
* prospection du marche de l'emploi aupres des entreprises;
* evaluation de l'impact de la formation sur la productivite des entreprises;
* suivi qualitatif de la pertinence de la formation pour les petites et moyennes
entreprises, surtout celles gerees par les femmes;
* identification de mesures d'accompagnement pour renforcer l'impact des activites de
formation, y inclus pour les entreprises gerees par les femmes;
* etudes sur les entreprises au niveau regional permettant de degager un referentiel sur les
regions (i.e., portrait de la main d'oeuvre par metier et capacite de formation; analyse et
classification des emplois par filiere) et de definir une nouvelle orientation en formation pour
les secteurs porteurs;
* etudes sur l'impact de la formation des programmes du FDFP sur l'evolution de la
productivite de la population active (public cible privilegie);
* rechercher en liaison avec le Ministere charge de l'Economie des Finances du financement
pour conduire, voire souscontracter, toutes actions de recherche et analyse politique visant
a assurer une meilleure adequation emploi-formation;
* mettre a la disposition des autorit6s gouvernementales, et aussi a toutes les parties
concernees (i.e., patronat, ministeres techniques), une base d'information fiable et mise a
jour;
* realiser et diffuser toute documentation sur l'emploi et la formation et les resultats des
6tudes et des enquetes;



Annex IV
Page 2 of 3
D6veloppement du Programme d'Activit&s
3.     La composante Observatoire (OEMF) permettra, grace a une contribution additionnelle de
l'etat aux ressources de 1'AGEPE, le demarrage des activites de l'observatoire et le renforcement de
ses moyens et competences. L'objectif principal de l'OEMF est de mettre en place un processus
d'information et d'analyse permanent sur la situation et l'evolution du march6 de l'emploi, permettant
la formulation, la mise en oeuvre et le suivi d'une politique concert&e et integree de l'emploi. Dans
ce sens, les activites de l'OEMF permettront une meilleure adequation formation-emploi, ainsi que
l'identification d'autres mesures pour renforcer les activites de formation, telles des etudes ponctuelles
sur les entreprises des secteurs porteurs, permettant par exemple de degager un referentiel sur les
emplois par filiere, la main d'oeuvre par metier et la capacite de formation locale.
4.     La composante sera executee par 1'AGEPE. La mise en place progressive d'un processus
d'information et d'analyse permanent sur la situation et l'evolution du marche de l'emploi, n6cessite
le renforcement de la capacite institutionnelle de l'observatoire au sein de I'AGEPE.  Le
developpement et l'execution du programme d'activites propose sera appuye dans le cadre du projet
par le Bureau International du Travail (BIT) sous forme de conseil et formation du personnel.
5.     Les grandes lignes d'un programme d'activites de l'Observatoire sont les suivantes (les
d6tails, y compris les couits, seront 6labores par AGEPE et seront joints en annexe du rapport
d'evaluation): Etant donn6e l'existence de ressources humaines et materielles et de bases de donnees
importantes et insuffisamment exploit6es dans le pays, AGEPE va accorder la priorit6 aux activites
de recensement et d'exploitation des ressources existantes. En particulier, I'AGEPE va (i) recruter
des cadres ayant une longue experience dans la collecte et le traitement des donnees sur l'emploi en
Cote d'Ivoire pour occuper les postes cles des services de l'Observatoire; (ii) associer de facon
ponctuelle a ses activites, soit en tant que personnes ressources ou en tant que conseillers, les cadres
ivoiriens ayant rempli auparavant des missions similaires aux taches dans lesquelles elle s'engagera;
et (iii) etablir des relations de travail suivies avec les autres services de l'6tat (par exemple l'INS et
la CNPS) ainsi que les organisations non-etatiques (par exemple les chambres consulaires, les
syndicats et les ONG), disposant d'informations statistiques utiles a l'analyse de l'emploi et du
marche du travail.
6.     Les recherches de l'Observatoire seront organisees selon une approche methodologique de
recherche-action, en vue d'identifier un nombre de sujets cl6s pour guider les actions et l'evolution
du secteur de formation/emploi. II s'agira d'une vraie observation et d'un dialogue continue sur ces
themes. Les resultats deviendront moins des conclusions que d'el6ments d'un plan d'action n6gocie.
L'Observatoire devra (i) s'associer avec l'universite et embaucher des etudiants comme chercheurs-
assistants, permettant une formation sur le tas pour eux; (ii) creer des cellules de reflexion pour
chaque theme en impliquant des partenaires indiques (i.e., les corps de metiers); (iii) identifier des
sujets de reflexion et organiser des etudes en collaboration directe avec tous les partenaires concernes
(i.e., entreprises et patronit); et (iv) identifier les etudes et travaux ponctuels a developper, elaborant
les objectifs ainsi que la strategie de diffusion pour le rapport.
7.     L'enveloppe budgetaire de la composante Observatoire serait de 2,5 millions de dollars US.
Elle sera executee sur une periode de quatre ans et sera co-financee par les fonds provenant de l'IDA
et du budget de l'etat et beneficiera d'un appui technique du BIT. Elle beneficiera egalement d'un
appui du Secretariat Permanent du Comite Interministeriel des Operations du PVRH qui dispose d'une
expertise en suivi de transfert de capitaux.



Annex IV
Page 3 of 3
Mise en Oeuvre de l'Observatoire
1994/95      1995/96       1996/97      1997/98
Developpement
Institutionnel
recrutement                x            x             x             x
du personnel a
partir d'expertise
existante et des
postes cles pour           x
la programmation
formation de               x            x             x             x
personnels
Programme
d' Activites
etudes contractees         x             x            x             x
bulletin d'information     x            x             x             x
collection/analyse des
donnees existantes         x      x            x             x      x
monographies sur l'emploi         x     x      x      x      x      x
sondages/enquetes                 x                   x                    x
monographies sur metiers          x     x      x      x      x
EIements d'Aptui
(TOR - qualification/
profil des conseillers)
conception du programme    x      x      x
conseil execution du programme    x      x     x      x      x
Ressources necessaires
installation de bureaux    x      x
informatisation des bureaux   x   x
centre de documentation           x      x     x      x      x      x      x
appui informatique         x      x      x     x      x      x      x      x      x
deplacements informatique    x    x      x     x      x      x      x      x
recensement regulier              x            x             x             x
appui informaticien               x            x             x             x
enqueteurs                        x            x             x            -x
deplacements                      x            x             x             x






Annex V
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
THE INFORMAL SECTOR -- DIMENSIONS, ISSUES AND OPPORTUNITIES
The Informal Sector
1.           Recent studies of poverty and of the labor force in C6te d'Ivoire indicate an increase
in informal sector participation (Grootaert, 1993, Tzannatos, 1994). There are multiple reasons for
this growth in the informal sector, including lay-offs in the formal sector due to recession and public
sector down-sizing. In the 1980s, modern sector employment fell by 14%, employment in the
informal sector more than doubled, and unemployment tripled. In 1980, the informal sector was
smaller than the modern sector, but by 1992 it had became almost three times the size of the modern
sector and now accounts for three-quarters of urban employment (see Grootaert, 1993, Table 10).
2.           Additional studies of both the informal or artisanal sector and formal sector SMEs
indicate considerable growth rates, especially among micro and small enterprises, employing from
zero to five or at most 10 employees, in both the informal and formal sectors (Manso, 1993, MDP1,
1994, MPME, 1994 personal communication). Further studies are already planned or underway, in
the context of preparation of MDP1, wrap-up of PDU3, and preparation of the PSD project. More
is known about the artisanal sector in Abidjan than elsewhere, especially in rural zones, but the
Chambre Nationale des Metiers has carried out inventories and assessments in all secondary cities in
connection with its organizational activities.
Oreanizational Context
3.           A key feature of the informal sector is usually seen a perceived lack of structure.
There are now, however, a number of organizations in C6te d'Ivoire that group together types of
informal sector businesses by sub-sector, such as the Chambres de Metiers, by size with formal sector
firms of the same size, such as the Mouvement des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises, or other criteria.
However, at best these groups represent only the urban firms, and in most cases, probably do not
represent those at the lowest end of the scale. Firms owned and operated by women are members
of all of these organizations, but it also appears that the considerable proportion of women operating
in the informal sector are not represented by any organization. For example, under PDU3, the search
for informal-sector micro and SME's in need of credit, including those owned and operated by
women, was carried out through NGOs whose primary function and target populations related to
other factors.



Annex V
Page 2 of 7
NGO Capacitv and the Informal Sector
4.            Aside from the larger organizations mentioned above, a number of other, smaller
NGOs are getting involved in providing credit services, and some institutional strengthening to
informal sector operators. The major assumption of these smaller NGOs and their financing agencies
has been that lack of credit for operating capital is the major constraint to firm success in the informal
(and the formal SME) sector. This assumption may not, in fact, be correct, and more intensive
studies of particular sub-sectors should be carried out to see what other constraints are confronted by
different types of firms. Studies of this type would probably confirm that among these constraints
are illiteracy and innumeracy of owner/operators, lack of management skills, market identification
and development skills, and access to technology, including transport. To date, no NGO operating
in C6te d'lvoire is organized to provide coherent programs in support of this kind of skill
development, although both the Chambre Nationale des Metiers and the MPME have generated
proposals for institutional support of this kind, to be provided through consultation and through
training.
5.            Experience from the PDU3 informal sector credit pilot activity indicates that NGOs
without prior experience in lending, and that are not provided with additional institutional support,
have difficulty in reaching target firms, in loan recovery, and in absorbing the indirect costs of the
program. Their ability to on-lend to other, smaller NGO's is thus hampered, as is their ability to
target effectively and carry out followup with NGO and firm clients (see PDU3, 1993).
6.            Overall NGO capacity in C6te d'lvoire is still quite limited (Fox, 1993 YC report),
and the ability of NGOs to organize and register has until recently been severely constrained unless
they were clearly religious in nature. Interviews carried out with a representative sample of non-
religious NGOs during the appraisal mission yielded the following main findings: 1) It is still difficult
to become registered with the government, and there is still a keen suspicion that NGOs, including
those founded by and for women, are likely to engage in political activities and are therefore suspect.
2) Most NGOs are based in Abidjan, and coverage of secondary cities and rural areas is particularly
weak (see Table Annex 7). 3) Some NGOs, such as CIFAD, the Club des Dix and MIFED do have
membership sections among the poor, and in rural areas, but their institutional capacity is very
limited, even at the center. 4) While there is some acceptance that an apex organization can be
useful, there are still tensions among those NGOs that belong to the presently accepted one,
COGNACI, and a competitor organization, CONACI, has fallen on hard times. Most of those
interviewed believe that it is still too early to emphasize NGO coordination if this is likely to be at
the expense of expansion of the NGO sector as a whole, and generation of new organizations.
7.            FDFP has already included the expatriate-run and some of the older NGOs on its list
of accredited training organizations. However, it will need to make a concerted effort in its outreach
program to contact those indigenous NGOs that can credibly act as training promoters, operators and
beneficiaries, and to assess their capacity to play each of these potential roles. This process can itself
go some way toward improving NGO capacity in Cote d'Ivoire which would be an added project
benefit (see performance indicators). NGO participation would be encouraged for all types of training
run by the Outreach and Formation Initiale et Apprentissage Services, and should not be limited to
programs targeted to women.



Annex V
Page 3 of 7
Women's Participation and Training Needs
8.           The LFTS Project targets women among its main anticipated beneficiaries (see
performance indicators), both through the Outreach component, and through other project
components. In 1990, the Ministry of Employment and the Civil Service estimated that women
constituted 62.9% of the informal sector labor force (PDU3, 1993). Other estimates are that 70%
or more of informal sector entrepreneurs are women, if all those who are owner-operators without
other employees are included. To some extent, existing information indicates that women operators
in the informal sector encounter the same constraints as men, some of which are mentioned in para
(d) above. However, a recent study of women's employment in Abidjan (Manso, 1993) shows that
women tend to cluster in about 20 key types of activities, most of which are commercial and service
oriented. The average monthly income of operators in the 20 main activity groups, their knowledge
of relevant legal rights and obligations, and their major financial problems, of which credit is only
one, are shown in Tables 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 respectively. Studies of women's training programs,
women's economic activities in rural areas and of functional literacy among women were also carried
out in the same series, funded by the RCI WID project, and can be made available to FDFP and the
Observatoire.
9.    A variety of studies will be funded under this project, as indicated in the text and other
annexes. A start-up study to design and launch the Outreach and Support Service will be funded
under a PPF over a period of three months, by a team of national and expatriate consultants. The
outputs of this study will include the gender outreach plan that was initially a condition of negotiation,
as well as related media campaigns to reach other target populations. To the extent possible, these
studies should not cover the same ground as those already planned or carried out, and should be
oriented toward those constraints encountered by informal sector operators that are not already being
met under other programs and that are best addressed by training broadly defined. This outcome will
be facilitated by a literature review being carried out under the RCI WID Project (Cr. 3251-RCI),
as well as analyses of the 1992 Priority Survey data being carried out under the PAGE (Cr.2503-
RCI). During the appraisal, it was agreed with the FDFP Director that the initial informal sector
target group study might be pre-financed by FDFP before negotiations, so that the Outreach Service
could be set up with its target population well-understood. The project budget includes funds for
studies, evaluation, and for technical assistance to help build FDFP's outreach capacity.
10.   Although they represent close to 50% of Ivorians and are increasingly represented in
all sectors of activity, women remain the poorest and most vulnerable segment of the
population. Their state of poverty has often been associated with lack of training. In both
urban and rural zones, the identification of women's training needs and subsequent program
design would lead to solutions appropriate to each sector.
a.    In rural zones, unstable living conditions prevail, making domestic tasks quite
onerous. Primary health care is difficult to obtain, the mortality rate is boosted by the AIDS
pandemic, women are traditionally denied access to the land, methods of transforming
commodities into finished products are obsolete, and illiteracy results in women's ignorance
of their rights. Instruction in literacy, primary health care, AIDS awareness, and family
planning could be used to remedy the situation, along with training in small-operations
management, equipment and machine maintenance, creation and management of women-run
organizations, and cultivation of plots of land (research into appropriate markets would be
useful. In addition, undertakings such as increasing awareness and understanding of



Annex V
Page 4 of 7
marriage, inheritance, and land allocation laws and extensive operations research and
development ( e.g. orchards, food production) could produce very positive results.
b.     Such training as described above is also needed in urban zones, with some adaptation
to the different expectations of the various socio-professional categories. These are best
described by sector.
b. 1    Seventy percent of the active female population is in the informal sector, which is a
veritable job and revenue reservoir. The level of efficiency of the sector is dragged down by
the relatively low level of education, an absence of knowledge of economics and management,
a lack of team spirit, and insufficient training within the sector. The training needs associated
with this sector include training in literacy, management, management training, machine and
equipment maintenance, organizational skills, marketing, basic accounting (balance sheets,
cost price), market research, applied economics, teamwork, and skills upgrading. This
training could be achieved by various methods, such as periodic sessions, evening courses,
explanatory articles, local newspapers, public notices, and audiovisual montages.
b.2   In the formal sector, 23,042 of 103,610 civil servants are women. Most women
having pursued higher education leave the civil service for higher-paid private sector
employment. In general, it seems that female civil servants are overqualified for their
positions; many are hired for civil-service positions unrelated to their training or experience.
It is important to provide either specific training, skills upgrading, or retraining in order to
avoid situations where women are stuck at a certain level until retirement.
b.3    The private sector employs few women. A program could be designed that would
improve women's performance in this sector by offering seminars in human relations,
decision-making, and organizational and communications skills, as well as specialized sessions
focusing on areas relevant to particular disciplines.



Annex V
Page 5 of 7
Table 5.1   Distribution by Professional Activity and Monthly Income Bracket
(in thousands)
10   20   30   40   50   60   70   80   90   100  200  300  500
ACTIVITY                   19   29    39   49   59   69   79   89   99   200  300  400  plus  Tot,l   %
1   Dressmaking                 35    54    26    13   18   10    7    10    2    15    6          2     2    200    14,67
2   Hairdressing                13   26    27    5       8     1    1    4       2     3    0      0     0    90       6,60
3   Hair braiding                3    7    6       2    4      1    0      1     1    0      0     0     0    25       1,83
4   Cloth sales                  I    10    8    47    28    16   15    8    l l   22    11   23    18   218    15,99
5   Agricultural products sales    34   34    64    12    9    2     1    3      1    4      5    _      0    170    12,47
6   Fish sales                  27    33   22    14   10    8    6         3    5      6     1     1    0    136       9,98
7   Pork sales                   0     8    7    2       2     2    0    0       0     0     0     0     0    21       1,54
8   Palm wine sales              5     2     l    2    0       0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0    10      0,73
9   Other beverage sales         3     1    3      1    2    0    0        0     0     0     0          0             0,73
10  Women's shoe and handbag   6    1    13    0         1     l    0     0      1     1    0      1    0    35       2,57
sales
11  Children's clothing sales   10   15   15   15    6        3    0    0       0      1    0     0      0    65      4,77
12  Grilled food sales          33    15    4      1    0     0    0      0      l    0          0          54      3,96
13  Cheap goods sales           _     3    4      0     0    0    0       0     0     2     0     0      0    20      1,47
14  Kitchen utensil sales       1 1    8    5     3    4      4     0    4       1    0     0    0       0    40      2,93
15  Restaurant work             9     9    4       1    0     0    0      0    0       1    0      1    0    25       1,83
16  Work in the bush            13    8    4      3    O      0      F     F    0      1    0      1 O        33      2,42
17  Sales for firms             10   21    24    17   11   11     2       2      1    16    0      3    4    122      8,95
18  Other sales                 2    6      6     1    0    0    0        0     0     0    0      0      0    15      1,10
19  Housecleaning               39    10    2    0      0    0      0     0     0     0    0      0     0    51       3,74
20  Prostitution                 0     2    6      4     3    _      0     0     2     4     1    0      0    23       1,69
TOTAL                      265  283  251   143   106   60  .33    36   28    76   24    33   25   1363   100
19.14 20.76 18.42 10.49 7.78  4.40  2.42  2.64  2.05  5.58  1.76  2.42  1.83  100    %
(1) Justification    33 women systematically refused to declare their monthly income, so that
instead of having 1 396 we only have 1 363.
Source    Land Survey, March, 1993.



Annex V
Page 6 of 7
Table 5.2: Awareness of Legal Precautions-Existence of Contacts
Legal Precauions         Contact wl salawomen 1            Commercial Contacts
ANSWERS
Activity                                 Yes             No           Yes           No             Yes            No
I   Dressmaking                                    2                           20                            2  |            0
2   Hairdressing                                     85             5            85             5             go
3   Hair braiding                                    1(                          25                           25
4   Cloth sales                                     221             0           200            21            201            20
5   Agricultural products sales                     170      0                  100            70            170             0
6   Fish sales                                      136             0           1               06 
7   Pork sales                                       21a                                                    '
8   Palm wine sales                                   2             8             0            10             10             0
9   Other beverage sales                              6             4           7              I              T1
10  Women's shoe and handbag sales                  35                          3 0                           35             0
11  Children's clothing sales                       65              6                                         3 6
12  Griled food sales                               50              4           52              2             50             4
13  Cheap goods sales                    _     _      I 5_                       12_5                                       3
14  Kitchen utensil sales                           40              0           40                           40
15  Restaurant work                                 20 - -                       0             26             26
16  Work in the bush                                30             11             0            41            41              0
17  Sales for firms               j                122 -  --           1- 2- -     100
18  Other sales                                                     7                           8             13
19  Housecleaning                                     -             -             -             -              -             -
20  Prostitution                                     23             0             0            23             23             0
TOTAL                                        16j81                       1088l           257           1294            5
TOTAL (1) and (2)                               145                          145                         1345
93,98   I          6,02                  1           9,115             3E 79
Source: Land Survey, March 1993.



Annex V
Page 7 of 7
Table 5.3: Financial Problems
Credit      Worldng       Bookkeeping
Access       Capital
ACTIVITY                                                            Aid       Aid                  Aid     Merchandise
from     from        Self     from      Taken on
Spouse   Parents               Fiance      Credit
ANSWERS
Yes   No    Yes    No    Yes    No
I    Dressmaking                    56   165      23    18       51    10         46       6T3                 104
2    Hairdressing                   65    25      85       5     75      15        8         43          1       38
3    Hair braiding                   0    25       0      25      0      2!5       5          8          0
4    Cloth sales                   101 1  WO    Tr  -Ti          0      131       45         5( 2* N              17 8S
T    Agricultural products sales   5     17       7      10C   O      47                     5                   62
6    Fish sales                      6   130       0    136       0    136        17         43          7       27       42
7    Pork sales                     21     0      21       0     21       C                   4          1        13
8    Palm wine sales                 0    1I                      0      1 0 02                          2      6
Other beverage sales     C           1D             TIC-            Th -**Th            IC    C    h       -      134
10  Women's shoe and handbag        15    25       0     35       5      30        5         13          1       16
sales
11   Children's clothing sales      25    401      0     65       5      60        7         30          I       27
12   Grilled food sales              0    54j    2                                          I4 0j   4  3  2  T   25
13   Cheap goods sales               0    20       0     20       0      20        0         14         0         6
14   Kitchen utensil sales     T    5    35       15     253      o      40i      13         I l         I       16
11   Restaurant work                76 207                       16 tC   2                   10
16  Work in the bush                     '37       0     41                        4         17                  18
17   Sales for firms                 2   120    103       19      5    117        16         35         4        67
18  6Other sales                j    5j   10       6       9             1!        2          5 
19   Housecleaning            1      5    36   -               -                             44    C              7
P Frostitution                       = 23            0       23   2      0
TOTAL                         326  1070    482    863    301   1044         220       482         5f       477       136
TOTAL (1) and (2)              139           f 4r5           11    4
23,55176,S5 35,84 e    M4,16 9328,.
Source : Land Survey, March 1993.






REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY NGO INVENTORY AND PROFILE - Cote d'Ivoire
Agricull    Eziuerpris   Com Dcv        Health      Prin Ed     Youth     Mgt Assi    Researcii      Environ
Fish fami    Employmi    Appr Tech    Emier Rcl       Pop       Sec Ed    Women's   Tech Assa    Document          NRMS        Rural    Urban              (Credi        Nigi
NGO Name            Animal    Incom gell      nfuriarucs    Soc Wei    AIDS Ed    Voc Ed    Programs    Traminig    Networking    Conseiva    Focus    Focus   Women             Asic     Assi/Trg
Gen.
Mouvernen lInteemaional                                            X                                                                                     X         X          X         X            X
des Femmca D6nocraies
Associasion des Fenmres                                            X                                                                                               X          X                      X
Jurisses
Chlb des Dix                                                        X                                                                                    X         X          X         X            X
Collecuif pour la                                                   X                                                                                    X         X          X          X
Defense des Drois de la
Fenme ea de l Eafani en
COse drlvoire
(CODDEF-Cb)
Araocijon Ivoirinne                                                X                                                                                    X         X          X
pour la Defense des
Droiu des Fannes -
A. .D. F.
Assuane Universelle                                                                                                                                      X         X          X         X
pour be Develoenena -
A.U.D.E.
ESPOIR                                                             X                                                                                     X         X          X         X            x                  D
CIFAD                                    X                          X           X          X           X            X            X                                 X                                                (
AIBEF                                                                           X          X           X            X            X                       X         X          X                      X
s-ih
COCCI                                    X             X                                    X          X                                                           x
US Peacc Corps              X            X                                      X          X                                                  X          X         X



Algraull    Emcrpris     Cwia Dcv      Hleakt       Pram Ed     Youuh      Mgt Asa     Researd       Enviaron
Fish latrn    Em,loynal    Appr Tech    Enmer Re      Pop       Ser Ed    Woamca's   Tec, AsaS       Docunieci     NRMS        Rural    Urbjn                Credio      Mgt
NGO Name            Animal    lacn agea    Infratruac      Soc Wei    AIDS Ed    Voc Ed    Programs    Training    Networking    Conserva    Focus    Focus    Women             hIc.      AsilJTrg
BICE                                                                X           X           X          X                                                           X
LIEPSEC                                                             X           X                                   X            X                       X         X
SIL                                                                 X           X           X           X                        X                        X        X
FEECI (Progtta)                                                     X           X           X          X                         X                       X         X
AFVP                                     X                                                             X            X            X                       X         X           X                     X
ECODEV                                                                          X                      X            X                                              X
Croix Vene                                                                                              X                                      X          X        X
AMCAV                                                  X            X           X                       X           X                         X                    X
ACD                         X            X                          X                                  X                                                 X
N'Days                                   X                          X           X                      X                                                           X
RECI                                                                                                                X            X            X          X
Red Cross-Cl                                                        X           X                      X                                                 x         x          x
Eculogie-CI                                                         X           X                       X                                                X         X
tu 
tD
r'J



Annex VII
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
COMPONENTS/INDICATORS                      1994       1995      1996       1997      1998
FDFP (Training)
- Percent of Resources Allocated
to Training of Priority Groups            15%       20%        25%       30%        30%
(Collective Projects)
- Percent of Total Training Expenditures
Procured by Direct Contracting            95%       75%        65%       50%        30%
FDFP (Outreach Program)
- Participation of Target Groups in Collective
Training Activities                       10%       30%        30%       30%        30%
- Percent of Women Participating           10%        25%       30%        30%       30%
in Collective Training Activities
AGEPE (Observatory --Institution Building)
- Percent Staffing                         50%        80%       100%       100%      100%
(with respect to Targets of Project)
- Procurement of Equipment                 50%        100%
(Percent Completed with respect to
Targets of Project)
- Establishment of Documentation Center
(Percent Completed with respect to        10%       30%        60%       80%        100%
Targets of Project)                                                       .
AGEPE (Observatory -- Survey & Analysis)
- Data Gathering/Collection
(Number of Agreements with Other
Local Agencies for Exchanges of Data)
- Data Collection                          0          1         1          1         1
(Number of Surveys Taken)
-Data Analysis                             0          1         1          1         1
(Number of Publication of Survey Analysis)
- Studies (Number of Publications)          I         5         10         10        10



Annex VII
Page 2 of 5
MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
1.     FDFP has an efficient internal monitoring system operated by each of the existing training services, as
well as a studies and evaluation capacity at the level of the General Secretariat. The latter maintains a database
on all training activities as well as on other FDFP functions. The new Outreach and Support Service will also
have an internal monitoring system, which will include both qualitative and quantitative indicators. Many of
the proposed indicators that will be monitored by this new service are included in Table 8-1, which includes
proposed performance indicators for the FDFP component of the project.
2.      As may be seen from Table 8-1, efficiency and effectiveness of the expanded FDFP operations will be
monitored through data collection on a series of indicators, both qualitative and quantitative. These include data
on the type and size of firms receiving or promoting training, type and number of trainees, variety, duration and
content of training courses, and the like. Most of these indicators are quantifiable, and data can and will be
desegregated by sex for monitoring and evaluation purposes. Some other indicators are more qualitative and
processual, and will require special studies. A baseline study of the target population for the new Outreach and
Support Service will be carried out prior to project effectiveness, and data included in this study will be updated
annually. Additional studies are also anticipated, and will be funded by the project.
3.     Table 8-2 presents a subset of quantitative performance indicators relating to the project as a whole,
including both AGEPE and FDFP components, shown over the project life. Data to measure performance in
terms of these indicators will be gathered as part of the monitoring and evaluation discussed above and in para.
75 of the text.



Annex VII
Page 3 of 5
MONITORING METHODS AND INSTRUMENTS
The tables on the following pages list a number of possible approaches for the assessment
of FDFP activities.
1.     The frequency of the proposed studies and indicators is expressed in the tables as
follows:
T:       Trimestrial
A:        Annual
P:       by Project
The frequencies refer more to data collection than data analysis, allowing a  greater
flexibility in the planning of the studies and evaluations.
2.     The information for each indicator will be from either internal (evaluation forms,
monitoring forms, approval file, etc.) or external (observations,  interviews, documentary
research, etc.) sources.
3.     The methods used for data collection and analysis could be either qualitative  (based on
the values, perceptions, and judgements of project beneficiaries) or quantitative (focusing on
numerical data).
4.     The above-discussed elements allow for the use of the proposed indicators in the following
activities:
-- follow-ups: continual activities whose occurrences coincide with the main stages of
the project or training activity.
-- evaluations: ad hoc activities at the beginning and/or end of a project or activity, in
order to assess its effect.
-- studies: ad hoc activities aiming to deepen or widen the field of observation,
generally within the context of an evaluation.



Annex VII
Page 4 of 5
TABLE 7.1: EXAMPLES OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators              [           Nature          [       Prequency               Data Source
I - Key characteristics of target populations    qualitative    quantitative  ad hoc  continual    interal  external
- level of training (general/technical)
- professional experience              X            X            P                        x            x
- age, gender
2 - Selection criteria of target populations  X                          P                        x            x
3 - Correspondence between beneficiary
proffle and trainiing given               X                         p                        x            x
4 - Training effectiveness
- results/educational objectives       X            X            P                                     x
- results/other objectives
5 - Training efficiency
- product/ process                     X            X            P                                     x
6 - Other impacts of training on
beneficiaries
- their career                         X            X            P                                     X
- their productivity
- product quality
- product diversification
7 - Number of persons trained                                                        A            x
8 - Increase in number of enterprises of
target populations
- by type of activity                               X                        A            X
by sector (formal/informal)
-by size
9 - Increase in proporion of young people
employed by beneficiary enterprises                     X                        A            X
10- Results of Outreach and Support Service
(see 1-8-13)
11- Impact of training on the beneficiary
enterprise (production, turnover,         X            X            A                                     X
diversification, etc.)
12- Increases in:
- plans approved/plans proposed
- plans proposed/ total contributing
enterprises                                       X            A                        X
- projects approved/projects
proposed
- projects proposed / total
contributing enterprises
13- Increase in number of enterprises
participating in training:                               X            A                        X
formal/informal
14- Evolution of accredited training                                    A
personnel (number, specialization,
region, etc.)



Annex VII
Page 5 of 5
TABLE 7.1a: EXAMPLES OF STUDIES (studies, evaluations, follow-ups)
Studies                I          Nature                  Frequency       |       Data Source
I - Studies of requirements in terms of   qualitative   quantitative  ad hoc     continual    internal     external
functional literacy of trainees and women
managers of micro-enterprises and SMEs     X            X            A                                     x
2 - Survey of key characteristics of
informal-sector woman entrepreneurs and    X            X                        A                         X
their probable reactions to training
propositions
3 - Identification of target populations for
Outreach and Support Service (key         X                         A                        X            X
characteristics)
4 - Evaluation of functioning of Outreach
and Support Service                       X            X                        A                         X
5 - Ex post evaluation of training projects   X            X                        PX
6 - Follow-up on the development of women
promoting, giving, and receiving          X             X                       A            X            X
training
7 - Survey of young people participating in
training and apprenticeships                            X                       A            X            X
8 - Identification of number and type of
new or experimental training projects     X             X                       T            X
financed
9 - Directory of accredited training          X            X                        T            X
personnel
10- Survey of training plans and projects     X                                     T            X






Annex Vm
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Action                                1994       1995        1996        1997       1998
Reviews
- Annual Implementation Review Workshop                                    X           X           X          X
- Mid-Term Project Review                                                                 X
- Project Completion Report                                                                                  x
- Audits                                                                   X           X          X          X
Institutional Development
- Staffing FDFP Outreach Program                                X         X
(Including Preparation of TORs)
- Staffing FDFP Training Program                                X         X
(Including Preparation of TORs)
- Staffing AGEPE                                                X         X
(Including Preparation of TORs)
- Procurement and Acquisition of Equipment                      X         X
Training
- Development of Outreach Program                              XXX      XXXXX    XXXXX           XXXX      XXX
- Implementation of Labor Force Training                       XXX      XXXXX    XXXXX           XXXX      XXX
- Training of Staff of Fxecuting Agencies                      XXX      XXXXX    XXXXX           XXXX      XXX
Surveys and Analysis
- Design and Planning                                             X      X            X          X          X
- Survey Preparation                                              X       X            X           X         X
- Survey Implementation                                           X         X            X          X          X
- Information Gathering                                           X    XXXXX        XXXXX    XXXX           XXXX
- Studies and Analysis                                            X      XXXX        XXXX        XXXX    XXXXX






COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cost S'mary
*     I Total
(CFAF  000)                        ($US  '000)           Foreign     Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Loca      Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Genie Ci il - AGEPE                                   25,636.0      9,048.0   34,684.0        14.2       15.6      59.8        26
B. BEMS
1. Equipment
Equipement - FDFP                                 13,641.6      4,547.2   18,188.8        23.5        7.8      31.4        25
Equipement - AGEPE                               IS9 926_9   62,252.6  222,179.4    275.7    107.3    383.1                28          2
Subtotal Equipment                                  173,568.5   66,799.8  240,368.2    299.3    115.2    414.4                 28         2
2. Wobiliers et Materiels
Mobiliers - AGEPE                                 17,193.6   11,395.8   28,589.4          29.6       19.6      49.3         40
3. Vehicules
Vehicules -FDFP                                   35,983.2      9,268.4    45,251.6       62.0       16.0      78.0         20         _
Vehicules - AGEPE                                 4S,936_0   11,832.0   57,768.0          79.2       20.4      99.6         20         1
Subtotal Vehicules                                    81,919.2   21,100.4  103,019.6    141.2           36.4    177.6          20         1
Subtotal 3IENS                                          272,681.3    99,295.9  371,977.3        470.1    171.2    641.3           27          3
C. EVICCX DE SPtCIALISTES
1. Assistance Technique Internationale
Assistance Technique  Int'l - FDFP                49,965.8   31,953.4   81,919.2           86.1      55.1    141.2          39         1
Assistance Technique Int'l - AGEPE               72 135.8  176,096.1  248,231.9    124.4    303.6    428.0                  71         2
Subtotal Assistance Technique Internationals  122,101.6  208,049.5  330,151.1                210.5    358.7    569.2           63          3
2. Assistance Technique National
Assistance Technique Nat'l. - FDFP                86,199.6      1,740.0   87,939.6       148.6        3.0    151.6           2         1
Assistance Technique Nat'l - AGEPE                 5,227.6    3,132.0   58,359.6           95.2       5.4    100.6           5         I
Subtotal Assistance Technique National              141427?_2    4,872,0  146,299.2    243.8             8.4    252.2           3          1
Subtotal   2VICES D  SPIAL.ISTS                         263,528.8  212,921.5  476,450.3         454.4      367.1    821.5         45          4
D. loflIiON
1. romation Population Activ
Formation Population Active -- FDFP              6,728,000   1,682,000  8,410,000 11,600.0  2,900.0 14,500.0               20         78
2. formation a 1letranger
Formation a l'etranger - FDFP                     12,857.4    35,215.3   48,072.7         22.2       60.7      82.9         73
Formation a 1'etranger - AGEPE                    _,183_2    4,628.4         5,811.6       2.0        8.0      10.0         80
Subtotal formation a l'etranger                       14,040.6   39,843.7   53,884.3          24.2      68.7       92.9        74
3. Formation locale
Formation locale - FDFP                            4,818.1             -    4,818.1         8.3         -       8.3          -
Subtotal FORSiTION                                      6,746,859   1,721,844   8,468,702 11,632.5  2,968.7 14,601.2               20        79
E. ETUDES                                               364,240_0  397,880,0  762,120.0         628.0    686.0 1J314.0             52         7
Total Investment Costs                                      7,672,945  2,440,989 10,113,934 13,229.2  4,208.6 17,437.8                 24         94
II. Recurrent Costs
A. COUTS DE FONCTIONNflCNT
1. IIKSETaL SALARI
Incremental Salaries - FDFP                      314,592.0             -  314,592.0      542.4          _    542.4                     3
2. DEPLA IST
Deplacement - FDFP                               172,840.0             -  172,840.0      298.0          -    298.0           -         2
Deplacement - AGEPE                               31,088.0   23,200.0   54,288.0           53.6      40.0      93.6         43         1
Subtotal DPL ITS                                     203,928.0   23,200.0  227,128.0    351.6           40.0    391.6          10          2
3. 'nATETCANa
Maintenance Equipement - FDFP                     11,400.5             -   11,400.5        19.7         -      19.7                    -
Maintenance Vehicules - FDFP                      46,423.2   16,008.0   62,431.2           80.0      27.6    107.6          26         1
Maintenance de Vehicules - AGEPE                  10,492.2      7,830.0   18,322.2         18.1      13.5      31.6         43
Maintenance de Batiments - AGEPE                   3480_0              -    3,480.0         6.0         -       6.0                    -
Subtotal  YNAE1TCI                                    71,795.9   23,838.0   95,633.9         123.8      41.1    164.9          25          1
4. FOUINITURE D8 HUREAIIX
Fourniture de Bureau - FDFP                       20,184.0      6,960.0   27,144.0         34.8      12.0      46.8         26         -
Fourniture de Bureau - AGEPE                       4,663.2      3480_0    8,143.2           8.0       6.0      14.0         43
Subtotal FOURNITURE DR cUREAUX                        24,847.2   10,440.0   35,287.2          42.8      18.0       60.8        30          -
Total Recurrent Costs                                        615,1631   57,478,0  672,641.1  1,060.6             99.1 .1,159 7           9         6
Total RBEIllh  COSTS                                          8,288,108  2,498,467 10,786,575 14,289.8  4,307.7 18,597.5                 23       100
Physical Contingencies                                      68,743.2   47,018.2  115,761.5          118.5      81.1    199.6          41          1
Price Contingencies                                        343L728_5   58,070.7  401,799.2          592.6    100.1    692.8           14         4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           8,700,580  2,603,556 11,304,136 15,001.0  4,488.9 19,489.9                 23       105                                  't7
Wed Jun 01 09:14:43 1994
O  >4



COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Exanditure Accounts by CQOM. Dts - Totala Zooludigf  CeRa.genciee
(USS 1000)
TRAINING,
RETRAINING
AND       TRAINING   LABOR
APPRENTICESHIP OUTREACH   MARKET   REFINANCEMENT
PROGRAM     SUPPORT  MONITORING  DE LVAVANCE   Total
I. InvwatUOOt CoSts
A. Genie Civil - AGEPE                                            -         -       81.2               -     81.2
S. aim
1. Equpemnt
Equipement - FDFP                                          -      39.2           -              _      39.2
Equipament - AG1EPE-                                                 -       494.5-    494.5
subtotal  quipment                                             -     39.2       494.5              -    533.7
2. biliers et Materiels
Mobiliers - ArEPE                                           -        -        62.8                     62.8
3. Vahiculae
Vehicules -FDFP                                                   95.4           -                     95.4
Vehicules - AGEPE                                          -         -       134.10                   134.0
Subtotal Veioaule                                              -     95.4       134.0                    229.4
Subtotal BIs                                                      -    134.6       691.3               -    825.9
C.   JVISC DE IJCCIALIJTOs
1. Assistance Teobniqu- Internationale
Asaistance Technique  Int'l   FDFP                     100.7         -           -           57.0    157.7
Assistance Technique Int'l - AGEPE                          -        -       494.8              -    494.8
Subtotal Assistanae Tehnique Intaruational-               100.7         -       494.8           57.0    652.6
2. Assistance Tschiqum National
Assistance Technique Nat'l. - FDFP                     152.8         -           -           39.0    191.8
Assistance Technique Nat'l - AGEPE                          -        -       131.5              - _   131.5
subtot  Assistance Technique  tatiosal                    152.8         -       131.5           39.0    323.3
Subtotal  VWI4C     De SPECALISTZS                            253.5         -      626.3           96.0    975.9
D. romIaIIO
1. JoartiaD Population Active
Formation Population Active - FDFP                  14,500.0         -           _              - 14,500.0
2. Voratioa   a 1'atranger
Formation a l'etranger - FDFP                          100.2         -           -              -    100.2
Formation a lPetranger - AGEPE                             -         -        12.0              -      12.0
subtotal Sozmaticn a l'trangar                           100.2         -        12.0               -    112.2
3. ForuatioD locale
Formation locale - FDFP                                 11.5         -           -              -      11.5
Subtotal Kr.XIOa                                          14,611.7          -       12.0               - 14,623.7
E. ETUDES                                                     137.9              1 472.4               -  1,610.3
Total Inveotw   t Coste                                        15,003.2    134.6    2,883.2             96.0 18,117.0
II. Recurrent costs
A. COUTS IN  8X'T!OUNpI> T
1.  DTAIL  SALARJS
Incremental Salaries - FDFP                            303.9    320.5            -              -    624.4
2.    LAC T
Deplacement - FDFP                                          -    281.7           -           78.4    360.2
Deplacesent - AGEPE                                         -        -       110.5              -    110.5
Subtotal    L      WT                                          -    281.7       110.5           78.4    470.7
3. 
Maintenance Equipement - FDFP                               -     24.1           -              -      24.1
Maintenance Vehicules - FDFP                                -    134.4           -               -    134.4
Maintenance de Vehicules - AGEPE                            -        -        38.3              -      38.3
Maintenance do Batiments - AGEPE                            -        -         7.8              -       7.8
Subtotal b                                                     -    158.5        46.1               -    204.6
4. IfOU3NTUDE DE SUREAE
Fourniture de Bureau - FDFP                             56.7         -           -              -      56.7
Fourniture do Bureau - AGEPE                               -    1             16.6              -      16.6
Subtotal YOUPITURE DE BUR3EAUX                              56.7                 16.6               -     73.3
Total Recurrent Coste                                             360.6    760.7        173.2           78.4  1,372.9
Total  crJ=  OSTS c15,363.8    895.3    3,056.4                                                         174.4 19489.9r
Taxes                                                             73.1      75.2       739.9              -    888.2                                                          (DZ
Foreign Exchange                                               3,143.7      55.6    1,289.6               -  4,488.9
Wed Jun 01 09:15:58 1994                                                                                                                                                             I-X



COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Ependiture Accounts by Years
(USS '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                          Exchange
95/96    96/97      97/98    98/99    Total          I     Aeount
I. Investment Costs
A. Genie Civil - AGEPE                                    59.8          -         -         -      59.8    26.1    15.6
B. BIS
1. Equipement
Equipement - FDFP                                  31.4          -         -         -      31.4    25.0       7.8
Equipement - AGEPE                                383.1          -         -         -    383.1    28.0   107.3
Subtotal ZquLpeoent                                   414.4         -                   -    414.4    27.8   115.2
2. Mobiliers *t Matariels
Hobiliers - AGEPE                                  49.3          -         -                49.3     39.9    19.6
3. Vebioules
Vehicules -FDFP                                    78.0          -         -         -      78.0    20.5    16.0
Vehiculs - AGEPE                                  99.6      _             -         -      99.6    20.5    20.4
Subtotal Vehicules                                    177.6         -         -         -    177.6    20.5    36.4
Subtotal BIDJ                                            641.3          -         -         -    641.3      26.7   171.2
C.   VzICs D8 SwALX.ImS
1. Assistane Technique Internationale
Assistance Technique  Int'l - FDFP                 57.0      42.1       42.1         -    141.2      39.0    55.1
Assistance Technique Int'l - AGEPE                167.2    138.4        99.8      22.6    428.0      70.9   303.6
Subtotal Assistane Technique International-    224.2            180.5    141.9       22.6    569.2    63.0   358.7
2. Assistanoe Technice Eaticmal
Assistance Technique Nat'l. - FDFP                 67.2       28.2      28.2      28.2    151.6       2.0      3.0
Assistance Technique Nat'l - AGEPE                 30.9       29.5      21.8      18.3    100.6       5.4      5.4
Subtotal Assistance Technique National                 98.1      57.7      50.0      46.5    252.2        3.3      8.4
Subtotal  SVIC:  ME SDCWIALISTJS                         322.3    238.2    191.9         69.0    821.5    44.7   367.1
D.  SICtO
1. Foration Population Active
Formation Population Active - FDFP              3,625.0  3,625.0  3,625.0  3,625.0 14,500.0          20.0 2,900.0
2. Foration a l'etrangar
Formation a l'etranger - FDFP                       6.6      76.3          -         -      82.9    73.3    60.7
Formation a l'etranger - AGEPE                      2.9       5.9        1.2         -      10.0    79.6       8.0
Subtotal Formation a l'-tranger                         9.5      82.2       1.2          -     92.9    73.9    68.7
3. Formation locale
Formation locale - FDFP                                -      8.3          -         -       8.3        -
Subtotal SOUBTION                                      3,634.5  3,715.5  3,626.2  3,625.0 14,601.2          20.3 2,968.7
E. ETUDES                                                282.0    282.0    395.0    355.1  1,314.0    52.2   686.0
Total Investmnt Costs                                      4,939.9  4,235.6  4,213.1  4,049.1 17,437.8    24.1 4,208.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. COUTS X FOICTIC N
1. IDiENAL SALA8IS
Incremental Salaries - FDFP                       135.6    135.6    135.6    135.6    542.4             -
2. IIJ5
Deplacement - FDFP                                130.0       56.0      56.0      56.0    298.0         -
Deplacement - AGEPE                                23.4       23.4      23.4      23.4      93.6    42.7    40.0
Subtotal DWLAC S                                      153.4      79.4      79.4      79.4    391.6    10.2    40.0
3. 
Maintenance Equipement - FDFP                       4.9        4.9       4.9       4.9      19.7        -        -
Kaintenance Vehicules - FDFP                       26.9       26.9      26.9      26.9    107.6    25.6    27.6
Maintenance de Vehicules - AGEPE                       -      10.5      10.5      10.5      31.6    12.7    13.5
Maintenance de Batiments - AGEPE                       -       2.0       2.0       2.0       6.0        -        -
Subtotal MaITZAM                                       31.8      44.4      44.4      44.4    164.9    24.9    41.1
4.  KUNXITU      D8 BUAM
Fourniture do Bureau - FDFP                        11.7      11.7       11.7      11.7      46.8     25.6    12.0
Fourniture de Bureau - AGEPE                        3.5       3.5        3.5       3.5      14.0    42.7       6.0
Subtotal  KOUPITUI  D  BDUFEAZX                        15.2      15.2      15.2      15.2      60.8    29.6    18.0
Sotal Recurrent Costs                                         336.0    274.6    274.6    274.6  1,159.7           8.5    99.1
Total   WL.DX  COSTS                                         5,276.0  4,510.2  4,487.7  4,323.7 18,597.5    23.2 4,307.7
Physical Contingencies                                        93.0      42.0      36.4      28.2    199.6    40.6    81.1
Price Contingencies                                         210.2    126.7    172.7    183.2    692.8    14.5   100.1
Total PROJST COSTS                                          5,579.1  4,678.9  4,696.7  4,535.1 19,489.9           23.0 4,488.9
Taxes                                                        438.0    148.6      165.2    136.4    888.2           -        -
Foreign Exchange                                          1,261.0  1,130.0  1,105.1    992.9  4,488.9              -        -
Wed Jun 01 09:16:51 1994
h87



COTE D'IvOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
ZXpditure Aumamt  by Financiesre
(USS '000)
Local   Duties
The Government          IDA               Total         For.    LoclE  t.
Amount      I     Amount      I      Amount      I      Exch.   TaxEs)  Taxes
1. Invetent Costs
A. Genie Civil - AGEPE                                10.6    13.0      70.6      87.0     81.2       0.4    17.8      52.8   10.6
B. aw 
1. mquipamnt
Equipasent - FDFP                              21.0    53.5       18.2     46.5      39.2      0.2      8.4      16.1   14.7
Equip ent - AGEPE                             178.9    36.2    315.7       63.8    494.5       2.5   121.7    194.0  178.9
Subtotal  quxiPment                               199.8    37.4    333.9       62.6    533.7       2.7   130.2    210.0  193.6
2. *bl1iere at bateriels
Nobiliers - AGEPE                               18.9    30.1      43.9     69.9      62.8       0.3    22.4      21.5   18.9
3. Vehioul-
Vehiculs -FDFP                                 52.7    55.3      42.7     44.7      95.4       0.5    16.6      40.9   37.9
Vehicules - AGEPE                               53.3    39.8      80.7     60.2    134.0        0.7    23.3      57.4   53.3
Subtotal Vebiaules                                106.0    46.2    123.4       53.8    229.4       1.2    39.9      98.3   91.2
subtotal awm                                         324.7    39.3    501.2       60.7    825.9       4.2   192.5    329.8  303.7
c.  S     Ae .  8DCIALI5TZ
1. A tamo  Technique lnternatiale
Assistance Technique  Int'l - FDFP              14.5     9.2    143.3      90.8    157.7        0.8    62.3      81.0   14.5
Assistance Technique Int'l - AGEPE              71.9    14.5    422.9      85.5    494.8        2.5   338.8      84.2   71.9
Subtotal AeJedtawx Technique Internatioualo    86.4    13.2    566.2           86.8    652.6       3.3   401.1    165.1   86.4
2. Aesiet.ae Teebmique lationa
Asiistance Technique Nat'l. - FDFP              15.6     8.1    176.2      91.9    191.8        1.0     3.4    172.8   15.6
Assistance Technique Nat'l - AGEPE              15.8    12.1    115.6      87.9    131.5        0.7     6.0    109.7   15.8
Subtotal Assistance Technique Itational            31.4      9.7    291.9      90.3    323.3       1.7     9.4    282.5   31.4
Subtotal  inV i =  SPMALIZS                          117.8    12.1    858.1       87.9    975.9       5.0   410.4    447.6  117.8
D.  OSlC41
1. loruation Population Active
Formation Population Active - FDFP          1,450.0    10.0 13,050.0       90.0 14,500.0      74.4 2,900.0 11,600.0        -
2. romation a l'etraner
Formation a l'etranger - FDFP                   13.5    13.4      86.8     86.6    100.2       0.5    70.9       15.9   13.5
Formation A 1'etranger - AGEPE                   1.2    10.2      10.7     89.8      12.0       0.1     9.3       1.4    1.2
Subtotal Toration a l'etranger                     14.7    13.1      97.5      86.9    112.2       0.6    80.2      17.3   14.7
3. Tormation locale
Formtion locale - FDFP                           1.3    11.5      10.2     88.5      11.5       0.1    1         10.2    1.3
Subtotal  oSTlC4                                   1,466.0    10.0 13,157.7       90.0 14,623.7      75.0 2,980.2 11,627.5   16.0
E. ETUDES                                            385.4    23.9  1,224.9       76.1  1,610.3       8.3   778.4    446.5  385.4
Total Invetnt Coat.                                    2,304.5    12.7 15,812.5       87.3 18,117.0      93.0 4,379.2 12,904.3  833.4
I1. Recurrent Coats
A. COUTS        0CTIOETI
1.  _        .AL  MALRS
Incremntal Salaries - FDFP                         -       -    624.4    100.0    624.4        3.2        -    624.4
2. DCPLCS
Deplacement - FDFP                              84.5    23.5    275.7      76.5    360.2        1.8       -    360.2
Deplacent - AGEPE                               33.2    30.0      77.4     70.0    110.5        0.6    44.1      50.3   16.1
Subtotal IXK    inT                               117.7    25.0    353.0       75.0    470.7       2.4    44.1    410.5   16.1
3. 
Maintenance Equipement - FDFP                    7.2    30.0      16.9     70.0      24.1       0.1       -      21.1    3.0
Maintenance Vehicules - FDFP                    40.3    30.0      94.1     70.0    134.4        0.7    30.6      84.3   19.5
Maintenance de Vehicules - AGEPE                11.5    30.0      26.8     70.0      38.3       0.2    15.1      17.6    5.6
Maintenance de Batiments - AGEPE                 2.4    30.0       5.5     70.0       7.8         -       -       7.8      -
subtotal W                                         61.4    30.0    143.2       70.0  204.6         1.0    45.6    130.9   28.1
*. FOUNITU    Dl: SUUX
Fourniture de Bureau - FDFP                     17.0    30.0      39.7     70.0      56.7       0.3    13.2      35.2    8.2
Fourniture de Bureau - AGEPE                     5.0    30.0      11.6     70.0      16.6       0.1     6.6       7.5    2.4
SubtotaLl OIISn  3C B AUX                          22.0    30.0      51.3      70.0     73.3       0.4    19.9      42.8   10.6
Total Recurrent Coote                                    201.0    14.6  1,171.9       85.4  1,372.9       7.0   109.7  1,208.5   54.8
Total Diebur_ement                                      2,505.5    12.9 16,984.4       87.1 19,489.9    100.0 4,488.9 14,112.8  888.2
Wed Jun 01 09:12:35 1994
' .
O X



COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurnt Accounts by Financi.rs
(US$ '000)
Local   Duties
The Government           IDA                Total         For.    (Excl.    A
Amount      I     Amount       I      Amount       I      Exch.   Taxes)  Taxes
A. Genie Civil- AGEPE                          10.6    13.0       70.6      07.0      81.2       0.4    17.8       52.8   10.6
B. EQUIPEMENT                                 199.8    37.4    333.9        62.6    533.7        2.7   130.2    210.0  193.6
C. VEHICULES                                  106.0    46.2    123.4        53.8    229.4        1.2    39.9       98.3   91.2
D. MOBILIERS ET MATERIELS                      18.9    30.1       43.9      69.9      62.8       0.3    22.4       21.5   18.9
E.  n Dsmv s DE SCIALITU
Asaistance Technique - International   106.4    14.5    627.1            85.5    733.5        3.8   495.0    132.1  106.4
Assistance Technique - National            393.0    21.5  1,434.1        78.5  18_27.1        9.4   687.9    746.2  393.0
Subtotal  RVI    DE S2 CIALI*2E5              499.5    19.5  2,061.2        80.5  2,560.6       13.1 1,182.8    878.3  499.5
V. toEBic
Formation Population Active             1,450.0    10.0 13,050.0        90.0 14,500.0       74.4 2.900.0 11,600.0         -
Formation a l'etranger                      14.7    13.1       97.5      86.9    112.2        0.6    80.2       17.3   14.7
Formation locals                             5.0    13.6       32.0      86.4      37.0       0.2      6.0     26.0    5.o
Subtotal. VOIC                              1,469.7    10.0 13,179.5        90.0 14,649.2       75.2 2 986.1 11,643.4   19.7
G. ETUDES                                                             -        -         -         -        -
H. cOUSB De  CS1 ImT
Salaires                                       -        -    624.4    100.0    624.4          3.2        -    624.4        -
Deplecement                                117.7    25.0    353.0        75.0    470.7        2.4    44.1    410.5   16.1
Fournitures de Bureau                       22.0    30.0       51.3     70.0       73.3       0.4    19.9      42.8   10.6
Maintenance Vehicules                       51.8    30.0    120.9        70.0    172.6        0.9    45.6    101.9   25.1
Maintenance Batiments                        2.4    30.0        5.5      70.0       7.8         -        -       7.8       -
Maintenance Equipements                      7.2    30.0       16.9      70.0      24.1       0.1        -     21.1    3.0
Subtotal COUTS tX: FOTI                       201.0    14.6  1,171.9        85.4  1 372.9        7.0   109.7  1,208.5   54.8
Total                                        2,505.5    12.9 16,984.4        87.1 19,489.9    100.0 4,488.9 14,112.8  888.2
Wed Jun 01 09:20:12 1994
Poqz
lb ~
QZ
tD.93



COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
ccmncentm by Vinanci*rm
(US3$ '000)
Local   Dutie3
The Government           IDA                Total         For.    (Exc1.    &
Amount      I     Amount       I      Amount       I      Exch.   T&*x3)  Taxes
1. TRAINING, RETRAINING AND APPRENTICESHIP PROGRA  1,531.9    10.0 13,831.9             90.0 15,363.8       78.8 3,143.7 12,146.9   73.1
2. TRAINING OUTREACH SUPPORT                              205.8    23.0    689.6        77.0    895.3        4.6    55.6    764.6   75.2
3. LABOR MARKET HONITORING                                767.9    25.1  2,288.5        74.9  3,056.4       15.7 1,289.6  1,026.8  739.9
4. REFINANCEXD4T DE L'AVANCE                                   -        -    174.4    100.0    174.4         0.9        -    174.4        -
Total Di bure_mt                                            2,505.5    12.9 16,984.4        87.1 19,489.9    100.0 4,488.9 14,112.8  888.2
Wed Jun 01 09:19:09 1994
X >
X3 Z
0s Z
tl7  X
O X



COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Projeot Coot ruinary
I  I Total
(CFAF '000)                      (USS '1000)         Foreign    Base
Local     Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
1. TRAINING, RETRAINING AND APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM  7,019,185  1,806,009  8,825,194 12,102.0  3,113.8 15,215.9                20        82
2. TRAINING OUTREACH SUPPORT                            398,840.5   29,823.6  428,664.1    687.7         51.4    739.1          7        4
3. LABOR MARKET MONITORING                              771,482.5  662,634.9  1,434,117  1,330.1  1,142.5  2,472.6            46        13
A. REFINANCEHENT DE L'AVANCE                             98,600.0           -   98,600.0    170.0           -    170.0          -        1
Total 3AWCM  COSTS                                         8,288,108  2,498,467 10,786,575 14,289.8  4,307.7 18,197.5             23       100
Physical Contingencies                                    68,743.2   47,018.2  115,761.5    118.5         81.1    199.6        41         1
Price Contingencies                                      343,728.5   58,070.7  401,799.2    592.6    100.1    692.8            14         4
Total PRaDCT COSTS                                         8,700,580  2,603,556 11,304,136 15,001.0  8,488.9 19,489.9             23       105
Wed Jun 01 09:21:19 1994
Po z
mt Z
>0
O X4



COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Ccponentw by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Includinq Contingencies
95/96    96/97     97/98    98/99    Total
1. TRAINING, RETRAINING AND APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM  3,781.6  3,938.1  3,843.7  3,800.3 15,363.8
2. TRAINING OUTREACH SUPPORT                                305.7    185.7    196.7    207.2    895.3
3. LABOR MARKET MONITORING                               1,317.4    55S.1    656.4    527.5  3,056.4
4. REFINANCEttENT DE L'AVANCE                               174.4                   -         -    174.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          5,579.1  4,678.9  4,696.7  4,535.1 19,489.9
Wed Jun 01 09:23:48 1994
SQ z
u7 t4
OD X
00



COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Local/Foreign/Taxem by Financi.ra
(USS '000)
The Government            IDA                Total
Amount      I       MAount        I     Amount      I
I.   Foreign                       -        -  4,488.9      100.0  4,488.9        23.0
II.  Local (Excl. Taxes) 1,617.3    II.5 12,495.5            88.5 14,112.8        72.4
III. Taxes                    888.2   100.0           -                888.2       4.6
Total Project                   2,505.5      12.9 16,984.4       87.1 19,489.9       100.0
Wed Jun 01 09:20:01 1994
'0



I



ANNEX X
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(net of taxes and duties, in US$ million equivalent)
PROJECT                     Disbursement                     Disbursement
YEAR       Semester         in Semester      Cumulative      % of Total   Profile 1)
1           1                     0.1             0.1              1%        0%
2                    2.2             2.3             14%       1W;
2           3                     2.3             4.6             27%       22%:
4                    2.2             6.8             40%       34%1:
3            5                    2.1             8.9             52%       54%j
6                    2.0            10.9             64%       66%'
4            7                    2.1            13.0             76%       74%.
8                    2.0            15.0             88%       78%I
5            9                    1.9            16.9             99%       86%
10                   0.1            17.0            100%       90%1'
6           1 1                                                             94%
1 2                                                            98%
7           13                                                             100%
1/ Country Disbursement Profile






REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS AND DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
CIRCUIT DES FONDS E1' DES PROCEDURES DE DECAISSEMENT
Le tableau ci apr6s resume le circuit des fonds pour la composante FDFP. Le circuit est identique pour la composante Observatoire de I'AGEPE.
C  0  MPTE                                                                        P A I E M E N T  par virement ou cbique
DOMI    APPROVI  ORDION    MON                                                                                                                      BENEFI  MON
NOM             CILI         SIONNE        NATEUR        NAIE                                              PROCEDURE                                               CIAIRE   NAtE(S)
ATION          MENT
Montanis superieurs i l'qtulvalent de 20.000 USD
Sur Demande de Retrait de Fonds (DRF)
. ilaboree par le Secr6tarial General du FDFP
COMPITE          divers          IDA            DIP         Equi      visee par la DIP
DE           Comptes           sur           el         valent     signte par la CAA qui transmet a l'IDA pour controle et paiement
CREDIT           IDA              res         CAA          DTS      Le fomiulaire de DRF est accompagne de justificatifs
sources
propres
a) Pour uii paiement direct A un tiers: contrat, non objection de l'IDA. facture.t pieces contractuelles  Tiers  Contrat
b) Pour un reapprovisionnementdu Compte Spocial releve bancaire du Compte Special avec Etat de
rapprochemrtent et les Etats Certifies de D6penses.                                             Compte      XOF
Special
COMPTE                            IDA                                Montants < ou = A I'dqulvalent de 20.000 USD
SPECIAL           CAA             sur           DIP                 Sur demande du FDFP avec les justificatifs ci-apres
FDFP                          Compte         et/ou        XOF    c) Pour un paiement direct a un tiers. la demande est transmise directement a 1a CAA avec les pieces  Tiers  Contrat
de          CAA                   visees en a)
Credit                             d) Pour un reapprovisionnementdu Sous Compte Special, la demande est soumise au visa prealable de la  Sous
DIP avec les pieces visees en b) relatives au Sous-Compte Special                               Compte      XOF
Special
SOUS                            CAA
COMPTE            CAA             sur          FDFP         XOF      Monlants < ou = A I'Equdvalent de 20.000 USD
SPECIAL                         Compte                               e) Paiement direct du FDFP aux tiers                                                              Tiers    Contrat
FDFP                           Special                                                                                                                            _
COMPTE,                           DIP                                Tout montant coffspondant a la pani des fachres al charge du Gouvernemnen non fligibk auir                               > :
PROJET           CAA              sur         FDFP         XOF    paiements ci-dessus vaiss                                                                                              OQ Z
FDFP                            BSIE                               f) Paiement direct du FDFP aux tiers                                                              Tiers     Contrat   rb X
TRESOR >
0   -
C.A.A.  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement                                              XOF: F CFA                                                                                     M
D.I.P.  Direction des Investissements Publics                                        DTS  Droits de Tirage Speciaux
Tiers: Entrepreneur, fournisseur ou prestataire de services                          BSIE: Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement






Annex XII
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.     Bank SuPervision Input into Key Activities
The table in this annex describes regular supervision. In addition, specific tasks such as the review of progress
reports, terms of reference, annual plans, audits, procurement and disbursement actions, correspondence, etc. are estimated
to require 12 staff-weeks during the first year and 8 staff-weeks of various specialists per subsequent year. The supervision
of each component, including the review of procurement decisions and of progress reports, will be carried out by the task
manager and procurement specialist of the sector concerned under the responsibility of AF 1 PH.
2.     Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
a.     Quarterly Progress reports would be submitted (in January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each
project year) by the executing agencies (FDFP and AGEPE). They would include a summary of
implementation under each project component, financial statements on project expenditures, updated project
implementation and records of contract advertising, bidding, and awards with indications of methods of
procurement. FDFP would also indicate the evolution of its financing of collective projects; it would
collect input from each sponsor.
b.     An imnlementation review workshop, convened by the Secretary General of the FDFP, with the
participation of the various project agencies, including IDA and ILO, will be held in January of each project
year. The workshop would be based on: (i) the progress reports in the above paragraph which for the
purpose of the the annual review, would also include and annual work program and estimated budget for
the next period; and (ii) the status of performance indicators as listed in Annex 8.
c.     Mid-term review. In addition, FDFP and AGEPE would carry out not later than October 31, 1996 a mid-
tem review of the progress made in carrying out the project, draw lessons, and take the necessary
corrective actions for the rest of the project duration. The review would cover all aspects of the project,
with a special focus on: (i) the progress made by FDFP in attracting larger groups of beneficiaries such
as employees of small and micro-enterprise and other priority target groups (women, rural workers,
apprentices, etc.); (ii) the progress made by FDFP in balancing the distribution of financing among its
various clients (Annex 8); (iii) the results of the intensive outreach program carried out during the first two
years of the Project and the problems it has encountered; (iv) the progress made by AGEPE in establishing
its Observatory (staffing, procuring equipment, etc.) and carrying out substantive work (survey taking and
data gathering, analysis and studies, etc.). The mid-term review would also be conducted with the ILO
and would review progress made in the implementation of their own program.
d.     The Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in collaboration with the two executing
agencies, would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions and
participating in the mission with them.
e.     Project Completion Report. Within six months of the Credit closing date, a completion report prepared
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, would be transmitted to IDA.
f.     Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally be hosted by the Minister of
Economy and Finance (or his/her representative) and be co-chaired with the the Minister of Employment
and Civil Service (or his/her representative); they would include the heads of the project implementing
agencies, and other relevant services.



Annex XII
Page 2 of 2
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
Project             Activities                    Expected Skill Requirements            Staff Input
Years                                                                                  (Staff-weeks)
Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET,  15
Project    (Project Launch Workshop)      Institutional development/capacity building,
Year I                                   Procurement/Disbursement, Women/Informal
Sector Specialist.
Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET  9
Women/Informal Sector Specialist.
Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET,  15
Project    (Annual Implementation         Institutional development/capacity building,
Year 2    Review Workshop)               Procurement/Disbursement, Women/Informal
Sector Specialist.
Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET   9
Women/Informal Sector Specialist.
Mid-term Project Review        Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET,  15
Project                                   Institutional development/capacity building,
Year 3                                   Procurement/Disbursement, Women/Informal
Sector Specialist.
Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET   9
Women/Informal Sector Specialist.
Project    Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET,  15
Year 4    (Annual Implementation         Institutional development/capacity building,
Review Workshop)               Procurement/Disbursement, Women/Informal
Sector Specialist.
Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET   9
Women/Informal Sector Specialist.
Supervision Mission            Financial analysis, Economist/Statistician/VET,  15
(Preparation of Project        Institutional development/capacity building,
Completion Report)            Procurement/Disbursement, Women/Informal
Sector Specialist.



ANNEX XilI
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COTE D'IVOIRE
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of February 28,1994)
USS million ---
(less cancelbations)
Loan or         Fiscal                                                                                 Undis-
Credit No.       Year       Borrower                 Purpose                             BANK    IDA bursed
Sixty-ome (61) Loess a-d four (4) Credits have beoo ftUy disbursed.                    2153.05  107.50
Ln. 2619-0       1986       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Health I                        22.20            2.72
Ln. 2627-0       1986       RepublicofCoted'lvoire    Palm OilV                          13.40            1.10
Ln. 2789-0       1987       Republic ofCoted'lvoire    Third Urban Project               126.00          12.12
Ln. 2874-0       1988       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Rubber V                         11.54           0.42
Ln. 3128-0       1990       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Municipal Develpoment           66.00           30.37
Ln. 3155-0       1990       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Abidjan Environmental Protection  21.90          5.69
Ln. 3186-0       1990       Republic of Cote d'lvoire   Forestry Sector                  80.00           60.91
Ln. 3251-0       1991       Republic of Cote d'lvoire   Pilot Women in Development        2.20            1.09
Total number of Loans = 8                                                               343.24          114.42
Cr. 2363-0       1992       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Privatization Support                    15.00   13.81
Cr. 2503-0       1993       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Economic Management TA                  17.00   15.18
Cr. 2505-0       1993       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Human Resources Dev. Mgmt. Support       6.70    6.53
Cr. 2303-1 S     1994       Republic of Cote d'lvoire   Financial Sector Adjustment              100.00    2.43
Cr. 2323-1 S     1994       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Human Resources Adjustment              100.00   51.91
1/Cr. 2323-2 S    . 1994      Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Human Resources Adjustment              85.00   86.18
Cr. 2324-1 S     1994       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Regulatory Reform              .,       50.00   50.32
Total number of Credits = 7                                                                     373.70  226.36
TOTAL 2/                                                                   2,496.29  481.20
of which repaid                                                            928.98    0.97
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                   1,567.31  480.23
Amount Sold                          5.10
of which repaid                     5.10
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                           340.78
List of Closed SALS/SECALS:
Cr. 2323-0       1992       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Human Resources Adj.                    25.00    0.00
Cr. 2303-0       1992       Republic of Cots d'lvoire   Financial Sector Adj.                    50.00    0.00
Cr. 2324-0       1992       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Regulatory Reform                       25.00    0.00
Ln. 2058-0       1982       Republic of Cote d'lvoire   SAL I                            150.00           0.00
Ln. 2332-0       1984       Republic of Cote d'lvoire   Structural Adj. ll              250.70            0.00
Ln. 2711 -0      1986       Republi of Cote d'lvoire   SAL III                          250.00            0.00
Ln. 3240-0       1990       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Water Supply Sewerage           80.00            0.00
Ln. 3150-0       1990       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Energy Sector Loan              100.00           0.00
Ln. 3127-0       1990       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Ag. Sect. Adj.                  150.00           0.00
Ln. 3428-0       1992       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Human Resouces Adj.             25.00            0.00
Ln. 3408-0       1992       Republic of Cote d'lvoire   Financial Sector Adj.            50.00            0.00
Ln. 3429-0       1992       Republic of Cote d'lvoire    Regulatory Reform               25.00            0.00
TOTAL                                                                      1,080.70  100.00    0.00
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ Total approved. repayments. and outstsnding balance represent both active and inactive Loano and Credits.
(S) indicates SAIISECAL Loans and Credits






Annex XIV
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
LABOR FORCE TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File <"
Legal Documents
1.      Law No. 91-997 of December 27, 1991 creating the Vocational Training Development Fund (FDFP) and dissolving the
National Vocational Training Bureau (ONFP).
2.      Decree No. 92-05 of January 8, 1992 organizing the Vocational Training Development Fund.
3.      Decree No 92-927 of December 23 1992 specifying the utilization of the Apprenticeship tax and the Continuous Vocational
Tax.
4.      Decree No 92-386 of July 1, 1992 appointing the Secretary General of the FDFP.
5.      Bylaw No 468/MEFP/DCSPPPCB of May 14, 1992 of the Minister of National Education appointing the liquidator of the
ONFP.
6.      Bylaw No 1099/MEFP/DCSPPPCB of September 22, 1992 of the Minister of National Education appointing the liquidator
of the Fonds National de Re2ulation.
7.      Decree No 93-221 of February 3, 1993 creating the Agency for the Study and Promotion of Employment (AGEPE).
8.      Decree No 92-316 of May 1992 creating the National Vocational Training Agency (AGEFOP).
Documents Prepared by (or for) the Executin2 Agencies
I.      FDFP 1992-1993 Activity Report (1993).
2.      FDFP Orientation Scheme (1993).
3.      Continuous Vocational Training and Apprentice Priority Action Plan. Coopers and Lybrand, 1993.
4.      FDFP Operations Manual
5.      Activity Report of the FNR (1987-92). June 15, 1992.
6.      FDFP 1994 Budget
7.      Audit Report of FNR's Accounts (as of September 30, 1992). Ernst and Young.
8.      FDFP List of Pre-qualified Training Providers
Other Government Documents
1.      National Employment Policy: A Three-Year Plan (1991-1993). Ministry of Employment and Civil Service.
2.      Labor Statistical Yearbook (1992). May 1993.
Documents Related to Other Bank Proiects
1.      C6te d'lvoire. Policy Framework Paper, 1994-1996.
2.      Human Resources Development Program. Memorandum of the President. November 22, 1991.
3.      Human Resources Management Project. Memorandum of the President. May 10, 1993.
4.      Competitiveness and Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program Memorandum of the President. 1991.
Studies
1.     The Informal Sector in C6te d'lvoire. Kouadio Benie Marcel. ILO, October 1993.
2.      Study of NGOs in Cameroon and C6te d'lvoire. Leslie Fox, Consultant, AFIPH. June 24, 1993. World Bank Report No
12030-AFR.
3.      Development Policy and Employment in C6te d'lvoire. The Cost of the Transition. ILO/UNIDO. June 1003.
4.      Study on the Role of Technical and Vocational High Schools in the Education System in Cote d'lvoire. DCGTx, July 1992.
5.      Education in Ivory Coast: A Sector Analysis. Eryk Raymaekers, August 1993. (in English)
6.      C6te d'lvoire: Industry and Competitiveness Review. World Bank Report No. 9897-lVC. August 10, 1991.
(I)     Unless otherwisc indicated, all the documents in this Annex are in French.












IBRD 25726
E   M  A L I   *    A'
R~~~AARA  T~~~~~~~NORASA ~~~~~C6TE   D'IVOIFIE
*-t  "J /')S      **_%t      ,I       } t%_             B U R K I N A                           LABOR FORCE TRAINING
ro  r'i T                                      ~' 8<ooDor)owbsse F ASO 0                 SUPPORT PROJECT
t~ ~~~~~~~~~~~BSRDA _                     mSS        EDD D OOD
I AVIEID R OA'DS
EARTH -ND GRAVEL ROADS
TO.B.                                                      -A                                             RAILROADS/ 4\SR
T-SR-ATrO-V. AREORAS
GUINEA                                                                                                      DT. EXVVe22 X j  >    CAA
C C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -,                                    I ESv) X_6_NTERTVT,ONA EGSUNDARISS
r _St                                                                                                                                         C
MAARST*1117, IAITAI
I ZUINIIU~~~~~~~~~~                                                        OT.Ek    EA~N
NA.



