Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2637 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Labor Force Training Support Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 12, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2637 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated October  30, 1991, from the 
Borrower describing in particular a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to implement the Borrower's strategy in the subsector of continuing 
vocational training (hereafter called the Program), and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to enter with the International Labour Organization 
(ILO) into an agreement (the ILO Agreement) to assist the Borrower in the execution of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the ILO Agreement;
(D)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the Fonds de 
Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle (FDFP) with the Borrower's assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to FDFP a portion of 
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and FDFP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AGEPE" means Agence d'Etudes et de Promotion de l'Emploi, an 
Etablissement Public a caractere industriel et commercial, established by the 
Borrower's decree 93-221 of February 3, 1993;
(b)
"CFA Francs" or "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(c)
"FDFP" means Fonds de Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle, 
established by the Borrower's law 91-997 of December 27, 1991;
(d)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office of the UNDP 
(United Nations Development Programme);
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and the 
FDFP, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FDFP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Financing 
Agreement.
(g)
"L'Observatoire de l'Emploi" means Observatoire de l'Emploi, an 
administrative service of AGEPE, responsible for the monitoring of the labor market.
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
April 13, 1994 and May 3, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(i)
"Special Account" means any of the special deposit accounts referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project and 
for the purposes of Part C of the Project, open and maintain in CFA Francs two special 
deposit accounts (hereinafter referred to as Special Account A and B, respectively) in 
the Borrower's Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
November 15 and May 15 commencing November 15, 2004 and ending May 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an  annual rate agreed with the Association 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform 
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part C of the Project through AGEPE with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and 
training practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Part of the 
Project; and
 
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower 
shall cause FDFP to perform all its 
obligations set forth in the 
Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FDFP to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to 
FDFP under a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FDFP, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Financing 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for Part C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B 
of the Project, shall be carried out by FDFP pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall monitor the implementation of Part C of the 
Project through AGEPE and shall:
(i)
submit, or cause AGEPE to submit, to the Association at the end of 
each 
quarter of the calendar year a progress report on the 
implementation of the 
Project in a format approved by the 
Association;
(ii)
organize and carry out, or cause AGEPE to do so, not later than 
January 31 of 
each calendar year, a joint review meeting for the 
Borrower and the 
Association. The quarterly progress 
reports shall provide the basic inputs for 
these meetings. In 
addition, at each annual review meeting, the Borrower shall 
Page  5
present a work program and budget for the implementation of the Project during 
the coming fiscal year, to the Borrower and the Association for approval; and
(iii)
implement such work program for the fiscal year in question. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a midterm 
review of the Project in the second year following the Effective Date, or at any other 
time as agreed between the Borrower and the Association. At least sixty (60) days 
prior to such review, the Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association all 
necessary documentation for the evaluation of the Project. The terms of reference of 
this review shall be acceptable to the Association and shall include an assessment of, 
inter alia: (i) progress made in achieving key Project objectives; (ii)  the need to 
adjust Project design in the light of the implementation experience; (iii) the 
performance of FDFP and AGEPE; and (iv) the performance of the technical assistance. 
In addition, as part of the review, the Borrower shall prepare a program of actions, 
satisfactory to the Association, to deal with deficiencies in Project implementation 
identified during the review.
(b)
Promptly after the review mentioned in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall take, or shall cause to be taken, all necessary action required for the 
implementation of the program of actions referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its prior 
approval any proposal to modify FDFP's tripartite management system during the 
Project's implementation.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall make available to FDFP the proceeds of the CVT 
and Apprenticeship taxes (Taxe Additionnelle a la Formation Professionnelle Continue; 
Taxe d'Apprentissage) until the completion of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall employ, and cause FDFP to employ, independent 
auditors for the auditing of AGEPE's and FDFP's respective accounts in accordance with 
the terms of this Agreement throughout the implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project of the 
departments or agencies (including AGEPE) of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
Part C of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts A and B for 
each fiscal year (and 
semiannually for all expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure) audited, 
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year (or each 
semiannual period 
for statements of expenditure), a certified copy of 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Accounts A and 
B was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
FDFP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that FDFP will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
Any of the following shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of FDFP to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement:
(i)
the Borrower's law 91-997 of December 27, 1991, creating FDFP;
 
(ii)
the Borrower's decree 92-05 of January 8, 1992, as amended, 
detailing the 
organization and operation of FDFP; and
 
(iii)
the Borrower's decree 92-927 of December 23, 1992 on the financing 
of 
continuous vocational training.
 
(d)
FDFP's operations manual, referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, as adopted by the Management Committee of FDFP and accepted by the 
Association, has been amended, modified or suspended so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of FDFP to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower's decree 93-221 of February 3, 1993 creating AGEPE has been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of AGEPE to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(f)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FDFP or AGEPE, or for the 
suspension of their operations.
(g)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
any event specified in pararaph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
an outreach and promotion service shall have been established in FDFP by 
decree of the Borrower;
(b)
qualified staff in adequate numbers shall have been assigned to FDFP's 
outreach and promotion service to operate such service;
(c)
the Borrower shall have transmitted the activity program and a set of 
performance criteria for the FDFP's outreach and promotion service; 
(d)
a contract or contracts shall have been signed by FDFP and AGEPE with 
independent auditors for the auditing of FDFP's and AGEPE's accounts in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement;
(e)
an operations manual ensuring the implementation of Parts A and B of the 
Project in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Project Agreement and 
acceptable to the Association shall have been adopted by FDFP's Management Committee;
(f)
the Association shall have received an opinion satisfactory to the 
Association of auditors acceptable to the Association, confirming that FDFP is and 
will not be liable for any past, present or future liabilities incurred by any of the 
Borrower's agencies involved or previously involved in vocational training and in 
particular the Office National de la Formation Professionnelle and Fonds National de 
Regulation;
(g)
the Association shall have received FDFP's audit report for the fiscal 
year 1993;
(h)
the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
FDFP; and
(i)
the Borrower has assigned qualified staff in adequate numbers to the 
Observatoire de l'Emploi of AGEPE.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by FDFP 
and is legally binding upon FDFP in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by the 
Borrower and FDFP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FDFP in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Moise Koumoue Koffi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
Page  9
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works under            50,000         85%
    Part C of the
    Project
(2) Equipment and
    Furniture:
    (a)  Under Parts A           20,000         100%
         and B of the
         Project
    (b)  Under Part C           250,000         100%
         of the Project
(3) Vehicles:
    (a)  Under Parts A           30,000         100%
         and B of the
         Project
    (b)  Under Part C            40,000         100%
         of the Project
(4) Consultants'
    Services:
    (a)  Under Parts A          220,000         100%
         and B of the
         Project
    (b)  Under Part C           800,000         100%
         of the project
(5) Training:
    (a)  Labor Force          9,240,000         90%
         Training
         under Part A
         of the Project
    (b)  Staff Training          70,000         100%
         under Parts A
         and B of the
         Project
    (c)  Staff Training         100,000         100%
         under Part C of
         the Project
(6) Incremental Staff           440,000         100%
    Salary under Parts A
    and B of the Project
(7) Other Operating Costs:
    (a)  Under Parts A          240,000         70%
         and B of the
         Project
    (b)  Under Part C            90,000         70%
         of the Project
(8) Refunding of                150,000         Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
Page  10
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(9) Unallocated                  360,000
    TOTAL                     12,100,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Operating Costs" means incremental recurrent costs incurred by 
FDFP and AGEPE, respectively, for Project implementation, including vehicle operation 
and maintenance, equipment maintenance and repairs, and office supplies; and
(b)
the term "Incremental Staff Salary" means the expenditures incurred for 
the payment of salaries net of taxes incurred for additional staff appointed for the 
duration of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works, and services not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are the enhancement of the Borrower's labor force 
productivity and mobility and its capacity to monitor and analyze labor market 
conditions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Training, Retraining and Apprenticeship Programs
 
1.
Strengthening of FDFP's institutional capacity to assess training program 
proposals and to supervise and manage training programs, through the training of its 
staff and the acquisition of equipment, furniture and vehicles.
2.
Support to the implementation of training and apprenticeship programs with a 
particular emphasis on neglected groups such as women, employees of small enterprises 
and the informal sector, as well as the unemployed. 
Part B:
Training Outreach
 
1.
Strengthening of FDFP's institutional capacity to promote training activities 
through the training of its staff and the acquisition of equipment, furniture and 
vehicles.
2.
Organization and implementation of an outreach program to inform the public in 
general, and, in particular, potential bene- ficiaries as well as other entities 
involved in the implementation of training programs, of the training and apprentice- 
ship programs to be financed under Part A of the Project.
Part C:
Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis
 
(a)
Institutional strengthening of AGEPE through the training of its staff, 
office rehabilitation and the acquisition of equipment, furniture and vehicles.
(b)
Review, gathering and processing of labor market information available 
from various sources.
Page  11
(c)
Promotion of increased coverage and representativity of surveys, 
improvement of questionnaires and other survey instruments, and improvement of data 
quality.
(d)
Definition of a basic set of statistics to reflect the labor market 
evaluation.
(e)
Carrying out of a program of specific surveys and studies.
 
(f)
Regular and timely production and dissemination of short-term and 
medium-term statistics to allow for the monitoring on quarterly, semiannual and annual 
bases, of changes in employment, labor costs, productivity, and skills requirements.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $80,000 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Equipment, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least three different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $40,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association. 
4.
Vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $120,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at 
Page  12
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association or under contracts entered into with IAPSO.
5.
Software, spare parts and accessories of proprietary nature, estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $5,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $20,000, may be procured under direct contracting in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
6.
Goods such as furniture and materials available locally, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $40,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
(a)
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(c)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
(e)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
Page  13
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the following Categories as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(i)
Categories 2(a), 3(a), 4(a), 5(a), 5(b), 6 and 7(a) for Special 
Account A; and
(ii)
Categories 1, 2(b), 3(b), 4(b), 5(c) and 7(b) for Special Account 
B.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) for Special Account A an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into Special Account A; and (ii) for Special Account B an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account B. 
All deposits into any Special Account shall be in accordance with paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures from the eligible Categories corresponding to such Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that any Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation corresponding 
to that Special Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the corresponding Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of any Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into such Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the corresponding 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have 
been paid out of such Special Account for eligible expenditures from 
eligible Categories corresponding to that Special Account.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
Page  14
exclusively for eligible expenditures from eligible Categories corresponding to such 
Special Account.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals from the eligible Categories corresponding to such Special Account should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories corresponding to such Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to eligible expenditures under eligible Categories 
corresponding to such Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the corresponding Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories corresponding to such Special Account 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be madeonly after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures from eligible Categories corresponding to such Special 
Account.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures from eligible Categories corresponding to such Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
