                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26172

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-26370)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                            COTE D'IVOIRE

                                                 FOR A

                                LABOR FORCE TRAINING PROJECT




                                              June 18, 2003




Human Development II
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                               Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                      1 CFAF = US$ 0,0017
                                       US$ 1 = CFA Franc 580

                                      FISCAL YEAR


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGEPE   Agence d'étude et de promotion de l'emploi
ANADER  Agence nationale d'appui au développement rural
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFA     Communauté financière africaine
FDFP    Fonds de développement de la formation professionnelle
FNR     Fonds national de régulation
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Association for Development
ILO     International Labor Office
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
PAFPA   Projet d'appui à la formation de la population active (Labor Force Training Project)
PPF     Project Preparation facility
PSR     Project Status Report
QAG     Quality Assessment Guarantee
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SME     Small and Medium-size Enterprises
TTL     Task Team Leader
TVET    Training and Vocational Education Training
UNIDO   United Nations Industrial Development Organization

                             Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                 Country Manager/Director:      Mamadou Dia
                   Sector Manager/Director:     Alexandre Abrantes
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Michael Drabble

                                       COTE D'IVOIRE
                                LABOR FORCE TRAINING


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8 Performance Rating: 1994-2002                                            27
Annex 9 Sub-Projects Financed under Training of Beneficiaries                    28
Annex 10 Summary Table of Studies by the Observatory                             29
Annex 11 Summary Table of Mission Reports by Consultants                         32
Annex 12 Summary Table of Training Courses                                       33

Project ID: P001186                                                      Project Name: LABOR FORCE TRAINING
Team Leader: Michael Drabble                                             TL Unit: HDNED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 18, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: LABOR FORCE TRAINING                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-26370
   Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Vocational training (87%); Central government administration
                            (13%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Gender (S); Education for the knowledge
                            economy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/16/1993                                        Effective:                         06/22/1995
   Appraisal:    01/07/1994                                            MTR:                           01/14/1998
    Approval:    06/28/1994                                         Closing: 06/28/1999               06/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/FDFP AND AGEPE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Edward K. Jaycox
Country Director:          Mamadou Dia                                         Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager:            Alexandre V. Abrantes                               Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:        Rachidi Radji                                       Andre Komenan
ICR Primary Author(s): Koffi Edoh


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Labor Force Training Support project were to contribute to:
(i) a greater labor force productivity and mobility through technical and basic skills training with
special emphasis on small informal sector and women's enterprises; and (ii) Government's
capacity to monitor and analyze labor market conditions for the formulation of relevant labor
force development strategy.

The project objectives targeted the informal sector, which employs over 90 percent of the labor
force, and women, who represent 63 percent of the sector's employment; it was intended to reach
the poor and the vulnerable, as stated in the economic recovery policy formulated by the
Government following a severe economic crisis. It, thus, fit well with the Government's
priorities. Moreover, the project objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for FY94-97 that recommended the development of human resources to enhance
the country's human capital base. In fact, the Bank has extended technical assistance credits to
Côte d'Ivoire to support the implementation of the economic and human resources development
program.

The overall objective, which consisted of improving the economic and social development of the
country through the strengthening of human resources and enhanced policy formulation, was
clear. The skills training objective in the informal sector, especially for women, was a clear and
achievable objective that was likely to improve productivity and mobility of the overall labor
force. Indeed, it was rightly expected that demand-driven training would contribute to an
improvement of trainees' capacity: (i) to find better employment opportunities in both the formal
and informal sectors; (ii) to receive higher wages and salaries; and (iii) to increase income
generated from self-run small businesses. The second development objective was also sound and
relevant, as the availability of reliable and up-to-date information and data is an important
requirement for a good policy formulation process.

Two risks were identified. The most important being that the demand for and the quality of the
training provided may not be sufficient to have a significant impact on the productivity of the
labor force. This risk would be mitigated by the use of outreach advisors to assist training
sponsors to effectively mobilize training beneficiaries. The second risk was that the quality
control function of FDFP (Fonds de développement de la formation professionnelle), the
executing agency of the training component might decline with the growth of the number of
training proposals. It was planned to mitigate this risk by holding periodic consultations on
training quality.

Context
The Project was initiated in 1994, in an environment that resulted from over a decade of economic
crisis that led to: (i) a fall of GDP by 1 percent per year from 1990 to 1993; (ii) increasing
unemployment; and (iii) worsening of poverty. During that period, modern sector employment
decreased by 1.25 percent per year, while informal sector employment increased by 9 percent per
year.




                                                   - 2 -

In response to the crisis, and following the devaluation of the CFA Franc, the Government, in an
adjusted Policy Framework Paper, reformulated its development strategy. The adjusted policy
included the intensification of human resource development and the expansion of "poverty
alleviation measures with the view to protecting the most vulnerable groups during the adjustment
period". The expectation was that the implementation of the policy would strengthen the
competitiveness of the country's economy and lead to sustainable growth that would improve the
population's welfare. In particular, it was expected that new opportunities will be opened in the
economy for small and medium-size enterprises (SME), micro-enterprise and informal sector
activities involved in the production of import-substitutable goods and sub-contracting. Within
this context, the project sought to contribute to the long-term effort of the economic recovery, by
improving productivity and employability of a growing and diverse labor force, in an environment
in which unsatisfied demand for quality labor had been on the rise.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was organized into the following three components:

Component 1. Training, Retraining, and Apprenticeship
The cost of this component was estimated at US$15.4 million or 79 percent of the total project
cost. Resources provided by the project were added to FDFP's own resources to finance training
provided by private sector organizations and public institutions. This component was intended to
support: (i) micro-enterprise training and to give priority to master craftsmen who in turn, would
improve apprenticeship and product development in the informal sector; (ii) training of displaced
workers, especially those retrenched from private and public enterprises, with a view towards
improving and/or updating their skills for reinsertion in the labor force; and (iii) training of women
entrepreneurs to equip them with technical and management skills. The component will also
support the transition from school to work for school leavers and graduates.

The component targeted the right population. In putting emphasis on micro-enterprises and
women's training, it took into account the fact that the labor market was dominated by very small
firms and that women represented 63 percent of the informal sector employment. Furthermore,
displaced and retrenched workers were particularly numerous in the context of the ongoing
economic restructuring and their training was aimed at improving their mobility. The decision to
target master craftsmen for training was a strategic decision, as it would have a ripple effect deep
into the informal sector.

Component 2. Training Outreach
The cost of this component was estimated at US$1.1 million (6 percent of the total project cost).
This component was intended to support an outreach program that was to inform the public in
general, sponsors, training providers and beneficiaries in particular, of the services available and of
FDFP's work, performance, and achievements.

The design of the component targeted the main groups that will be involved in the project. It was
intended to initiate various outreach actions toward beneficiaries, sponsors, and the training



                                                 - 3 -

community, while ensuring that the whole country was covered. The beneficiaries of the project
from the informal sector would not be aware of the opportunity offered, if special outreach
actions were not directed to them. Intermediaries (sponsors) were also needed to organize the
audience (beneficiaries) with a view toward helping them benefit from the training opportunities.
Training centers were to be informed of the new market and adjust their delivery modes and
materials accordingly. This component's design was therefore highly relevant.

Component 3. Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis
The total cost of this component was estimated at US$3.0 million (15 percent of the total project
cost). It was intended to support the establishment of an information system infrastructure, staff
training, periodic in-depth surveys, and processing and analyzing the data collected, with a view
to regularly publishing and disseminating labor market information. While components 1 and 2
were managed by FDFP, which is under the supervision of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Planning, the third component was implemented by AGEPE (Agence d'études et de promotion de
l'emploi) which depends of the Ministry of Employment and Civil Service.

The design of this component focused on physical facility improvement, equipment, staff training
and the prescribed activities consisting of data collection and analysis, studies, and publications.
It, however, omitted to put into place a staff policy to attract and retain skilled staff necessary for
the operation of the Observatory. It also failed to clearly identify and assess the demand for its
products and how to make them relevant for both the public and private sectors alike. Both
issues directly impacted the satisfactory outcome of this component as described in more detail in
sections 4.1 and 4.2.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. As explained in section 3.1, the overall project objective was
clear, relevant, and consistent with the government's strategy to improve the quality of the labor
market and reach the poor and the vulnerable groups. The contribution to the productivity and
mobility of the labor force expected from the project as stated in the first objective was also clear
and reasonable. Nevertheless, the project did not capture other factors outside of labor force
training which impact on productivity in an economy. The project objectives were supported by a
concise, but comprehensive presentation of the economic context of the country, an analysis of
labor market issues, and an overview of the training system along with its issues. They were also
in line with the Bank's CAS for Côte d'Ivoire approved by the Board in 1993. Since 1970, the
Bank has been involved in Côte d'Ivoire in education projects that included Vocational Education
and Training (VET) components. Lessons learned from this previous experience have also
informed the design of the present project, as did studies produced by the Borrower.

The documents prepared by (or for) the Executing Agencies includes:
l FDFP Orientation Scheme (1993)
l Continuous Vocational Training and Apprentice Priority Action Plan (1993)
l Activity Report of FNR (1987-92) (June 1992)



                                                 - 4 -

l FDFP List of Pre-qualified Training Providers

Some of those prepared by the Bank and other donors include the following:
l The Informal Sector in Côte d'Ivoire (ILO 1993)
l Study of NGOs in Cameroon and Côte d'Ivoire (World Bank Report No 12030-AFR, 1993)
l Development Policy and Employment in Côte d'Ivoire
l The Cost of Transition (ILO/UNIDO, 1993)
l Côte d'Ivoire: Industry and Competitiveness Review (World Bank Report No 9897-IVC,
    1991)

Measurable output indicators were identified for all components. In particular, an indicative table
of both quantitative and qualitative performance indicators was included in Annex 7 of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) with the frequency and data source for collection and update, but
without a baseline. No impact indicator was spelled out for the first development objective to
monitor the improvement of the productivity and the mobility of the labor force. However, the
SAR stated that the first project objective would be judged through periodic ex-post assessments
of the value of training from the beneficiaries' point of view. As for the Observatory and the
second development objective, the indicator was not specific. It stated that the Observatory
"would be assessed in terms of usefulness for policy making as measured by the timeliness and
reliability (including coverage) of the data collected, and the rapidity in processing and
disseminating the results".

An Operations Manual and a work program were developed for FDFP and the Observatory
respectively, and a supervision plan was available.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of outcome objectives under PAFPA was satisfactory. The first
development objective was achieved, but the second one did not fully reach the set goals.
However, the two first project components, which were allocated 85 percent of the total funding
and were the backbone of the first objective, performed well and positively impacted the overall
satisfactory rating.

Achievement of the first development objective was satisfactory. Training was carried out and
beneficiaries belonged to the targeted population (for instance, women represented 52 percent of
the 100,000 trainees, and workers of small informal sector enterprises, small craftsmen,
small-scale food processors, and members of agricultural cooperatives have been trained). Impact
was measured through skills improvement and beneficiaries' revenue and income, which increased
as reported in evaluation studies carried out in 1999 (see Section 4.3). It was then concluded
that in most cases, productivity, has indeed improved as a result of training received. Although
mobility of the labor force as a result of the training has not been thoroughly documented, it can
be argued that the training provided through the project has better equipped the trainees to move
from the informal sector to the formal, or even give them a greater capacity to go from running a
micro-enterprise to starting an SME, if favorable circumstances exist.




                                                   - 5 -

Achievement of the second development objective was partially satisfactory. The Observatory
was only partially successful in setting up a Labor Market Information System toward the end of
the project. Overall performance expectations for this objective were not fully met. Indeed, there
is no evidence of the Observatory's contribution to the Government's policy formulation in the
training or in the labor market sectors. Many factors contributed to this shortcoming: the
Observatory has not been able to assemble and retain well-qualified and experienced staff, as the
compensation package was considered unattractive; out of 22 staff members trained during the
project implementation, only 10 (45 percent) are still employed by the Observatory; Bank
procedures did not allow public institutions to be-short listed for bidding purposes, considerably
limiting the pool of institutions that can adequately collaborate with the Observatory; difficulty to
successfully network with the private sector; and lack of experience in the work to be undertaken,
in particular in data collection and analysis. Weak demand for information in a highly informal
economy and a limited supply of labor market information available for an Observatory to use
were additional impediments for fully achieving the proposed objective. As a consequence, the
surveys, studies, and publications planned were not completely executed; only 45 percent of the
prescribed studies have been undertaken. A "Scientific Committee" (Comité scientifique) was in
charge of the validation of these studies, but there was not any independent evaluation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall achievement of outputs for the project was satisfactory.

1. Training, Retraining, and Apprenticeship
The overall output of this component was satisfactory. About 100,000 people benefited from the
training through 628 projects. Training was delivered mostly in "the fields of agriculture and
livestock remains the most demanded (37 percent)". Other training fields included: management
of cooperatives, simplified accounting, trading techniques, textile, tailoring, and electronics.
Training offered are regrouped in broad categories and presented in Annex 9. In addition to the
training, three studies were undertaken:

l Study of PAFPA's Economic impact
l Analysis of training supply and demand
l PAFPA's impact on social dynamics and the restructuring of the rural-urban limit environment

A beneficiary assessment and an impact evaluation showed that most of the trainees were pleased
with the quality of the training. Furthermore, it pointed out that the project has contributed to a
significant income growth among the trainees. For instance, in electronic related jobs, trainees'
income increased, on average, by 35 percent while; in tailoring, the increase shot up by 52
percent. Despite this income increase in some specific economic sectors, it was difficult to have a
clear idea of the growth that was specifically due to the training.

On the less successful side of this component, it was planned that the project would give priority
to the training of master craftsmen. The expectation was that better trained craftsmen would be
used as leverages to increase the number of trainees in their respective fields (i.e,: ripple effect).
A recent study undertaken by the Bank indicated that working through informal sector
associations (ISAs) can be instrumental to success in attracting and training craftsmen. It was
further stressed that master craftsmen are not immediately interested in receiving skills training



                                                 - 6 -

and need to be "hooked". Dynamic ISAs would have helped promoting the training, but it has
been reported that craftsmen organizations in Côte d'Ivoire are weak. In addition, the executing
agency dealt with the craftsmen training in a very formal way that did not help either. FDFP spent
time in preparing a framework of training funding in the informal sector, with a two-year
experimental period which was to start toward the end of 1999, coinciding with the first closing
date of the project. A six-month extension that was granted did not allow for the implementation
of the adopted approach.

The training of displaced workers was also planned to facilitate their re-insertion in the labor
force, but it was not delivered. The main issue is that training proposals for displaced workers
presented to FDFP by the sponsors were deemed unsatisfactory in terms of quality. As a result,
FDFP decided to directly fund three sub-training projects for displaced workers that reached 72
beneficiaries as a pilot approach. This training was not part of the project.

2. Training Outreach
The overall output of this component was satisfactory. The improvement of the project's
geographic coverage and the increase of training proposals received by FDFP were due to the
performance of the outreach component. Indeed, this component played a dynamic and
paramount role, especially after the Mid-term Review (MTR) to stimulate demand for training
from beneficiaries and sponsors alike. FDFP established five regional branches in Bouake,
Korhogo, Abengourou, Man, and San Pedro. In addition, FDFP hired staff members.
Consultants were also hired to strengthen the outreach function. Sensitization activities were
undertaken in partnership with relevant local organizations (e.g., ANADER).

3. Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis
The overall output of this component was partially satisfactory. This component was executed by
AGEPE. The outputs did not fully meet the expectations of the work program. According to the
output indicators, in 4 years of operations, 36 studies should have been completed. However, at
the end of the project, only 16 studies, or 45 percent of what was planned, were undertaken.
They focused on various aspects of the labor market, such as:

l Status of information on employment
l Status of employment
l Dynamic of labor market
l Explanation of labor market mechanisms
l Development of labor market analysis instruments

As stated in section 4.1, the reasons for low performance included a high staff turnover and
difficulty networking with key partners, including the "Institut national de la statistique" and
private sector enterprises. An increase in the number of surveys and studies toward the end of the
project is an indication that AGEPE has been tackling some of its institutional problems, as
detailed in section 4.5. Other outputs of the Observatory are presented in annexes 10, 11 and 12

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic rate of return analysis was available in the SAR. The Borrower was expected to
undertake one during project implementation. An Economic Impact study was done, but was


                                                 - 7 -

limited to the analysis of the training impact on the beneficiaries' revenue and income. However,
it is worth pointing out that among similar projects in the region, this one stands out, as it is the
only one that undertook such a study. The study showed that, in some cases, the training
provided had a positive impact on the revenue and the income of beneficiaries. In tailoring, the
revenue increased from CFAF 235, 744 before the training to CFAF 254,066 after the training, or
an 8 percent increase, while the income went from CFAF 126,363 to CFAF 192, 342, or 52
percent increase. In the electronics sector, the numbers were CFAF 129,952 and CFAF 143,891
or 11 percent increase for the revenue, and CFAF 74,159 and CFAF 99,906 or 35 percent
increase for the income. Again, it was not possible to assess the specific contribution of the
training to the revenue and income increase reported.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not available in the SAR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact directly attributed to the project was substantial. The
project has positively impacted the training environment in the country. It: (i) shifted training of
labor force from the usual supply mode to the demand mode, in which the beneficiaries request
the training that better fits their needs, and (ii) permanently introduced public-funded training to
the informal sector. These are fundamental changes that the project added to the training arena.
Furthermore, it positively impacted the two executing agencies as well as various training
institutions. FDFP has changed some of its ways of doing business. For instance, it adopted a
bidding approach to select training institutions. It acquired a better understanding of the informal
sector to the point that it started funding the sector with its own resources (in the last year of the
project, FDFP allocated 20 percent of its budget to the informal sector). Allocating FDFP's funds
to the informal sector is not charity, but good business. Indeed, within the context of the global
economy, formal sector enterprises, in their struggle to cut cost, are contracting out some of their
operations to informal sector enterprises. In doing so, they often have to address quality issues,
which require training. This is an important motivation to fund training of the informal sector; it
is an worth while investment.

Through its outreach program financed by the project, FDFP set up regional offices to cover most
of the country and be closer to its clients. At its headquarters, it has restructured its operations
between a front office, in charge of production and back office, in charge of support. The
objective was clearly to improve its services to its clientele while becoming more efficient. The
front office, in fact, is a group of directorates, each specializing in socioeconomic sectors. They
are staffed with "advisors" that deal directly with the clients, explaining the training application
process and helping in the preparation of applications and the submission process. These advisors
work in close collaboration with the regional offices in order to ensure that the training delivered
meet a minimum quality standard. The back office gives the necessary technical support to the
front office in terms of administration of the FDFP programs.

AGEPE, which hosted the Observatory, pre-existed the project. Nevertheless, the project enabled
the renovation and furnishing of offices, the purchase of computers and relevant software as well
as vehicles. Thanks to the project, the required infrastructure is in place and allows AGEPE to
pursue the mission assigned to the Observatory. Staff training in appropriate fields and study



                                                    - 8 -

tours have allowed AGEPE to put together a qualified multi-disciplinary team capable of dealing
with various aspects of the labor market. However, as indicated in section 4.1, the retention of
professional staff has been a problem due to the compensation issue. Action was taken in terms
of financial incentives, as an additional monthly allowance of CFAF 100,000 is allocated to staff
members with the view to retain them. Overall restructuring of the institution to transform it into
an autonomous institution along with an improved compensation package is being investigated.
Nevertheless, this institutional restructuring came too late to have a significant impact on the
performance of the Observatory during the life of this project.

One major institutional development is linked to capacity building of training institutions that
emerged and were strengthened during project implementation. Thanks to the project, many
training centers and institutes have upgraded their infrastructure, and improved the quality of their
staff and their performance with the view toward becoming eligible as delivery outfits for the
project. Consequently, the number of certified training centers/institutes increased from 164 in
1994 to 498 in 1999, equivalent to a 25 percent annual growth. The fact that private training
providers won 75 percent of the training contracts, contrary to initial expectations, is proof of the
dynamism and quality of the private training sector, capable of meeting the demand for training.
Competition between training institutions created emulation that drove quality of training upward,
while the cost was dropping (see section 6.1).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major event that affected the implementation of the project was the military coup of 1999 and
the subsequent sociopolitical instability and disruptions that followed. The economic impact of
the situation included a severe deterioration of the macroeconomic environment of the country.
Indeed the economic growth, which was 5 percent in 1999, became negative (-2.4%) within a
year. Such a drastic change negatively impacted the relationship between Côte d'Ivoire and the
Bank, and consequently, the project suffered from a 18-month disbursement suspension. It was
equally inferred that the project also suffered from short extensions, usually 6 months, that did not
allow any meaningful advance planning, especially by the Observatory.

Operationally, the training centers and institutions were mostly in Abidjan, and their staff had to
travel to the training sites. The remoteness of some of these sites and problems in accessing them
rendered the training delivery difficult. In addition, the lack of complementary inputs, especially
water, and the illiteracy of many of the target population were serious impediments to the
implementation of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The sociopolitical instability indicated in section 5.1 led to an institutional instability due to
changes in the line ministries in charge of FDFP and AGEPE. Frequent changes in the leadership
and staff considerably slowed down the decision-making process. In addition, the government did
not demonstrate its financial commitment to the project. Indeed, although its planned
contribution was US$2.5 million, the actual disbursement was only US$837,000. FDFP had to
contribute about US$1.21 million from its own resources to compensate for the government's
shortcoming and to keep the project moving.



                                                     - 9 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The traditional mission of FDFP was to deal with the formal sector, especially with enterprises
that pay the training levy. The project introduced FDFP to the informal sector in which it did not
have any prior experience. Actions in two directions were to be taken before implementation
could start and progress. On the one hand, the demand for training had to be stimulated and
promoted. This "marketing" of the training fund took time, especially outside Abidjan and caused
delays at the start of the implementation. On the other hand, FDFP had to modify its procedures
to the new environment in which it had to operate. For instance, FDFP's Board does not meet
very often. It was, therefore, confronted with the issue of approving many small projects coming
from the informal sector. As a result, FDFP had to make an important operational change,
delegating to FDFP's Executive Secretary the authority to approve projects that do not cost more
than US$25,000 in order to avoid delays in the implementation of small, targeted training projects
in the informal sector.

FDFP also had to resolve the quality control issue with the increase in the number of training
demands. The standardization of the training packages, the use of external experts to review
some of the proposals, and pre-qualification were additional measures that "helped ensure 'quality
at entry' for the training programs.

The training component benefited from FDFP's institutional strength, its resources, and its
autonomy. On the contrary, the Observatory suffered from institutional problems that had
delayed its effectiveness for 10 months. The high turnover of staff due to an unattractive
compensation package, difficulties in collaborating with other agencies like the "Institut national
de la statistique", and inefficient partnerships with the private sector enterprises were among the
many problems that impeded the implementation of the Labor Market Information System
component of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost of the project was estimated at US$19.5 million, of which US$2.5 million was to be
provided by the Government of Côte d'Ivoire, and US$17 million funded by IDA. The project
was implemented between June 25, 1995 and June 30, 2002. At completion, 88.7 percent of the
IDA funds (US$15.08 million) were disbursed, while the national counterpart contributed US$
1.54 million or 61.6 percent of what was planned.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely. There are strong chances that the achievements of the
project as a whole be sustainable. Institutionally, FDFP, already a strong institution, was further
strengthened by the project. As discussed in section 5.3, FDFP was enriched with the knowledge
of the informal sector and was restructured accordingly. In addition, it acquired and used the
bidding approach for the selection of the training providers. Furthermore, it improved quality at
entry of the proposals presented for funding and worked hard to improve quality control during
the training. Through the project, FDFP acquired new institutional strengths. It also has
important financial resources generated by: (i) the apprenticeship levy representing 0.4 percent of
state and private enterprises' payroll, and (ii) a Continuing Vocational Training tax, representing
1.2 percent of the payroll. It collects these taxes directly, ensuring the reliability of its resources,


                                                    - 10 -

especially when the macroeconomic environment deteriorated. This is a strong sustainability
factor that kept FDFP functioning even though the macroeconomic condition was difficult. All of
these strengths render FDFP the ideal institution to continue the financing of demand-driven
training activities for the labor force in both formal and informal sectors.

The bottom line of the training component is the skills acquired by the beneficiaries. These skills
are more likely to be sustained for those who have the opportunity to apply them and to improve
them within the lifelong learning setting provided by the strengthened FDFP. This is true for the
beneficiaries who have: (i) a minimum general education level before participating in the training,
(ii) a job or the possibility to have one just after the training; and/or (iii) have the necessary
support to establish their own operation. The beneficiaries' willingness to contribute to the costs
of their training beyond the opportunity cost, transportation, board, and lodging, is a strong
sustainability factor.

Another sustainability factor is the trend of the units costs of training during the life of the project.
Before the MTR, the average cost per trainee was US$383. Following the recommendations of
the MTR, the executing agency took actions that led to a steady decline of the unit costs to
US$300 in 1998 and US$260 in 1999. Actions taken included the standardization of the training
packages and competition among training providers.

Although the Observatory did not fully live up to expectations, the institution is now in place, and
action was taken to attract and retain quality staff. Further action should be undertaken to
reinforce the sustainability of the Observatory. The institution restructuring investigation
mentioned in section 4.5 is leaning toward the establishing of an autonomous status for the
Observatory, with a view to enhancing its performance, as it could, for example, increase income
by providing paid services, which would help improve staff compensation packages.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

In its 2003 budget, FDFP has allocated CFAF 1.2 billions for the continuation of actions
undertaken during the implementation of this project. In addition, the staffing of the FDFP's
regional branches is still in place and working, wherever it is possible to do so in the current
situation. Also, the decision to increase FDFP's regional representation was made, and the
opening of an office in Daloa, in the Center-West region of the country, is being considered.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall lending performance was satisfactory. The project was identified in 1993. It
took into account the country's training strategy which consisted of improving: (i) the quality and
adaptability of the labor force; (ii) the relevance of the training to employment opportunities; and
(iii) qualification instead of certification. It was also enriched by studies undertaken by the Bank
and/or the government, as stated in section 3.5. The strategy was part of the Human Resource
Development Program which was being supported by the Bank, in accordance with IDA's CAS
for FY94-97. One weakness identified was the lack of a clear impact indicator, especially for the
first objective of the project.


                                                   - 11 -

By stressing competition among training providers and a demand-driven approach to training, the
design of the project took into account the lessons of the past which include the low internal
efficiency, thus high unit cost of the training, and weak links of the training with the labor market
requirements.

The appraisal mission in February 1994 was conducted by a Bank delegation with a good skills
mix. In addition, peer reviewers were Bank staff highly experienced in Technical and Vocational
Education and Training (TVET).

7.2 Supervision:
The overall supervision of the project is rated satisfactory. It was enhanced by the stability of the
TTLs who have been in charge of the project. Only two of them have worked on it, including one
who, for most of the life of the project, was posted in the country. Furthermore, the TTL who
prepared the project was also the first TTL to supervise its implementation. The supervision was
undertaken regularly by missions that included staff of various expertise, and have provided a
good mix of technical support to the project. They have pointed out issues which needed to be
addressed. In particular, during the MTR which took place in January 1998, FDFP was reminded
to expand the geographical coverage of the project, to "increase its responsiveness by improving
execution procedures, and to pursue efforts to control and lower the training cost". In addition, it
was recommended to "improve the Observatory's effectiveness and networking, including
short-term measures to motivate staff". The outbreak of civil unrest in December 1999 made
supervision of the project more difficult for a few months.

Deterioration of the sociopolitical environment affected the project beginning in 1999. In this
context, three six-month extensions of the credit closing date were granted to allow for
completion of project activities (see section 7.5).

The ratings in the PSRs were consistent with the performance described in the Aide-memoires.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank provided valued support to project preparation and consistently and efficiently
supervised the implementation. Its overall performance is therefore satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's overall preparation performance was satisfactory. The government was involved
in the preparation of the project. It decided to locate the training and outreach components at
FDFP (institution in charge of labor force training pre-existing the project). Also, AGEPE which
hosts the Observatory was established. In addition, studies were prepared to enrich the project as
indicated in section 3.5 above. All of these measures are proof of the government's active
involvement in project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's overall implementation performance is unsatisfactory. Indeed, the
implementation was negatively affected by the macroeconomic decline of the country. The
suspension of Bank disbursements for 18 months stalled part of the project, especially the third


                                                  - 12 -

component. In addition, the lack of payment of the Counterpart Funds would have worsened the
situation if FDFP did not step in to keep the project moving. Furthermore, the sociopolitical
instability of the country, illustrated by the Coup d'état of 1999, did not help the implementation.
Frequent changes in the leadership of line ministries constrained decision making and slowed
down the execution of the project.

Three closing date extensions, that amounted to two years in total, were requested by the
Government of Cote d'Ivoire and granted by the Bank. The first, in June 2000, was to allow the
catch up of the delay in the project execution due to institutional changes in FDFP. Also,
additional time was needed for the execution of more sub-projects, following favorable exchange
rate of the US dollar that generated extra resources. Two other requests, respectively in
September 2000 and in June 2001, were to mitigate the consequences of the disbursement
suspension that followed the 1999 military coup. In particular, the last extension allowed the
reimbursement of funds that FDFP advanced to the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. On one hand, the strong
institutional and financial base of FDFP, its adjustment to the needs of its clients of the informal
sector, and its responsiveness to the Bank's recommendations were paramount to the success of
the project implementation. In that sense, FDFP's leadership is to be commended for its vision,
its readiness to make appropriate changes, and to undertake studies, in particular an impact study.
On the other hand, the Observatory's performance was unsatisfactory during two-thirds of project
implementation. Nevertheless, FDFP's strong performance outweighed these weaknesses.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. The Borrower's good performance during
the project preparation as well as FDFP's performance during implementation explained this
rating. Furthermore, although it was difficult to measure outcomes, the outputs achieved by the
project in terms of training delivered and institutional change exceeded expectation.

8. Lessons Learned

General lessons

l Some Bank rules prevent public institutions to participate in bidding, thus limiting the pool of
    qualified organizations which could contribute to the realization of projects
l The Bank should avoid granting short closing date extensions, as this approach is
    counterproductive for project operations.

Project specific lessons

For FDFP
l An effective outreach program is key to reaching potential beneficiaries in the informal sector.
l To ensure quality of training proposals and chances that the skills acquired will be used.
    Special attention should be given to the choice of training sponsors. To that end, institutional
    sponsors and enterprises should be given priority. A modern sector enterprise sponsoring an
    informal sector enterprise or individuals is an excellent approach to guarantee job and improve


                                                 - 13 -

    productivity.
l The project demonstrated that craftsmen did not respond very well to demands for training. It
    is, thus, necessary to work with their associations to sensitize craftsmen on the role they can
    play as trainers for the less-skilled labor force and to provide additional incentives.
l Allocation of public funds on a competitive basis (i.e., with public vocational training institutes
    competing with private institutions) can reduce costs and increase responsiveness of public
    spending on skills development.
l In addition to training, "other factors are important for good outcomes. Lack of
    complementary inputs (water, credit, equipment, markets) tend to limit the impact on
    beneficiaries. This suggests the needs to link subprojects better with other projects and
    interventions."
l Existence of accountability mechanisms for a Fund would enhance its efficiency.

For AGEPE
l "To be effective, organizational design must start with the question who needs the outputs of
    the organization. The answers will certainly influence the way the structure is organized. An
    organization like the Observatory must depends on other organizations for its success ­
    gathering information from a variety of sources. Therefore, it must have enough autonomy to
    avoid the sclerosis of the bureaucracy and enough influence to get information it requires from
    others".
l "Building institutional capacity is not just training and equipment. Success requires a careful
    analysis of incentives, such as financial incentives for competent staff to join, stay and be
    productive in the organization. It should also examine incentives to establish networks and
    linkages across organizational borders".
l One major weakness that impeded the performance of the Observatory was the limited human
    capacity available for labor market analysis. A lesson to be learned is that building an
    institution like the Observatory requires a long commitment of time and effort.
l Although Observatories seem to have failed in may African countries, these organizations are
    still relevant, especially as there are no think tanks in those countries. Their success will
    depend on a careful design as advised above and on the dissemination strategy put in place.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    GOVERNMENT COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR
    THE ACTIVE POPULATION TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT (PAFPA).

    Synthesis prepared by IDA


    Generally, the report reflects the implementation of the project in the following phases:

·        Preparation
·        Execution
·        Behavior of institutional stakeholder: State, Executing Agencies, World Bank,
·        Difficulties encountered and solutions that have been conceived and implemented;
·        Lessons drawn from the project;
·        Arrangements for durability.



                                                     - 14 -

The report is sufficiently objective and explains the reasons for the low performance of the labor
market analysis component.

A. Components executed by FDFP

Some recommendations ­ focusing mostly on format ­ have been made for the French version of the
Implementation Report. On the substance:

It has been suggested to use "training of the active population" instead of workforce ­ that is a more
restrictive concept.

Detailed information has been given on the issue of training of master craftsmen, as well as on the
training of displaced workers which was a weak point in the implementation of this component of the
project. It has been explained that:

"On this topic, the FDFP has prepared a financing framework for apprenticeship in the Non Formal
Sector. The financing for pilot projects which took place towards the end of 1999 happened at the same
time as the end of PAFP according to the initial program.

On the one hand, PAFPA was coming to an end either in December of 1999, or in June 2000 in case
there had been an extension of 6 months; and on the other hand, apprenticeship projects lasts two years.
Therefore, financing from the IDA was not requested.

As for the training of displaced workers, AGEPE promoted and implemented 3 projects which were
financed on the FDFP's own resources in the framework of collective projects.

They have cost in total 42 millions FCFA and they have covered 72 beneficiaries. They have taken
place from March 1 to November 24 2000."

On the other hand, it has been specified that "the reorganization of the FDFP has been a process that
was initiated in November 1996, and that the project highlighted its relevance and achievements".

Details have been given on the scheduling of meetings of the FDFP. The Management Committee
meets four times a year, and the Permanent Commission meets every two weeks.

B. Component executed by the AGEPE:

The most important comments are indicated below.

Chapter 3: Evaluation of the component, of development objectives and of quality at entry, Section
3.1, paragraph about risks:

It would have been useful to mention, in project preparation studies, the absence of competent
consulting firms for the execution of surveys and studies on the labor market. Section 3.3, initial
component

Paragraph 2, page 6 of document: 3rd line; the sentence "However, it has not been able to put in
place ... as much for the public sector as for the private sector".

This sentence is a comment that neglects to appreciate the component from a conceptual perspective.
Instead, it judges the end result. This comment is therefore inappropriate within this paragraph.

Chapter 4: Reaching objective and results; Section 4.1, page 7, third line of paragraph 3 of the
section, the sentence: "Indeed there is no evidence that the Observatory contributed anything to the
development of the governmental policy in the areas of training or labor market"




                                                - 15 -

    This comment needs to be toned down because, without arguing about the insufficient results of the
    Observatory, we nevertheless know that the measures designed to restructure the AGEPE and to
    initiate training programs for job seekers with secondary education were taken in 1988 following the
    work of the Observatory on the state of employment in 1995, and the monitoring board for demand and
    supply of labor. On the other hand, the national plan for labor development (PNDE) and the
    employment component of DSRP are based largely on information produced by the Observatory. It is
    also, on the occasion of the seminar AGEPE/ENSEA that the Government has been sensitized for the
    first time to the work of children in Côte d'Ivoire.

    In the same paragraph, it is written: "the incapacity to create the networks with the private sectors";

    Here, it would be better to write "the difficulty in creating a network with the private sector". Indeed,
    since the Observatory belongs to a public institution, its actions have been confronted to the distrust of
    private sector operators.

    It is written: "The lack of experience in the work to be undertaken"

    This situation has certainly been a difficulty at the start; however the Observatory ended by putting
    together a multi-disciplinary team able to conduct any data collection and processing, analysis and
    dissemination in employment and training.

    Section 4.2: Results by component: "...the inability to create the networks with key partners,
    especially the National Institute for Statistics and the enterprises from the private sector";

    Concerning the INS, a collaborative process was established with this Institute on the basis of a
    convention signed in 1998. The implementation of this convention allowed access to data (employment
    component of the survey on pricing of the UEMOA and household living standard surveys of 1995 and
    1998). However, some difficulties have dampened this collaboration because of diverging interests.

    Chapter 5, section 5.1

    It would be fair to complete this paragraph by the fact that the process for awarding contracts impeded
    the initiation and execution of these activities.

    Chapter 8: Specific lessons drawn from the project

    We share the analyses of the report. That supports our proposal to create an independent
    Observatory which would associate the State and the private sector within a structure of a private
    nature.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

           Composantes/               1994        1995        1996         1997        1998        1999         2000 */     2001           2002

             Indicateurs           Eval. Act.  Eval. Act. Eval. Act.   Eval. Act.  Eval. Act.  Eval. Act.     Eval. Act. Eval. Act.    Eval. Act.


FDFP (Formation):


 - Pourcentage des ressources       15%   0%   20%   32% 25%     69%    30%    56%  30%   70%           76%                     52%
allouées à la formation dans les
groupes prioritaires (projects
collectifs)

- Pourcentage des dépenses          95% 100% 75%     68% 65%     31%    50%    44%  30%   30%
totales de formation faites en
contrats de gré à gré


FDFP (Programme de
sensibilisation):

- Participation des groupes cibles  10%   0%   30%   49% 30%     69%    30%    51%  30%   84%           80%                     66%
aux activités de formation
collective

- Pourcentage de femmes dans les 10%      0%   25%   6%   30%    31%    30%    32%  30%   42%           41%                     30%
activités de formation collectives



AGEPE (Observatoire -
Renforcement des Capacités):


- Pourcentage du personnel en       50% 33%    80%   33% 100% 58% 100% 58% 100% 50%
place (par rapport aux objectifs
fixés pour le Projet)

- Acquisition des équipements       50%   0%   100%  0%      -   50%      -   100%    -     -
(pourcentage d'acquis par rapport
aux cibles fixées pour le Projet)



- Etablissement du Centre de        10%   0%   30%   0%   60%    50%    80%    50% 100% 100%
Documentation (pourcentage
d'achèvement par rapport aux
objectifs fixés)


AGEPE (Observatoire - Enquêtes
et Analyses):

- Collection des données/            -     0     -    0      -     3      -           -
Collection (nombre d'accord avec
d'autres agences pour l'échange de
données)


- Collection des données (nombre     0     0     1    1      1     0      1     0    1     1
d'enquêtes exécutées)


 - Analyse des données (nombre       0     0     1    1      1     0      1     0    1     1
de publication des analyses
d'enquêtes)

- Etudes (Nombre d'études            1     0     5    1     10     4     10     7    10    4
publiées)


*/ Suite à la suspension des décaissements, aucun projet de formation n'a été approuvé en 2000. L'activité du FDFP a consisté au suivi et à la
réalisation des projets de formation agréés en 1999.


l AGEPE's personnel from 2000 on is in place and actions were taken to improve staff compensation
      packages in order to retain qualified staff
l Key performance indicators for AGEPE/Observatory in regard to studies carried out between 1999 and
      2002 are listed in annex 10 pages 30-31 (from item 10 to 26).




                                                                      - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                                US$ million  US$ million
I. Training, Retraining and Apprenticeship                            15.20       14.32             94
II. Training Outreach                                                  0.80         1.29           161
III. Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis                              2.40         0.94            39
IV. PPF Refinancing                                                    0.20         0.07            35

Total Baseline Cost                                                   18.60       16.62
 Physical Contingencies                                                0.20
 Price Contingencies                                                   0.70
                            Total Project Costs                       19.50       16.62
                    Total Financing Required                          19.50       16.62
Total Project Costs Net of Tax and Duties 18.6. See SAR page iii and page 25




                                                     - 18 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimates) 1/

Expenditure Category                                           ICB            NCB           Other 2/            N.B.F           Total

1. WORKS                                                                       0.08                                              0.08
                                                                              (0.07)                                           (0.07)

2. GOODS
 2. 1 Equipment                                                0.30                           0.04 a/                            0.34
                                                              (0.30)                          (0.04)                           (0.34)
 2.2 Vehicles                                                                                 0.12 b/                            0.12
                                                                                              (0.12)                           (0.12)

 2.3 Software, spare parts & accessories                                                      0.02 c/                            0.02
                                                                                              (0.02)                           (0.02)

 2.4. Furniture/Materials                                                      0.04                                              0.04
                                                                              (0.04)                                           (0.04)

3. CONSULTANCIES :
 3.1 Project Preparation and
Implementation Support                                                                         1.75                              1.75
                                                                                              (1.75)                           (1.75)

 3.2 Institutional Development                                                                0.37 d/                            0.37
                                                                                              (0.37)                           (0.37)
 3.3 Labor Force Training                                                                    14.50 e/                           14.50
                                                                                              (13.05)                         (13.05)
4. MISCELLANEOUS:
 4.1 Incremental Salaries                                                                     0.62 e/                            0.62
                                                                                              (0.62)                           (0.62)
 4.2 Travel & Per Diem                                                                        0.47 e/                            0.47
                                                                                              (0.33)                           (0.33)
 4.3 O&M, Vehicles/Equipment                                                                  0.21 e/                            0.21
                                                                                              (0.15)                           (0.15)
 4.4 Office Supply                                                                            0.10 e/                            0.10
                                                                                              (0.07)                           (0.07)
TOTAL                                                          0.30            0.12            18.20                            18.62
                                                              (0.30)          (0.11)          (16.52)                         (16.93)
1/ Numbers in parenthesis represent IDA financing.
2/ a/ Shopping, b/ shopping or IAPSO, c/ direct contracting, d/ in compliance with Consultant Guidelines, e/ in compliance with the project
Implementation Manual.




                                                                    - 19 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) 1/

    Expenditure Category                                          ICB       NCB        Other 2/    N.B.F    Total

    1. WORKS                                                                 0.05                            0.05
                                                                            (0.04)                          (0.04)

    2. GOODS
     2. 1 Equipment                                               0.25                  0.02                 0.27
                                                                 (0.25)                (0.02)               (0.27)
     2.2 Vehicles                                                            0.05       0.04                 0.09
                                                                            (0.05)     (0.04)               (0.09)

     2.3 Software, spare parts & accessories                                            0.02                 0.02
                                                                                       (0.02)               (0.02)

     2.4. Furniture/Material


    3. CONSULTANCIES:
     3.1 Project Preparation and
    Implementation Support                                                              0.69                 0.69
                                                                                       (0.69)               (0.69)

     3.2 Institutional Development                                                      0.12                 0.12
                                                                                       (0.12)               (0.12)
     3.3 Labor Force Training                                                           14.32               14.32
                                                                                       (12.89)             (12.89)
    4. MISCELLANEOUS:
     4.1 Incremental Salaries                                                           0.75                 0.75
                                                                                       (0.75)               (0.75)
     4.2 Travel & Per Diem                                                              0.07                 0.07
                                                                                       (0.05)               (0.05)
     4.3 O&M, Vehicles/Equipment                                                        0.24                 0.24
                                                                                       (0.17)               (0.17)
     4.4 Office Supply                                                                  0.006               0.006
                                                                                       (0.005)             (0.005)
    TOTAL                                                         0.25       0.10       16.27               16.62
                                                                 (0.25)     (0.09)     (14.74)             (15.08)
    1/ Numbers in parenthesis represent IDA financing.
    2/ Shopping, IAPSO, direct contracting, and consulting services.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                          Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    Bank            Govt.           CoF.     Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank    Govt.  CoF.
I. Training, Retraining,            13.83           1.53                     12.89       1.43             93.2    93.5
and Apprenticeship
II. Training Outreach                0.69           0.20                      1.23       0.06             178.3   30.0
III. Labor Market                    2.29           0.77                      0.89       0.05             38.9    6.5
Monitoring and Analysis
IV. PPF Refinancing                  0.17                                     0.07                        41.2




                                                                     - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic impact evaluation was undertaken in 1999. It was however limited to the financial
impact of the training on the beneficiaries. The evaluation covered only a limited number of
training: tailoring, electronics, agriculture and management. As indicated in Section 4.3, revenue
and income increased in tailoring and electronics for training beneficiaries. In agriculture
however, it was concluded that there was not a significant differentiation between the training
beneficiaries and the control group.

As the training targeted the poor and vulnerable groups, it may be concluded that, whatever the
immediate benefits of the training may be, the beneficiaries have a better chance to be either
employed or self employed and thus improve their economic status. Women in particular were
empowered by the training and improved the production of their cooperatives. It was also stated
that the project helped maintain rural poor in their environment, following their grouping with the
view to participate in training.

There is no available solid data to undertake a rigorous economic analysis of the project.
However, one may infer from the above remarks that the benefits of the project are real. The
comparison of the costs and benefits may be evaluated over time by monitoring the activities of
the trainees.




                                                  - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/21/1993                4    Sr. ECONOMIST (1);               S               S
                                             TRAINING SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              09/27/1993                1    ECONOMIST                        S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/14/1994                8    Sr. ECONOMIST (1);               S               S
                                             ANTHROPLOGIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST;
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

 Supervision

              12/09/1994                3    LEADER + TRAINING (1);           S               S
                                             LABOR MONITORING (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             PROCEDURES (1)
              07/18/1995                3    ECONOMIST/MIS. LEADER            S               S
                                             (1); MANAGEMENT
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             ECONOMIST/OPER.OFFICER
                                             (1)
              02/16/1996                3    ECONOMIST (2);                   S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              06/12/1996                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
                                             (1); MANAGEMENT
                                             CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                                             ECO/OPER. OFFICER (1)
              01/31/1997                2    MANAGEMENT                       S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); TASK
                                             TEAM LEADER (1)
              07/31/1997                6    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              07/06/1998                5    TASK LEADER (1);                 S               S



                                              - 22 -

                                                      ECONOMIST (1);
                                                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                      DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                                      (1); MANAGEMENT
                                                      CONSULTANT (1)
               02/15/1999                        4    MISSION LEADER (1);                        S              S
                                                      MANAGEMENT (1); AGR.
                                                      SERVICES (1); FINANCIAL
                                                      ANALYST (1)
               07/05/1999                        5    ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL                   S              S
                                                      ANALYST (1);
                                                      MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                                      (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                                      ASSISTANT (1);
                                                      PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                                      (1)
               02/11/2000                        7    HEAD OF MISSION (1);                       S              S
                                                      AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
                                                      (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                                      DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                                      PROCUREMENT/OPERATION
                                                      S (1); MANAGEMENT (1);
                                                      FINANCIAL ANAL/AUDITS
                                                      (1)
               03/08/2001                        3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                      S              S
                                                      LEAD OPERATIONS SPEC (1);
                                                      HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
               02/15/2002                        4    MISSION LEADER (ECON)                      S              S
                                                      (1); DISBURSEMENT SPEC
                                                      (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                                      (1); LITERACY SPECIALIST
                                                      (1)
               06/29/2002                        4    TTL, SR. HR SPECIALIST (1);                S              S
                                                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                      DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                                      (1); FINANCIAL MGT
                                                      SPECIAL. (1)

 ICR
               *

* No ICR mission in the field was possible due to the outbreak of a civil conflict in September 2002. A desk job
was carried out for this ICR using video conferences.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         76                                156
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              44                                 68
  Supervision                                      104                                 269
  ICR                                                 4                                 10
  Total                                            228                                 502




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Development Credit Agreement
Project Agreement
Memorandum of the President
Staff Appraisal report, 1994
Aide-memoire of supervision missions 1997, 2001, 2002
Aide-memoire and Back-to-office report of Mid-term review mission, 1998
Telex of Project closing Date, dated December 2000
Telex of Project closing Date, dated June 2001
Project Status Report: 1-22
Regional TVET Study




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Performance Ratings: 1994-2002

                               PROJECT STATUS REPORT

                                          Summary Ratings                   Components
                        DO  IP  CP Funds Pmgt Proc   Fin  Legal WID M&E Comp1 Comp2 Comp3
Seq. # 01 Aug.23,1994    S    S     1     1      NR     1    1   NR  NR
Seq. # 02 Jan. 13 1995   S    S     2     2      NR     2    2   NR  NR
Seq. # 03 Jun. 29, 1995  S    S     2     2      NR    NA    2   NR  NR
Seq. # 04 Aug. 10, 1995  S    S     2     2      NR    NA    2   NR  NR
Seq. # 05 Mar. 26, 1996  S    S     2     2      NR    NA    2   NR  NR
Seq. # 06 Jun. 03. 1996  S    S     2     2      NR    NA    2   NR  NR
Seq. # 07 Aug. 07, 1996  S    S     2     2      NR    NA    2   NR  NR
Seq. # 08 Jun. 24, 1997  S    S     S     S      NR    NA    S   NA  NA   S     S     S
Seq. # 09 Nov. 19, 1997  S    S     U     S      NR    NA    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 10 Mar. 31, 1999  S    S    HS     S      NR    NA    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 11 Feb. 01, 1999  S    S    HS     S      NR    NR    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 12 May 05, 1999   S    S     U     S      NR     U    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 13 Jun. 29, 1999  S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 14 Dec. 23, 1999  S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 15 May 22,2000    S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 16 Oct. 26, 2000  S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 17 Jan. 04, 2001  S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 18 Jun. 12, 2001  S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 19 Aug. 07, 2001  S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 20 Jan. 14, 2002  S    S     U     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U
Seq. # 21 Mar. 22, 2002  S    S    NR     S      NR    NR    S    S  S    S     S     S
Seq. # 22 Jun. 29, 2002  S    S    NR     S      NR     S    S    S  S    S     S     U




                                           - 27 -

Additional Annex 9. Sub-Projects Financed under Training of Beneficiaries


                                   Projects financed by FDFP funds
                                     Number of                         Number of    Women
    Development component                          Amount approved
                                      projects                         trainees     trainees


Handicraft                                       3         75 529 460           314         12
SMEs and Micro-Enterprises
Development                                     93      2 086 582 057        13 570      8 785


Rural Development                              133      2 868 800 710        19 959      8 653

Total                                          229      5 030 912 227        33 843     17 450




                                    Projects financed by IDA funds
                                     Number of                         Number of    Women
    Development component                          Amount approved
                                      projects                         trainees     trainees


Handicraft                                      24        761 190 523         3 530      1 139
SMEs and Micro-Enterprises
Development                                    171      4 126 432 862        26 448     13 293


Rural Development                              200      4 509 359 398        32 176     18 264


Industrial and tertiary development              4        130 814 172           538        300


Total                                          399      9 527 796 955        62 692     32 996




                                        All projects combined
                                     Number of                         Number of    Women
    Development component                          Amount approved
                                      projects                         trainees     trainees


Handicraft                                      27        836 719 983         3 844      1 151
SMEs and Micro-Enterprises
Development                                    264      6 213 014 919        40 018     22 078


Rural Development                              333      7 378 160 108        52 135     26 917


Industrial and tertiary development              4        130 814 172           538        300


Total                                          628     14 558 709 182        96 535     50 446




                                                 - 28 -

Additional Annex 10. Summary Table of Studies by the Observatory


N°     Title Of Study      Contracting Party     Completion      Cost          Results        Assessment Of Results
                                                  Date Or                                           And Effects
                                                   Period
1  Employment,            Observatory           May-Decem Recurrent      An internal report  This Study was used to
   occupations and                              ber 1995     costs       was presented; it   programme activities of
   training in Côte                                                      has not been        the Observatory.
   d'Ivoire: Inventory of                                                published.
   information sources
   and needs (1995)
2 The Employment          Observatory ,         April-Sept   Data 1500   The Study was       This study was the
  Situation in Côte       with the assistance   1996         000         approved and 1000   primary source of
  d'Ivoire in 1995        of André                           Recurrent   copies were         information on the
                          ROSANVALLON,                       costs; for  published           employment situation
                          ILO Consultant                     assistance, (Publication N°1)   from 1990
                                                             see ILO
3 1995 Employment         Observatory,          April-Sept   Recurrent   The Study was      Following this study, the
  trends chart            with the assistance   1996         costs; for  approved and 1000 Minister asked AGEPE to
                          of                                 assistance, copies were        initiate a training
                          ROSANVALLON,                       see ILO     published          programme for job seekers
                          ILO Consultant                                 (Publication N°2)  of the Lower Sixth Form
                                                                                            level ( niveau de la 1ère )
4 The employment          Observatory           1997         Recurrent   The Study was       This study provided
  situation in government                                    costs       approved and 1000   information on the
  services in 1997                                                       copies were         distribution of staff and
                                                                         published           made projections on
                                                                         (Publication N°3)   retirement. It was well
                                                                                             received at the Ministry
                                                                                             of the Civil Service.
5 The Employment          Observatory,          1997         Recurrent   The Study was       Information document on
  situation in Abidjan in with the assistance of             costs;      approved and 1000   the full unemployment
  1996                    ENSEA                              ENSEA :     copies were         situation in Abidjan in
                                                             800 000     published           1996
                                                                         (Document N°5)
6 The employment          Observatory           1997         Recurrent   The Study was      This document was
  situation in the modern                                    costs       approved and 1000 produced with data from
  private sector in 1996                                                 copies were        the financial data base.
                                                                         published          The study indicates the
                                                                         (Document N°6)     distribution of jobs in the
                                                                                            Ivorian modern sector by
                                                                                            spc, nationality etc.
7 Determinants of         BAMBA                 1997         600 000     The Study was       This study helps to
  demand for labour in                                                   approved and 1000   establish the link
  the modern private                                                     copies were         between investment, the
  sector in Côte d'Ivoire                                                published           market and manpower
                                                                         (Document N° 7)     increase.
                          Observatory           1998         Recurrent   The Study was       This publication gives the
8 1996 Employment                                            costs       approved and 1000   structure of applications
  trends chart                                                           copies were         for employment,
                                                                         published.          vacancies and
                                                                         (Document N° 8)     placements. The trends
                                                                                             chart has become a
                                                                                             reference for assessing
                                                                                             labour market
                                                                                             movements.
                          Observatory           1998         Recurrent   The Study was



                                                       - 29 -

9 1997 Employment                                            costs          approved and 1000
   trends chart                                                             copies were
                                                                            published up to Year
                                                                            2000 (Document N°
                                                                            9)
   Modern private sector Observatory ; with     November     Recurrent                            This study was of
10 employment in Côte     data collected by     1998-May     costs;         The Study was         interest to the Ivorian
   d'Ivoire : manpower    Hermes et Associés 1999            Data           approved and 1000     employers' council,
   structure and trends in                                   collection     copies were           which distributed copies
   the first half of 1998                                    costs :        published             to its members.
                                                             2 176 000      (Document N° 11).
11 Employment              National College of  1999                       This study was         The study was well
   determinants,           Statistics and                    27 500 000    discussed at a release received by researchers.
   competitiveness,        Applied Economics                               seminar; it has not
   contract and cost of    (ENSEA).                                        been published.
   labour, performance of
   enterprises in Côte
   d'Ivoire
12 Setting up a monitoring RESTEK               Sept. 98 ­   48 372 000     The study helped to The findings of this study
   mechanism for           CONSULTANT           Sept. 99                    gain skills for       are helping in the current
   graduates of technical                                                   following up          effort to set up a
   and vocational                                                           graduating students. mechanism to monitor
   education                                                                The Observatory is graduates of vocational
   establishments and                                                       currently using the   education establishments
   universities                                                             method.               and the university.
13                         Observatory,         1999         Recurrent      The Study was         This is the main product
   Employment situation   with the assistance of             costs;         approved and 1000     of the Observatory and
   in Côte d'Ivoire in    INS for data on                    Data           copies were           the source of updated
   1998                   ENVM-98                            collection     published             employment information
                                                             cost :         (Document N° 12).     in Côte d'Ivoire.
                                                             48 500 000
                           Observatory                       Recurrent
14 1999 Employment                                           costs          The Study was
   trends chart                                                             approved and 1000
                                                                            copies were
                                                                            published up to Year
                                                                            2000 (Document N°
                                                                            13).
15 Identifying training   CEPRASS               October 1998 Initial Cost : The service provider Interim reports available,
   areas with employment                             to      42 000 000     submitted two         as well as information
   prospects                                    March 1999 final cost :     progress reports; the that could be used for
                                                             24 000 000     approach initially    other studies, though not
                                                                            proposed was not      consistent with the
                                                                            followed. The         purpose of the study.
                                                                            science committee
                                                                            terminated the
                                                                            contract.
16 2000 Employment         Observatory          December     Recurrent      The study was
   trends chart                                 2001         costs; and     approved but not
                                                             printing and   published
                                                             distribution
                                                             costs
                           Observatory          2002         Recurrent      500 copies published
17 Unemployment and                                          costs          (Document N°14)
   under-employment
   among youths in Côte
   d'Ivoire
18 Audit of accounts of    Deloitte and         1995-2002    Initial Cost : Regular audit reports
   PAFPA project           Touche                              21 285 000 on accounts of



                                                       - 30 -

   component "C"                                            Final cost : project component
   AGEPE                                                    40 500 000   C
N°      Title Of Study       Contracting Party Completion       Cost            Results        Assessment Of Results
                                                Date Or                                               And Effects
                                                 Period
    Employment trends
19  chart for 1st, 2nd, 3rd Observatory        2003         Recurrent    Studies conducted in
    and 4th quarters of                                     costs        2002, not approved
    2001                                                                 and not published
                            Observatory        2002-2003    Recurrent
20 Analysis of youth                                        costs        Study approved but
   employment                                                            not published.
   programmes in Côte
   d'Ivoire
21 Employment and           Placide Zougrana   1998         ILO          Study conducted
   under-employment in                                                   under workshops of
   traditional agriculture                                               the AGEPE/ENSEA
   in Côte d'Ivoire                                                      seminar . It was
                                                                         published as a
                                                                         restricted
                                                                         distribution
                                                                         document
                                                                         (Document N°15)
   Manpower options for     Diomandé Kanvaly   February     1 500 000    Study conducted
22 Ivorian industry in a                       1998                      under workshops of
   context of trade                                                      the AGEPE/ENSEA
   globalisation                                                         seminar and 1000
                                                                         copies were
                                                                         published.
                                                                         (Document N°4)
23                                                                                            This publication was
   Public sector            Observatory        2000         Recurrent    500 copies were      appreciated by officials in
   employment                                               costs        published            charge of vocational
   opportunities in 1999                                                 (Document N°16)      training, requests for
                                                                                              further research on
                                                                                              specific aspects are
                                                                                              expected .
24 Modern sector            Observatory,      March ­ July 4 710 000     500 copies were      The employers' council is
   manpower structure and with the            2000                       published            still showing interest in
   trends in 2000           participation of                             (Document N°17)      this publication.
                            Hermes et Associés
25                          Observatory        2001         Recurrent    500 copies were      The series will be
   Public sector                                            costs; and   published            continued.
   employment                                               printing and (Document N°18)
   opportunities in 2000                                    distribution
                                                            costs
26  Conclusions of          Observatory/ENSE                Recurrent    Five workshops       AGEPE/ENSEA seminars
    AGEPE-ENSEA             A                               costs        were organized ;     were a forum for
    workshops                                                            workshop documents communication and
                                                                         were compiled and    exchange on employment
                                                                         are distributed on a issues in Côte d'Ivoire.
                                                                         request basis.       They also publicised the
                                                                                              Observatory




                                                      - 31 -

Additional Annex 11. Summary Table of Mission Reports by Consultants


1 Assistance mission    CARLOS           1995        ILO     Mission report available to the      This report supported
  for the formulation   GARCIA                               Observatory                          activities at the initial stages
  of an                                                                                           of the Observatory. The
  implementation                                                                                  program was not followed
  program for the                                                                                 entirely as no account of
  Observatory                                                                                     partner needs and
                                                                                                  implementation difficulties
                                                                                                  was made.
2                       André            April - May ILO     Mission report available to the      Mission to assist and provide
  Assistance mission ROSANVALLON, 1996                       Observatory                          on-the-job training to
  for publications of   ILO Consultant                                                            management staff of the
  the Observatory                                                                                 Observatory. This report
                                                                                                  restates the guidelines for
                                                                                                  producing an employment
                                                                                                  situation document and the
                                                                                                  employment trends chart. It
                                                                                                  provides technical bases for
                                                                                                  these two products
3 Evaluation mission P. MARTIN           10 to 14    ILO     Mission report which analyses        This report helped to refocus
  on the impact of the BIT-POLFORM       and 20              the organization, functioning        the Observatory's program of
  Observatory                            March 1997          and products of the Observatory.     activity by stressing on the
                                                             This report stressed that the        development of partnerships.
                                                             Observatory needed to rely on
                                                             partners like INS and ENSEA
4 Mid-term review       Paul-Pierre      2 - 12      ILO     Mission report which analyses the This report was used in
  of the Observatory    VALLI,           December            organization, functioning and        discussions on project
                        ILO Consultant   1997                products of the Observatory.         component "C" during the
                                                                                                  mid-term review.
5 Assistance mission Maïten BEL          1 - 12      ILO     Mission report entitled "directory This report served as
  for compiling the     Consultant       October             of occupations and professions"      background material for
  directory of          working for ILO  1996                includes: context for updating a     producing the directory of
  occupations and                                            directory and proposals on           occupations and professions.
  professions                                                methods for updating the
                                                             directory.
6 Assistance mission Patrick CORNU,      2 times 2   ILO     Mission report indicating that the The contents of this report
  for setting up a data Statistics Unit, weeks from          Observatory had purchased            were perceived as being too
  base                  ILO              26 March to         adequate materials and software      general for the requirements
                                         4 April and         to set up a data base and stating of concrete assistance in a
                                         from 15 to          general principles for a data base . data base project; using
                                         26 May                                                   resources from this mission,
                                         2000                                                     the Observatory acquired
                                                                                                  internet facilities accessible to
                                                                                                  all research officers and
                                                                                                  created its own web site.
7 Final project review Carlos GARCIA,    2 times 2   ILO     Mission report which examines:       This report served as support
  mission               ILO              weeks from          the perception of the role and       for proposing a new and
                                         26 March to         usefulness of the Observatory, the independent observatory,
                                         4 April and         statute of the Observatory, criteria with the status of an
                                         from 15 to          to be considered in attaching the association.
                                         26 May              Observatory, the types of
                                         2000                functioning expected.




                                                      - 32 -

 Additional Annex 12. Summary Table of Training Courses

 Agency for the Study and Promotion of Employment
 Employment, Occupations and Training Observatory
 PAFPA component "C" Labor market monitoring and analysis

Type of   Title of training  Beneficiaries       Duration     Subject and venue         cost      Impact on project and its
training                                                                                          future
          Designing          Godé bi Zou         10 days      Content of employment     See ILO   Knowledge acquired is
          employment         Djagoné Vléza                    appraisal statement,                applied to publications for
          appraisal          Niamké Eba          Abidjan      content of trends chart,            which the training was
          statements and     Moulot Thakré                    research method and                 organized
          employment trends Goué bi Gohi                      information processing
          charts             Gnangbo Djékou                   technique, drafting plan.
                             Dago Zéphirin
                             Kouakou Amankoua
          Employment         Godé bi Zou         5 days       Training conducted by     See ILO   This training was the
          directory, job     Djagoné Vléza                    Mrs. Maïten Bell under              starting point for work on
          nomenclature and Niamké Eba            Abidjan      assistance for the                  job content description.
On-the-jo classification     Damonoko Lucien                  production of the Ivorian
b training                   Goué bi Gohi                     employment and
                             Gnangbo Djékou                   occupations directory.
                             Dago Zéphirin
          Qualification,     Godé bi Zou         15 days      Terminology and major     See ILO   This training was conducted
          evaluation and     Bosson Alla         October 1997 concepts of various                 under assistance for the
          classification of  Niamké Eba          Abidjan      methods.                            production of the
          jobs               Damonoko Lucien                                                      employment and occupations
                             Aguia Solange                                                        directory. It increased the
                                                                                                  understanding of concepts.
          Use of information Besssé              3 weeks 1996 CDS ISIS software         See ILO   Training included in ILO
          management         Koffi konan                                                          assistance for setting up
          software                                                                                AGEPE documentation
Formal    Drafting terms of Niamké Eba                        Formulating               1 821 830 This course provided
training  reference          Moulot Thakré       February     specifications, organizing          research officers (chargés
courses                      Goué bi Gohi        1996         consultations, drafting            d'études) with skills
                             Gnangbo Djékou      Bingerville  terms of references                necessary for designing and
                             Dago Zéphirin                                                       drafting study missions to
                             Edi Tchimou                                                         be outsourced or conducted
                             Damonoko Lucien                                                     by the Observatory.
                             Konan Narcisse
Formal    Computer courses Research officers and March 1997   Training on use of        2 800 000 Training which is very
training                     secretaries         Abidjan      software:                           useful to research officers in
courses                                                       Word7 and Excel7                    working with texts.
          Computer courses Godé bi Zou                        Managing Windows 95
                             Djagoné Vléza       10 days      files,                    7 700 000 Training which usefully
                             Niamké Eba          Abidjan      Data processing using               completed the skills of
                             Moulot Thakré                    Excel,                              research officers
                             Bosson Alla                      SGBD Access
                             Edi Tchimou
                             Kouakou Amankoua
          Computer courses Dago Zéphirin         25 days      Windows NT                5 500 000 Qualifying training for two
                             N'zué Félix                      Fox pro                             network administrators and
                                                              Access                              data processing specialists.
          Project planning   Kassi kakou         4 weeks      Operational planning,               Practical training imparting
          and supervision                        14 June -12  budget planning,          9 687 200 skills. This training was
                                                 July 1997    MS-project, cost planning           useful for better
                                                 Montréal     and monitoring, human               organization of services and
                                                              environment issues and              follow-up of activities.



                                                         - 33 -

                                                               team management,
                                                               performance indicators
         Survey data          Dago Zéphirin     1st August     Survey data processing     600 000   Course offered by ENSA.
         processing                             1996                                                The training is useful for
                                                                                                    conducting studies.
                                                Abidjan
         Labor market         Dago Zéphirin     10             Labor market theories,               Training conducted by
         analysis methods     Edi Tchimou       non-consecuti review of concepts,         4 127 000 cabinet STRAT with
                              Godé bi Zou       ve days        method for preparing                 lecturers from Cocody
                              Djagoné Vléza     from 7 July to survey report plans                  University . This training
                              Koné Pénatine     31 August                                           helped participants to better
                              Kassi Kakou       1999                                                understand the concepts
                              Kouakou Kouamé                                                        already in use and to
                              Kouakou Amankoua Abidjan                                              examine them further
                              Assi Marcelin
Formal   Administrative       Godé bi Zou       from 25 to 29 Administrative and                    Course offered by the
training Drafting             Djagoné Vléza     Oct. 1999      legislative instruments;             National School of
courses                       Niamké Eba                       information, survey and              Administration and adapted
(Cont'd)                      Kouakou Kouamé    5days          injunction documents       2 250 000 to the requirements of
                              Kassi kakou                                                           management staff of the
                              Nuama Ekou        Abidjan                                             Observatory. This training
                              Koné Pénatien                                                         has made the presentation of
                              Damonoko Lucien                                                       notes and reports easier.
                              Kouakou Amankoua
                              Assi Marcelin
         Employment           Kouakou Kouamé    5 days         General aspects of
         program evaluation Kassi kakou         from 22-26     employment policies        (ILO)     This training provided
                              Nuama Ekou        Oct. 2001      Evaluating public                    management staff of the
                              Koné Pénatien                    employment policies                  Observatory and two
                              Kouadjo Jean      Bingerville    Presenting public                    management staffs of the
                              Kouakou Amankoua                 employment programs and              Employment Promotion
                              Caroline Ouédraogo               projects                             Directorate with skills
                              Godé bi Zou                      Case studies, evaluation             required for carrying out one
                              Djagoné Vléza                    reports                              of the missions so far
                              Edi Tchimou                                                           unaccomplished.
         Training             Godé bi Zou       From 22 Nov. Study of the firm, study of            This course provided the
         Counselors on        Damonoko Lucien   to 10 Dec.     labor, job evaluation      ILO       Observatory with a team of
         labor qualification, Kouakou Kouamé    1999           methods, qualification               qualified staff for all types
         evaluation and job Kassi kakou                        analysis and job                     of job analysis and
         classification                         Gd. BASSAM evaluation procedure,                    classification in a firm,
                                                               designing a job                      activity sector or at the
                                                               qualification system, etc.           national level

         Financial                              Turin          The project cycle and                Although it came at the end
         management and                         From 10 au     main project documents,              of the project, this training
         disbursement in      Kassi kakou       21 June 2002 disbursement procedures, ILO           helped to increase the
         projects financed                                     project management                   understanding of project
         by the World Bank                                     reports, periodic financial          management procedures and
                                                               reports, annual financial            mechanisms. It arms the
                                                               statement, audit contract,           beneficiary with skills for
                                                               common problems in                   managing any project
                                                               project financial                    financed by the World Bank
                                                               management
         Mali                 Konan Narcisse    From 18 to 22 Workshop on employment 765 000
                                                Dec. 1995      problems and vocational
                                                               education trends in Mali

         France and Italy     Kassi kakou       From 20 Oct. Visit to Regional                      It increased awareness of the
                                                to 9 Nov.      Observatories at           ILO       value of the data base,



                                                        - 34 -

                                           1996          Grenoble, Lyon and                    compiling an employment
                                                         Marseille in France;                  directory and a
                                                         Visit to CEREC and                    nomenclature of jobs and
Study                                                    ANPE;                                 occupations. It was very
trips                                                    Visit to ILO international            useful for continuing
                                                         training center in Turin              activities of the Observatory
         Dakar             Kassi kakou                   Seminar on structural       450 000   It provided an opportunity to
                                                         adjustment policies and               discuss the meaning of
                                                         employment. Regional                  structural adjustment
                                                         Seminar with specialists              programs and understand
                                                         on employment issues                  the link between
                                                         from West Africa                      retrenchments and
                                                                                               development of employment

         Bamako            Kassi kakou     12-19         Visit to the Observatory    2 174 400 A study trip which turned
                           Koné Pénatien   September     in Mali,                              out to be very useful for
                           Assi Marcelin   1998          experience-sharing,                   confidence building in
                                                         Meetings between                      management staff of the
                                                         research officers and                 Observatory in respect of
                                                         officials of both                     tasks to be accomplished.
                                                         Observatories, discussions
                                                         on achievements,
                                                         procedures for collecting
                                                         data and disseminating
                                                         findings




         Cotonou           Kassi kakou     from 13 to 17 Meetings between                      This trip provided the
         Visit to the      Dago Zéphirin   July 1998     officials and research                inspiration for a `study on
         Observatory in                                  officers, visit to the      1 289 600 the informal sector in Côte
         Benin and                                       UNDP Office, contact                  d'Ivoire'.
         experience-sharing                              with ELAM team
Study    Tunis             Kassi kakou     10-11 June    Size and organization of              This conference enabled
trips    International     Kouakou Kouamé  1999          observatories, activities to          discussions on pertinent
(cont'd) conference on                                   be sub-contracted,          3 373 400 issues concerning
         observatories                                   monitoring sub-contracted             observatories. Our
         organized by the                                surveys, data collection,             participation was useful to
         Government of                                   data processing, analysis             the discussions.
         Tunisia                                         and circulation,
                                                         nomenclatures and
                                                         norms.
         Quebec            Kassi kakou     From          Study trip to structures in           A trip which provided a
                           Damonoko Lucien 25 Aug. to    Quebec responsible for                wealth of experience for
                                           3 Sept.       vocational training and               graduates monitoring
                                           2000          labor market information              surveys and labor market
                                                         Visit to the Directorate              information
                                                         General for vocational
                                                         and technical training at
                                                         the Ministry of Education,
                                                         and
                                                         Visit to Emploi-Québec.




                                                   - 35 -

- 36 -

