Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2637 IVC
Project Agreement
(Labor Force Training Support Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
Dated September 12, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2637 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA FORMATION 
PROFESSIONNELLE (FDFP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
The Republic of Cote d'Ivoire (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twelve million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,100,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that FDFP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) by a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
FDFP, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to FDFP on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS (C) FDFP, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FDFP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and training practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and FDFP shall otherwise agree, FDFP shall carry out 
Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.03. FDFP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisi- tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A and B of 
the Project.
Section 2.04. FDFP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Financing 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FDFP shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Financing Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) FDFP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement 
and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
FDFP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A and B of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by FDFP 
of its obli- gations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FDFP
Section 3.01. FDFP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and training practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. FDFP shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
Page  3
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial 
practices.
Section 3.03. FDFP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FDFP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b)
FDFP shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
(and semiannually for all expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure) 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of FDFP 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms and the Association shall promptly notify FDFP 
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter 
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to 
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
Page  4
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For FDFP:
Maison de la Formation
20 B.P. 1068
Abidjan 20
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FDFP, or by 
FDFP on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the President of FDFP's Management Committee or such other person or 
persons as the President of the Management Committee shall designate in writing, and 
FDFP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA FORMATION
   PROFESSIONNELLE
By /s/ Moise Koumoue Koffi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
Implementation
1.
FDFP shall implement Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the 
Operations Manual referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.
FDFP throughout the Project's implementation shall inform the Association of any 
Page  5
proposal to modify its tripartite management system.
Monitoring and Supervision
3.
FDFP shall monitor the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project and shall:
 
(i)
submit to the Association at the end of each quarter of the 
calendar year a 
progress report on the implementation of the Project 
in a format approved by 
the Association;
 
(ii)
organize and carry out, not later than January 31 of each calendar 
year, a 
joint review meeting with the Borrower and the 
Association. The quarterly 
progress reports shall provide 
the basic inputs for these meetings. In 
addition, at each 
annual review meeting, FDFP shall present a work program and 
budget 
for the implementation of the Project during the coming fiscal year, to 
the Borrower and the Association for approval; and
(iii)
thereafter carry out such work program.
 
4.
FDFP shall fully cooperate in the midterm review as envisaged by Section 3.05 of 
the Development Credit Agreement. In particular FDFP shall provide all relevant 
information required for the evaluation of Parts A and B of the Project and promptly 
implement all actions included in the program of actions referred to in that Section.
