Z-V/            <5s 1-£ (,: / -  / 6-/V
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No.  12229-TU1N
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(ASIL)
OCTOBER 29, 1993
MI CROGRAPH I CS
Report No:  12229 TUN
Type: SAR
Middle East and North Africa Region
Naghreb and Iran Department
Agriculture Operatiois Division
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1993)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (D)
US$1.00       a 0 0.9
0 1.00        = USS1.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT (or TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIC              Resource User's Association
Association d'intdr6t collectif
APIP             Fisheries Port Authority
Agence des ports et des installations de peche
ANPE             National Agency for Environmental Protection
Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l'Environnement
ARAPPI           Agrarian Reform Agency for Public Irrigation Schemes
Agence de la r6forme agraire dans les perimetres publics irrigues
ASAL             Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Pret A l'ajustement dans le secteur agricole
ASIL             Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
Pret d'investissements au secteur agricole
AVFA             Agricultural Extension and Training Agency
Agence de la vutgarisation et de La formation agriccles
DNA              Uational Agricultural Bank
Banque nationale agricole
CIF              Cost, Insurance and Freight
CRDA             Regional Comissariat for Agricultural Development
Comuissariat regional au developpement agricole
CRGR             Rural Engineering Research Center
Centre de recherche de genie rural
OCES             Directorate of Soil and Water Conservation
Direction de conservation des eaux et du sol
DGEGTH           General Directorate of Studies and Major Hydraulic Works
Direction gen6rale des etudes et des grands travaux hydrauliques
DGFE             General Directorate of Finance and Incentives
Direction gen6rale du financement et des encouragements
DGGR             General Directorate of Rural Engineering
Direction generale du genie rural
DGPA             General Directorate of Agricultural Production
Direction generale de la production agricoLe
DGPDIA           General Oirectorate of Planning for Agricultural Development and Investment
Direction generate de la planification pour le developpement et des investissements
agricoles
DGPEA            General Directorate for Fisheries and Aquaculture
Direction g6nerale de la peche et de l'aquaculture
DGRE             General Directorate for Water Resources
Direction g6nerale des ressources en eau
DHPV             Directorate for Veterinary Public Hygiene
Direction d'hygiene publique veterinaire
DSA              Directorate of Animal Health
Direction de la sante aniale
EEC              European Economic Community
CommunautE Economique europeenne
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
Taux de rentabilite economique
FA               Force Account
en regie
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
Produit national brut
GOT              Government of Tunisia
Le Gouvernement de Tunisie



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HIDAOA           Inspection and hygiene unit for snimal food products
Unite d'hygibne et inspection des denr6es atfmentaires d'origine animate
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
Appel d'offres international
INSTOP          National Fisheries Research Institute
Institut national scientifique et technique d'oceanographie et des p6ches
IRESA           Uational Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education
L'lnstitut de ta recherche et de Ilenseignement sup6rieur agricoles
IRVT            Tunisian Veterinary Research Institute
Institut Tunisien des recherches v6t6rinaires
Kfw              Kreditanstalt fOr Wiederaufbau
LCD              Local Competitive Bidding
Appel d'offres local
LS               Local Shopping
Consultation de fournisseurs a l'echelon national
NCO              tedJerds Cap Son
RDOA             inistry of Agriculture
Ninist*re de t'agriculture
NTASAP           Nedium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
Programme d'ajustement du secteur agricole a moyen terme
OEP              National Livestock and Pasture Agency
Office de l'elevage et des piturages
ONAS             National Sewerage Authority
Office national d'assainissement
oMP              National Fisheries Agency
Office national des p6ches
O&M              Operations and Maintenance
Exploitation et entretien
PCR              Project Completion Report
Rapport d'achevement du projet
PORI             Integrated Rural Development Project
Projet de developpement rural int6gre
ND               Hi fl Dams
Barrages collinaires
SECADENORD       Northern Water Canal Company
Socift6 d'exploitation du canal et des eaux du nord
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
Releve des d6penses
SONEDE           National Water Company
Societe nationale d'exploitation et de distribution des eaux
STEG            National Electricity Company
Societ6 tunisienne de l'electricite et du gaz
STIL             Tunisian Milk Industries Company
Societ6 tunisienne des industries laiti4res
SIC              Soil and Water Conservation
Conservation des eaux et du sol
UTICA            Tunisian Union for Industry, Commerce and Handicraft
Union tunisienne de l'industrie, du commerce et de l'artisanat
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only i ni the - arforMance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bane authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVE
Loan Sununar
Borrgers          Republic of Tunisia
Amount;            US$120 million equivalent
Tennss             17 years, including 5 years
variable interest rate
P- otect
Descrigtion:       The central objective is sec
management of public resourc
finance for public investmen
through commitments to finan
annual investment budgets fo
progress in implementing a D
actions and policy reforms n
the selected investments. S
(i) irrication and water-use
operation of new and existin,
Tunisia moves towards full mi
resources. The ASIL would f.
irrigation perimeters associi
tubewells, modernization of i
surveying and monitoring, an4
policy actions are additiona:
application of a binomial tam
user associations; (ii) natuJ
ASIL would support soil erosi
to encourage fishing along tl
and to permit meeting EEC imj
agro-pastoral improvement of
include implementation of thi
replacement of force account
conservation works by contrac
enterprises, and a review of
encourage fishing in the nort
Production - the ASIL would a
surveillance network through
campaigns and development of
promote quality standards by
programs aimed at genetic imp
monitoring. Policy reforms i
veterinarian services, and in
vaccinations, laboratory serv
insemination; and (iv) land c
fragmentation constrains rain
limiting the economic viabili
access to credit and by exace:
would support development of ,
voluntary consolidation of fr



i    -
locations, capacity strengthening of the agency to be
responsible for the pilot program, and rural infrastructure
in the pilot areas. Policy reforms consist of expanding the
legal basis for government interventions in rainfed areas.
Finally, to achieve greater efficiency of public investment,
the Government's planning and implementation capacity would
be strengthened.
Estimated Project Costs:        (all figures in US$ millions)
Local         Foreign          Total
Dams and Conveyance          20.5            13.i            34.2
Resettlement                  0.2             0.0             0.2
Irrigation Perimeters        14.8            31.2            46.0
Hydraulic Studies            10.1            14.9            25.0
Rural Potable Water          19.0            26.4            45.4
Livestock                     3.3            17.2            20.5
Fisheries                    10.4             5.8            16.2
Soil and Water               11.8             8.1            19.9
Conservation                  0.3             0.2             0.6
Land Reform                   1.8             1.2             3.0
other
Total                       92.2\2          118.8           211.0
\i Includes about US$39 millon for taxes an duties.
Financina Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
World Bank                 1.2         118.8        120.0
Government                91.0           0.0         91.0
Total Project Costs       92.2         118.8        211.0
Estimated Dlsbursement:
IBRD Fiscal Year
1994    1995    1996      1997      1998
Disbursements
Annual              5      25       30        30        30
Cumulative         5       30       60        90       120
Economic Rate of Return:       Minimum 10 percent when applicable
Poverty Cateaorvs              Not applicable
Environmental Catecorv:        B
Staff Aporaisal Renort:        No. 12229-TUN
Map No.:                       IBRD 25108



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISTh
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Table of contents
PA00 No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . 1
A.   The Macroeconomic and Sectoral Context  . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B.   Agriculture in the Economy  . ... .     .  .  .  .  .....   .   . .   2
C.   Agricultural Productlon .d..to...................  2
D.   Agricultural Sector Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
S.   Agricultural Sector Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
F.   Bank Involvement in the Sector - Experience and Strategy  . . 4
II.  THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . * . . . . .   6
A.   Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . . .   6
B.   Origin, Rationale and Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
C.   Investment Component  .....  .        ............    9
D.   Sub-Sector Reform Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
E.   Institutional Strengthening Component . . . . . . . . . . .  26
F.   Organization and Implementation . . . . . .  .  . . . . .  30
B.   Costs Procur   .  .  .            . .  .  . .       ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
IT1. TELOAN        . . . 9.  . . ......e0             0                 31
A.   Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      . .     .      31
C.   Procurement .  . . .  .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
C.   Disbursements . .. . . . . . . . . . . ..                    34
D.   Accounting and Audits. .. ... ..............   36
S.   Reporting - Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . .  36
F.   Benefits    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
G.   Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . .      . . . . . . . .  38
H.   Dam Safety Aspects  . . . . . . . . . ............40
I.   Risks     . . . . . . . . . .             .            .    41
IV.  AGREEMNTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  41
Text Tables
Annexes
1. Development Action Plan
2. Supervision Plan
3. Project Cost Summary
4. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5. Key Project Indicators
Map IBRD 25108
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Tunisia
in June, 1993, composed of Messrs. S. Mink (Task Manager), W. Van Tuijl, L.
Msellati (Bank), B. Mosnier de Rochechinart, J. Gastaldi and M. Sandoz
(Consultants).  Legal and disbursement assistance were provided by Mnes. C.
Pardiffas and M. Van Praag, respectively. Secretarial support was assured by
Mmes. D. Bosseler and J. Welzenbach.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Macroeconomic and Sectoral Context
1.01      The Government began its structural adjustment program in 1986 and
has made enormous progress in liberalizing the Tunisian economy since that
time. Continuing progress is being supported by the Economic and Financial
Reforms Support Loan (Loan 3424-TUN). The Government successfully concluded
an extended arrangement with the IMF in July 1992.
1.02      The program for removal of trade and price controls is advancing
and is expected to be completed in 1994. Quantitative restrictions on
imports, which protected over 90 percent of manufacturing and agricultural
imports in 1987, apply now to less than half of production and will fall to
5 percent of production in late 1994. Import duties were compressed from a
range of 5-235 percent to a range of 15-43 percent in 1987. Producer prices
and distribution margins are also being decontrolled and legislation was
passed in 1991 freeing entry and providing legal status to domestic marketing
activities. After 1994; trade and price controls will only apply to
subsidized items of basic consumption, e.g. wheat, and to imports of a few
luxury items. Competitiveness of traded goods has been maintained through a
relatively constant real effective exchange rate since the 1986 devaluation of
the Dinar by 17 percent. Budget deficit reduction that has taken place within
constraints imposed by a structural decline in oil earnings and increase in
debt servicing has been achieved mostly through reductions in expenditure.
These have come mostly in restraint in consumer subsidies, transfers to loss-
making public enterprises, and in the operating budget rather than in the
investment budget, and the public budget for agricultural investment has grown
in real terms. Financial markets are gradually evolving from simple
commercial and investment lending, tightly controlled by the authorities, to a
more diverse set of financial instruments. Prior authorization requirements
for loans have been removed, and interest rates gradually freed, although
subsidization of agricultural sector lending rates still keeps them about one
percent below market rates.
1.03      The Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (KTASAP)
also began in 1986, and has been supported by two Bank Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loans (ASALs) in 1986 and 1989. Policy reforms in support of the
program have included: (i) parastatal reform to divest numerous activities of
the Cereals Marketing Board, the National Oil Office and the National
Livestock and Pasture Agency to the private sector; (ii) pricing adjustments
for cereals and milk to align them more closely with world prices;
(iii) reduction of input subsidies; (iv) liberalization of meat and milk
imports; (v) withdrawal of government agencies from a number of agricultural
support services where private sector alternatives exist; and (vi) reduction
of direct budges support for subsidized credit.



-2
B. Agriculture in the Iconomv
1.04      Agriculture generates 13-15 percent of Tunisian GDP, employs nearly
one out of every three workers in the labor force, and contributes about
ll percent to total export earnings. These averages mask high annual
variability, since with agriculture traditionally and predominantly rainfed,
the sector faces severe production risks linked to the climate. Only
5 percent of cropped land is Irrigated, although this area contributes a much
higher share of sector value added. Agricultural products are essential
inputs into processing industries, which contribute to one-fifth of
manufacturing value added.
C. Acricultural Production
1.05      Only 8.4 million ha out of a total land area of 16.4 million ha are
suitable for agriculture and grazing. The growing season, largely dependent
on highly variable rainfall, ranges from 210 days in the north to 75 days in
the south. The northern of three ecological zones represents 25 percent of
the total land area, receives up to 1000 mm of rainfall, and is the most
fertile and important area for both rainfed and irrigated agriculture. The
central zone covers 15 percent of the land, and because of erratic and sparse
rainfall, relies mainly on tree crops dominated by olive plantations, and on
low yield cereal cultivation and rangeland. The southern zone is mostly
desert receiving less than 200 mm of rainfall, and depends on extensive
grazing and isolated cropping in irrigated oases.
1.06      Cultivabie land amounts to 5 million ha, with 25 percent planted to
cereals, 35 percent to tree crops, 10 percent to forage crops, fruits and
vegetables, grain legumes and industrial crops, and 20 percent left fallow.
Livestock is a major activity, with the majority of the national herd's
624 thousand head of cattle and 6.5 million small ruminants raised on small
farms. Reserves of arable land are negligible, and the progressive shrinking
of rangeland as cropping expands has resulted in overgrazing and exacerbated
soil degradat$on and erosion. To counteract the production uncertainties of
irregular rainfall, development of irrigation has received high priority. The
potential for intensive irrigation is estimated at roughly 406,000 ha, but
currently only some 303,000 ha or scarcely 6 percent of total cultivated area
is under irrigated crops. Limits to irrigation expansion are primarily
defined by increasing scarcity of water resources.
D. Agricultural Sector Institutiongs
1.07      Significant changes in sector institutions are being implemented to
improve management of public resources and better serve the needs of the
private sector. In the public sector, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has
pursued a strategy of decentralization since the establishment of Regional
Commissariats for Agricultural Development (CRDAs) in 1989, which in 1993 are
managing 46 percent of public investment in the sector. Parastatals under the
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture have refocused their activities to
concentrate on their central functions of planning, policy review and
formulation, and coordination. Thus the Cereals Marketing Board, National
Oil Board, and National Livestock and Pasture Agency have disengaged from



activities especially direct production and marketing, while the National
Fishery Authority has been replaced by a Fisheries Port Authority (APIP) and a
policy unit in the MOA. Cereals harvest purchases, milk collection, and crop
input marketing is now largely in the hands of cooperatives and private
companies. Moreover, the MOA is increasingly carrying out its investment
program by contracting with the private sector rather than with its own
personnel.
1.08      The MOA is reorienting its relationship with private sector
organizations so as to encourage and strengthen them to take lead roles in
promoting sub-sectors' development. Hence steps have been taken to improve
the financial autonomy of professional associ&tions that serve citrus, date,
vegetable, and other crop producers, processors and marketers. In addition,
in order to develop sound market norms, legislation has recently been passed
that places greater responsibility on Federations representing as-o-industries
in the Tunisian Union for Industry, Commerce and Handicraft (UTICA).
1.09      one of the Ministry of Agriculture's intentions under the 8th Plan
is tc rely more on resource user groups in planning, carrying out, and
financing the operations and maintenance of investments. Progress is most
advanced for rural potable water investments, but user groups are also being
promoted and relied upon in the forestry, soil conservation, and irrigation
investment programs as well. Recent or planned legislation in these areas is
strengthening the legal framework and financial mechanisms for operation of
these user groups. These groups are expected to play an important role in
improving the selection of appropriate investment approaches, defraying the
cost of investment operation, and ensuring the durability of the investment
once put in place.
1.10      Research and extension institutions are undergoing changes to
address problems related to a proliferation of institutions. These include
the lack of centralized work programming and budgeting linked to sector
priorities and the lack of coordination between research and extension.
Research is undergoing a strengthening of organizational, managerial,
monitoring and evaluation capacities under a reconstituted national institute
of agricultural research and higher education (IRESA). Extension and training
have been reorganized with a new central agency (AVFA) overseeing a system of
regional extension services.
E. Aaricultural Sector Investments
1.11      Annual investment in agriculture increased by 2.5 percent annually
in real terms over 1980/82-1990/92. Growth occurred in both public and
private investment, with the latter claiming an ever larger share of the total
and reaching 50 percent in 1992 compared with 38 percent a decade earlier.
The Government's efforts to promote private investment in agriculture will
continue through implementation of the unified investment code that is under
preparation.
1.12      Planned public investment in the agricultural sector Curing the 8th
Plan (1992-96) is expected to increase by two-thirds the 7th Plan outcome in
real terms, with several important shifts in emphasis. Water sub-sector



.4-
investments, which accounted for two-thirds of 7th Plan public investment, are
expected to decline to 41 percent during the 8th Plan, entailing as well a
marginal decline in real terms. This is due to the near completion of the
largest dams foreseen under the Northern and Central Tunisia Master Water
Plans, with mostly smaller infrastructure works remaining to be undertaken.
Public investment in natural resource management is undergoing the largest
increase in budgetary outlays, with forestry, soil and water conservation
increasing from 14 percent during the 7th Plan to 40 percent in the 8th Plan.
1.13      Since 1991, when decentralization of pablic sector activities
within the MOA effectively began, management of the public investment budget
has shifted sharply towards the CRDAs. Between 1990 and 1993, the CRDA share
of the public investment budget increased from 11 percent to 46 percent,
primarily involving irrigation and rural potable water development, research
and extension, forestry and soil and water conservation. In these areas,
CRDAs are taking on increasing responsibility for investment planning, design,
procurement, and monitoring of project execution. This rapid growth in
investment responsibility will require adjustments in the organization and
staffing of CRDAs.
1.14      In a broader budgetary context, public investment has comprised
roughly half of total public agricultural expenditure in recent budgets. Net
recurrent expenditures account for another 25 percent and subsidies for the
remaining 24 percent. On a per farmer basis, total budget erpenditure comes
to about D 1,000 annually. Since this amount is greater than the agricultural
income of m&ny farmers, it is critical to ensure the quality and effectiveness
of these resource outlays in raising agricultural productivity, efficiency and
stability. one concern is that nearly two thirds of recurrent expenditures
are for salaries and wages, thereby constraining resources remaining for
operating expenses and contributing to their inadequate level in relation to
investments in the budget. Moreover, the recurrent budgets of CRDAs have held
steady at just under half of the public recurrent budget, and declined in real
terms, despite a rapid increase in investment budget responsibility.
Agricultural subsidy costs in the budget are split between production
subsidies, which are declining, and private investment subsidies in the form
of capital grants, which are increasing. The bulk of these capital grants are
made under Integrated Rural Development Projects (PDRIs), which are managed by
the General Commissariat for Regional Development in the Ministry of Planning
and Regional Development, and financed partly by resources available from
external donors at concessional rates.
P.  Bank Involvement in the Sector - Exnegience and Strategy
1.15      Bank group lending to Tunisia began in 1967.  To date, 102 loans
and credits have been made, supported by US$4.4 billion Bank and IDA funds,
net of cancellations. In agriculture, 16 projects have been completed and
five are being implemented, totalling US$573.4 million of Bank group lending.
These includes two fisheries Projects (FY72 and 80), both completed; seven
irriaation groiects, of which four are completed -- Irrigation Rehabilitation
(FY75), Sidi Salem Multipurpose Irrigation (FY78), Southern Irrigation (FY79),
Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development (FY82), and Central Tunisia Irrigation
(FY83) -- and two are ongoing projects-Irrigation Management Improvement



.5.
(FY86) and Gabes Irrigation (FY86); four aaricultural credit Dro-icto (FY72,
77, 81 and 88), all completed); three area develonment groiects, cooperative
Farm (FY67), Northwest Rural Development (FY82) and Northwest Agricultural
Production (FY85); a Grain Storage and Distribution Project (FY82, completed);
and ongoing Forestry Develooment (FY88) and Agricultural Research and
Extension (FY91) projects. A Technical Assistance Proiect (FY83, completed)
included an agriculture comporent. Recent lending includes two Aarlcultural
Sector Adiustment Loans (ASAL I (FY87) and II (FY 89)), the first
satisfactorily completed and the second ongoing. The Bank is also supervising
the IFAD financed Sidi Bouzid Irrigat&on proiect (FY84).
1.16      Performance of Dank-financed projects in agriculture has generally
been satisfactory. The PCRs of the Irrication Projects show that the economic
rates of return of the projects typically surpass appraisal estimates mainly
due to higher than anticipated value of output, and better use of existing
land and infrastructure resulting from more reliable water supply. However,
the establishment of irrigation water users' associations to asoume
responsibility for O&M activities and costs has been slow, monitoring and
evaluation are often inadequate and cost recovery Las been insufficient. The
irrication MAnacement Improvement Protect was designed to address these
problems, but has had to be extended by two years to make up for delays before
loan effe4tiveness, followed by management problems, and In 1989 by a
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture which merged the functions of
the irrigation development agencies into the CRDAs. The Project is, nowever,
progressing well under new management since 1991. The PCRs of the first three
Credit Protects note that disburoements were affected by competition with
Government credit schemes offering loans at lower subsidized interest rates
and by lack of profitability of agricultural operations. The PCR of the
Fourth Credit Proiect underscored the need to continue institutional and
financial improvements at the National Agricultural Bank (DNA) level through
increased interest rates, the phasing-out of Government-subsidized credit
schemes, recovery discipline and BNA reorganization on a decentralized basis
to allow it to reach a larger number of farmers and gradually assume full
autonomy for all credit decisions. Preparation of a National Rural Finance
Reform Proiect is tackling these issues, and is intended to provide support to
private sector investment in tandem with the present Loan's support to public
sector investment.
1.17      The area develonment nroiects illustrated the difficulty of
bringing independent farmers together under any system of collective decision
making (cooperatives) when they are asked to forego some rights in return for
inadequate economic incentives. The Northwest Rural Development Project,
although mainly achieving its targets for infrastructure construction, made
unsatisfactory progress on the nature conservation and agricultural production
components, due mainly to lack of producer group promotion, land tenure and
use patterns, organizational deficiencies and staff shortages. The lessons of
this project, particularly the need to involve beneficiaries in sub-project
selection, execution and maintenance, are being incorporated in the follow-on
Develooment of Northwest Mountainous Reaion and Natural Resource Preseryation
groject and in the recently approved Second Forestry Development Proiect. A
different set of shortcomings resulted in only 40 percent ($5.8 million) of
the originally approved loan amount of the Northwest Aoiricultural Production



Prtoect being disbursed by loan closing in May 1992. The Project Buffered
from top-down management and frequent turnover of staff and management. The
Project also revealed that for extension programs to work and be sustainable,
they need to be tailored to the needs of the various categories of farmers who
should actively participate in demonstrations of new technologies and training
programs.  The Acricultural Research and Extension Prolect is carrying out a
nationwide reorganization of research and extension services.
1.18      The first ASAL was completed successfully and fully disbursed in
October 1989. The second ASAL was a hybrid, and the investment component put
in place many of the procedures that would continue to be used for the ASIL.
A design problem with the ASAL II arose because of the link between
disbursement for investments and progress on unrelated policy components.
Passage of a pesticide handling law -- a condition of the second tranche
release of both the quick disbursing and investment component -- was delayed
and prevented disbursement under the investment component until a loan
amendment was agreed to de-link the two components; the investment
disbursement profile is returning to normal, and the second tranche was
released in Pebruary 1993 with the implementation of the pesticide law.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
2.01      The central objective of the project would be to support sectoral
growth through assuring availability and improving management of public
resources. This objective is comprised of three strategic elements. First,
the project aims to allocate resources so as to reorient and support public
investment in activities where the State has a justifiable role to play.
second, policy reforms and key actions are anticipated to improve the economic
impact of public investments through the incentive framework affecting either
the direct use of the investment or the undertaking of complementary private
investment. Third, institutional strengthening, primarily in the MOA, is
planned to improve the planning, preparation and implementation of this
investment.
B. Oricin. Rationale and overview
Or$atin
2.02      The proposed project builds on the foundation of the ?TASAP begun
in 1986 and supported through two ASALS (1986 and 1989). Substantial policy
reforms have occurred under this program. In addition, the second ASAL was a
hybrid operation that included a US$34 million investment component to the
normal quick disbursing policy component. The investment component supported
investments such as development of tubewell irrigation, construction of a
small hill dam, creation of rural potable water points, development of oasis
agriculture and national monitoring and analysis of groundwater resources.
Experience with this investment component of the ASAL II demonstrates the
Ministry of Agriculture's capacity in key sub-sectors to enforce adequate



investment criteria, prepare projects, and follow sound procurement and
disbursement procedures in the implementation of projects. It also helped
establish the institutional mechanisms for annual consultations and internal
MOA coordination which continue to be relied upon to carry out the ASIL.
Rationale
2.03      Following Bank financial support for public agricultural investment
through the ASAL II, and analytical support to assist the Government
strengthen its 8th Plan investment strategy through an Agricultural
Expenditure Review (1991), the Government has requested the Bank's support for
the ambitious investment program identified in this Plan. The decision to
pursue a "time-slice" approach is consistent with the overall Country Strategy
and macro-economic objectives, particularly regarding fiscal accounts. The
proposed project also follows up on findings of the Agricultural Expenditure
Review within sub-sectors as well as recommendations for overall strengthening
of the planning and execution of public investments.
2.04      The positive impact that the investment component of the ASAL II
has had on improving MOA selection and preparation of investments -- most
evident for the hill dams and rural potable water programs -- demonstrates the
value of this type of instrument. Moreover, the MOA is shifting investment in
favor of natural resource management, for which technical and analytical
methodologies for investment design are complex and standards need to be
improved. The Bank's involvement through this project would be effective in
assisting the MOA to develop approaches that would improve public investments
and policies affecting natural resources.
Overview
2.05      Investment Comoonent.  Planned MOA investments for the remaining
years of the 8th Plan are shown by sub-sector in Table 2.1. The proposed
project would not be engaged in all these sub-sectors; in some the Bank is
already involved through separate projects such as the Research and Extension
Project and the Second Forestry Development Project. The ASIL would covers
* irrigation and water-use efficiency investments - hill dams and
tubewells and associated small-scale irrigation infrastructure,
modernization or rehabilitation of existing irrigation perimeters,
groundwater monitoring and analysis, and rural potable water;
* natural resource investments - small-scale fishing ports along the
northern coast and other port improvements including required investments
to meet quality norms needed to maintain access to European markets; and
for soil and water conservation in priority regions;
* animal health and production investments - national animal vaccination
campaigns, strengthening of the animal disease monitoring network
including the veterinary laboratories, and pasture and genetic improvement
programs of the National Livestock and Pasture Agency; and



-8-
* land consolidation - rural infrastructure and logistics in pilot
project areas to support a program of parcel consolidation.
Table 2.1: Summary of 8th Plan Public Investments, 1994-96
(constant 1990 D, thousands)
1994       1995        1996         Total   Percent
Dams and Conveyances          15,000      34,000     55,000       104,000    16.7
lrigation Perimders           22,200      28,200      36,100      86,500      13.9
Drainage                       1,500       2,000      2,500        6,000      0.9
Water Studies                 12,000      16,000      21,000      49,000      7.8
Rural Potable Water           13,500      18,000      23,000      54,500      8.7
Livestock                      3,800       4,500      5,000       13,300      2.1
Fisheries                      7,700      14,500      24,000      46,200      7.4
Trec Crops                     1,000       1,300      2,000        4,300      0.7
Researoh                       2,500       3,500      4,400       10,400      1.7
Exuension                      1,000       2,000      5,000        8,000       1.3
Forestay                      38,700      45,00G     53,000       136,700     21.9
Soil and Water
Conservation                 29,900      31,700      29,900       91,500     14.7
Oter                           2,500       5,000      6,500       14,000      2.2
Total                        151,300     205,700     267,400     624,400     100.0
Note: The first two years of the 8th Ptan, 1992-93, wilt have been compteted prior to the proposed ASIL.
Source: Ninistry of Plan and Regional Development
2.06      Policy Component.  This agenda, which is detailed in the
Government's Development Action Plan (Annex 1), includes the followings
* increased irrigation water tariffs to improve recovery of costs of
operation and maintenance:
* livestock - privatization of veterinary service delivery; improved cost
recovery of publicly provided veterinary services; and fostering of
livestock sector institutional reform to support the privatization
program;
* fisheries - analysis of the effectiveness of and development of an
action plan to reform the existing incentives to promote fisheries
development in the North and establishment of an action plan;
* soil conservation - submission to the Chamber of Deputies of the draft
Soil and Water Conservation Code; adoption of action plans for the
progressive implementation of soil conservation activities through
contracts with farmers and private enterprises rather than through force
account;



* land reform - use of indirect incentives and strengthening of the
legislative framework for land tenure reform to encourage land
consolidation.
2.07      Institutional Strenothenino Component.  This component would
coneist of:
* establishing a centralized mechanism for physical and financial
monitoring of all ongoing investment projects being undertaken under MOA
and CRDA supervision;
* the analysis of needs and establishment of an action plan for
completing the decentralization of MOA activities to the CRDAs;
* improvements in the investment planning process of MOA Directorates
responsible for livestock, fisheries, soil conservation and water
efficiency investments;
* support for emerging resource users groups by CRDAs through the
analysis and development of an integrated and multi-disciplinary
institutional framework;
* initiation of environmental review of projects, consisting of
environmental impact studies and mitigation plans for hill dams and small
fishing ports, and environmental reviews for irrigation projects; and
* support for the implementation of institutional and operational plans
regarding pilot projects for land consolidation in rainfed areas.
C. Investment Comnonents
2.08      Investments to be supported by the project would be selected from
line items of the annual investment budget after passing through the Tunisian
review process. This review ensures conformity with sectoral objectives and
strategies defined in the 8th Plan. Selection for financing by the Loan would
occur through annual consultations between the Bank and MOA prior to budget
finalization, during which the Bank would confirm that the chosen projects
fulfill criteria for economic viability, social objectives and environmental
impact. A minimum economic rate of return of 10 percent would be applied in
the selection of hill dams, irrigation perimeter creation or rehabilitation,
fisheries ports, to the regional soil and water conservation plans from which
selected components are to be supported, and to tubewells above a
predetermined size. Cost effectiveness criteria have been established for
smaller tubewell projects and rural potable water investments. Any
resettlement required by sub-projects in the hill dam program would
necessitate preparation of a resettlement program that is satisfactory to the
Bank prior to commitment of Loan resources for such sub-projects. Similarly,
for sub-projects that require environmental impact studies and mitigation
plans, these would need to be prepared, approved by the National Agency for
Environmental Protection (ANPE), and found satisfactory by the Bank in order
for Loan resources to be committed to such sub-projects. To finalize the
project investment program for 1994, final sub-project documentation required



10 -
would be submitted to the Bank no later than April 30, 1994, while for
following budgets, such documentation would be submitted before the end-
September prior to the budget year under preparation.
Water Resources Develoipment and Management
2.09      Given the crucial role of water in Tunisia's economy, the country
has given high priority to the development of this resource over the last
20 years. This has resulted in the construction of 17 large dams, major
conveyance works, 22 small dams, 62 ponds, 1830 deep tubewells, more than
100,000 open wells, and development of public irrLgation perimeters. These
have been undertaken within the framework of the Master Plans for Northern and
Central Tunisia, whose realization was initiated in 1977, and which are
currently being updated with completion of the KfW-financed EAU 2000 planning
study. As Table 2.2 shows, the present infrastructure controls about
65 percent of the theoretical potential (4,355 Mm3) or 74 percent of the
assumed technically controllable volume (3,825 Mm3). Approximately 90 percent
of the water diversions and extractions are for agriculture and 10 percent for
potable and industrial water. Of the 26 percent of technically controllable
volume still to be developed, much has high unit costs.
2.10      Surface water resources present the greatest potential for
development. Shallow groundwater is practically all utilized and
overexploited in a number of areas. Deep groundwater still has potential for
further exploitation. National and regional water balances are presently
being prepared up to the year 2010 under the EAU 2000 study, including as well
the establishment of a comprehensive computerized data bank and a Geographical
Information System (GIS).
Table 2.2: National Water Balance
Current
Potential    Technakally
Controlklale   ActuaIy     Present       Balance
(a)          b)          Controlled    Use
(c)        (d)     (eM       s
SWface Water     2630         2100"t          1400       670      700       33
Shallow
Aquifers        586           586            560        560      26        4
Deep Aquifers
1139          1139           850        850     289       25
TOTAL            4355          3825           2810      2080     1015      26
Noe:  (1) Volume technicaly controllable for use, estimated at 80 percent for surfaoc water and at 100 percent for
ground water.
(2) (c)=D &b)-)
(3) percet '(e)I(b
2.11      Intensive irrigation is currently practiced on about 303,000 ha
(6 percent of arable lands), with water constraints limiting the potential to



* 11 1
an estimated 406,000 ha. In addition, supplementary irrigation is practiced
on 91,000 ha, out of a potential of 168,000 ha (Table 2.3).
2.12      Modern irrigation technologies ouch as sprinkler and drip are
practiced on about 45,000 ha (about 11 percent of the irrigated area) most of
which are located in public irrigation schemes.  On the remainder of the
irrigated lands traditional surface irrigation methods are still being applied
with on-farm irrigation efficienciez in the order of 40 - 45 percent. The
main constraint to better water use on the farm is the lack of well-tested
irrigation technologies that are adapted to the prevailing socio-economic
conditions of the small farmers, taking into account all relevant factors such
as investment and operation and maintenance costs, skill level of the farmers,
potential yield and water savings, and market values of crops.
2.13      Water Resources Development.  Tunisia plans to exploit nearly the
totality of its water resources by the year 2000, in order to satisfy the
growing demands for potable and industrial water and irrigation and provide
for inter-annual regulation to limit the negative effects of droughts. To
achieve this goal the 1991 - 2000 program includes the completion of one large
dam (Sidi El Barrak), 20 medium scale dams, 203 small dams, 1000 ponds, 1760
tubewells and 98 wastewater treatment plants. This would permit the
exploitation of about 1,430 Mm3 at a cost of about D 2 billion (Table 2.4).
Completion of this program would bring the exploitation rate of Tunisians
water resources to about 93 percent (well above the so far assumed technically
controllable level).  The EAU 2000 study will make recommendations for water
Table 2.3: Irrigable Areas
Waxer Source                  1991           Polemnia
Intensive Irriation                          303 i  h             ha
Large, medium, and hil dams                  99000 "       157 000
Ponds (lacs colnaires)                       1 000 "        15 000"
Treated vastewater                           5 000"         28 000
Tubewels (deep)                              589000         62 000"
Open wels (shallow)                         126 000        130 000'
Spnngs adintemtnt streams                    14000"         14 00"
Suvlementarv lition                           91000            8000
TOTAL                                        394 000 ha      574 000 ha
resources planning up to the year 2010, including recommendations for regional
water transfers and water mobilization and saving measures such as increasing
dam heights, upgrading gravity irrigation systems to sprinkler/drip systems,
wastewater reuse, desalinization and other approaches.
2.14      Demand Management.  Most of Tunisia's efforts in the water sector
have so far been concentrated on providing adequate supplies to meet demand.
In contrast to the potable water sector where increased water cha gee have
reduced water demand appreciably, efforts in reducing water demand in the
agricultural sector have been relatively limited. This has mainly been due to



12 -
low water charges, the still limited use of modern irrigation technologies,
the lack of efficient methods and procedures for estimating and communicating
canal and project water requirements, the lack of crop water norms for
various irrigation technologies, insufficient research in appropriate
irrigation technologies, the absence of an effective lrrigation extension
service and hence the limited knowledge of the farmers of soil/water
management, including irrigation scheduling techniques. The project would
support the increase of water charges (para 2.47), improvement of methods and
procedures for estimating water demand In Northern Tunisia (para 2.30), the
preparation of a national campaign for water conservation at the farm level
(para. 2.70) and increasing reliance on water users, groups for retailing of
irrigation water (para. 2.79).
2.15      Water Investments. The 8th Plan anticipates (i) completion of five
medium-scale dams and starting construction on another five dams;
(ii) construction of about 100 small hill dams; (iLL) 400 ponds; (iv) new
irrigation development and rehabilitation on about 20,000 ha (including
irrigation under planned dams, ponds, about 400 tubewells, and through spate
irrigation); (v) tile drainage construction on about 3,000 ha; and
(vi) implementation of 373 rural water supply schemes for 670 villages.
Emphasis is also given to the surveying and monitoring of groundwater and
other hydrological data collection; some 300 survey wells and 400 piezometers
are planned.
2.16      Hedium-Scale Dams and Convevors. The ASIL would not finance the
medium-scale dams. Three main conveyors to be constructed either have
financing or will not be initiated until at least 1997.
Table 2.4: Water Resources Mobilization Program (1991 - 2000)
how"etwe               NO.   (aWi'yr)     D miion    Dim'
Large & Medium Dams      21        739          923       1.25
Small Dams              203        110          400       3.64
Ponds                   1000        50           87       1.74
Spate Irrigation        4000        43           38       0.88
Tubewells
- Exploition           610        288           55       0.19
- Reconnaissanec       1150                    170
Wastewfter Treatment Plants
98       200           285      1.43
TOTAL                     -        1430         1958      1.37
2.17      Hill Dams (HD) and Related Irrigation Systems. The main purpose of
these hill dams is to mobilize water resources in upper watersheds of rural
areas in the north and northeast. This will permit agricultural development



- 13
and thus provide employment and help stem the migration to urban areas. The
water from the reservoirs is used for irrigating food crops and also tree
crops during the initial year. of orchard establishment. A number of HDs are
designed principally for groundwater recharge, while others will also provide
flood control. Moreover, during periods of severe drought they provide an
important emergency water supply for livestock. A typical HD would consist of
an earth dam about 12 - 20 meters high (on average 14 - 15 meters), with an
average net storage capacity of SOO,000 - 600,000 m3. The gross storage
capacity takes into account estimated sediment storage over the useful life
(about 30 years). A low cost open spillway ia designed for a 1 in 100 year
flood. The size of the irrigated area is typically 50 - 100 ha. A pipe
through the body of the dam serves for flow diversion during construction and
as outlet for the low pressure irrigation network. This network is provided
with outlet valves for every 5 ha to which farmers may attach their own pumps
and sprinkler systems. In order to maximize the useful life of the
investments in HDs a soil conservation program would be carried out in the
catchment area of each HD.
2.18      The present rate of construction starts is about 10 HDs per year,
with implementation for a HD averaging two years. The design is carried out
by expatriate consultants under contract with DGEGTH and implementation is
undertaken by private contractors. The design of the irrigation command areas
is the responsibility of the CRDAs under the overall control by the DGGR.
Typical costs for a HO are about D 1.1 million and about D 300,000 for the
irrigation system (D 3,000 - 4,000/ha). The objective is to increase the
implementation rate to about 20 HDs per year. The economic viability of the
HDO is very site specific. Each HD would therefore be subject to a
feasibility study, and to be eligible for financing by the loan, the ERR
should be at least 10 percent. A sufficient number of sites would be
evaluated to ensure a sufficient number which meet established criteria, even
allowing for a high drop out rate. The ASIL is expected to finance some
20 HDOs.
2.19      Some benefits of HDs -- such as groundwater recharge -  remain
quantifiable only in rough terms. A monitoring and evaluation system would
therefore be set up to monitor costs and benefits so that project analysis and
selection can improve. Also an impact evaluation would be carried out by
October 31, 1995. To enhance the possibility of early benefit generation,
efforts would be made to better coordinate the planning and implementation of
the HDs and the irrigation command areas by the DGRTH and the CRDAs,
respectively.
2.20      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that government would
employ a panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank, tot (i) review for all HDs
exceeding 10 meters in height or having a gross storage volume of more than
2.5 million m3, the concepts of the dame and their associated structures
including spillways and the adequacy of their design; (ii) conduct reviews
during final design and construction; and (iii) review the adequacy of
maintenance, inspection and emergency plans.- Assurances were obtained that
X   This otld be consistent with the reqirements of 0HS No. 3.80.



-14 -
modifications of design, construction, and procedures for emergencies,
maintenance and inspection acceptable to the Bank as recommonded by such
reviews would be carried out as a requirement for commitment of ASIL resources
to identified dams in any budget year. Periodic inspections after
construction would be carried out by DGEGTH. The panel would initially
consist of two individual experts with expertise in civil engineering
(including soil mechanics and hydraulics), geology and hydrology.
2.21      Tubewell Irrioation.  Tubewell irrigation would be extended in all
parts of the country where groundwater resources are still available but
especially in the Central and South regions, where groundwater is generally
the only water resource available.  Tubewells are generally drilled to depths
of 80 - 400 meters and provide yields in the order of 10 - 30 1/, sufficient
for irrigation of command areas of 50 - 100 ha. The distribution system
consists normally of low pressure pipes. Irrigation on the farm is mostly by
furrow or basin method. The cost for a tubewell is in the order of D 150,000 -
300,000 and total cost for a typical scheme about D 400,000. Groundwater
exploration is undettaken, and authorization for exploitation of the aquifer
given, by the General Directorate of Water Resources (DGRE) and designs are
prepared either by the CDRA or local consultants on behalf of the CRDA.
Individual or groups of tubewells and related irrigation works costing less
than D 5,000/ha would not have to be subjected to an economic analysis to be
eligible for financing. Those with a cost exceeding D 5,000/ha but less than
D 500,000 in the aggregate would be subject to a simplified procedure for
routine economic analysis. Those with an estimated total cost of more than
D 500,000 would be subject to a feasibility study. A minimum ERR of 10 percent
would have to be reached for the latter two cases. The ASIL is expected to
finance some 30 tubewell irrigation schemes.
2.22      Irrication System Rehabilitation.  Irrigation perimeters scheduled
for rehabilitation during the 8th Plan, including but not necessarily limited
to the Utique perimeter (1,200 ha) in Bizerte region would be eligible for
financing under the ASIL, subject to confirmation of economic viability.
2.23      Groundwater Survevino and Monitoring.  Materials and equipment for
some 150 survey wells and 200 piezometers would be financed under the ASIL to
assist with the inventorying and monitoring of deep groundwater resources.
The average survey well is about 300m deep and the average piezometer 1SOm.
This investment is increasingly important as part of a program to ensure that
tubewell irrigation, whether due to private or public investment, does not
result in groundwater depletion.
2.24      Rural Water Supply. Eighth Plan objectives are to serve an
additional 343,000 rural inhabitants with potable water. Rural water supply
projects with more than 2,500 beneficiaries are the responsibility of SONEDE
and those serving a smaller population are implemented by the DGGR of MOA.
The MOA distinguishes two categories of projects: (i) Rural Works and
(ii) Rural Development Projects. Only projects under the first category would
be eligible for financing under the Loan and should have investment costs per
capita of less than D 320 (1993 prices) for a total population of
1,500 inhabitants or leas and D 270 per capita for a population exceeding
1,500 inhabitants. Projects in the second category achieve social and



- 15 -
political objectives of the Government but are less cost effective. About
6S percent of the 8th Plan budget for rural water supply is scheduled for the
Rural Works category.
2.25      Rural water supply projects are designed to provide water at rates
of 21.5 liters per capita per day (l/c/d) for adults, 5 l/c/d for children,
5 l/c/d for sheep and 30 l/c/d for cattle and camels, but total consumption
for livestock is limited to 40 percent of total supply. Individual schemes
include a tubewell with pump or other type of water intake (spring or pumping
station at open water surface), storage reservoir, disinfection facilities,
pipe distribution system and communal watering points. Some 100 projects with
an average cost of about D 100,000 (1993) are programmed to be financed from
the ASIL in 1994; however, average cost per project for the overall program it
closer to D 250,000 per project (1993).
2.26      Imoroving Water Use Efficiencv:  Sgstem Oneration in Northern
Tunisia.  About 60 percent (2,600 Mm3) of the country's total annual water
yield and 80 percent of its surface water originates in the North which also
hoots the majority of the population. A complex integrated network of storage
dams is in place consisting of nine dams with a total reservoir volume of
1,212 Mm3, public irrigation schemes irrigating 114,000 ha and several main
water conveyors of which the most important one is the 120 km Medjerda Cap Son
(MCD) Canal that carries potable water for, inter alia, Tunis and Sfax and
irrigation water for various irrigation schemes including those in the Cap
Don. The core of the infrastructure is Sidi Salem dam with a volume of
555 Mmn. The dams also provide for hydro-power generation and flood control.
2.27      Irrigation water supplies are generally underutilized due to a
variety of factors, but include the relatively short experience with
irrigation compared to the South, the relatively large farms, absentee land
ownership and lack of institutional support and marketing mechanisms for more
remunerative crops. Despite this underutilization of irrigation waters,
serious problems were faced during the drought of 1988-89 with bottlenecks in
supply in some areas.
2.28      Responsibility for the management of this integrated water supply
system, including the allocation of water, rest with the MOA which has
entrusted this task to the State Secretariat for Hydraulics and its DGEGTH.
MOA has delegated the operation of the MCB Canal to SECADENORD - an autonomous
public enterprise - that sells bulk raw water to the National Water Supply
Company (SONEDE) and the CRDAs managing the public irrigation schemes. SONEDE
is owned by Government and operates under the supervision of the MOA. DGEGTH
controls the large and medium sized dams. An autonomous publ-c agency, the
National Sewerage Authority (ONAS) is in charge of sewerage and sewage
treatment. Control over the groundwater resources rests with the DGRE. There
is scope for improvement in this organizational structure and its operating
procedures, especially in dealing with emergencies such as floods and
droughts.
2.29      GOT's policy is, in parallel to its improved water resources
planning through the EAU 2000 studies, to implement the necessary measures to
improve the management and operation of the Northern Tunisian water system,



-16-
through, inter alia: (i) a better estimation of water demands for irrigation
command areas and water supply schemes; (ii) improving the allocation of the
water resources available between sectors and within sectors; (iii) improving
the present system of water measurement and the use of modern (computerized)
techniques for the management of operational data; (iv) review and improvement
of operational policies and procedures; (v) preparation and use of system
operation models; and (vi) implementation of related institutional measures.
2.30      DGEGTH would require the assistance from expatriate consultants to
prepare and implement these activities, which could be implemented in a three
year program and for which detailed terms of reference were prepared by the
appraisal mission. However, during 1994 DGEOTH staff will be fully occupied
with institutionalizing the EAU 2000 study so that implementation could not
start before 1995. In addition, there is a need to coordinate the various
ongoing and proposed activities: the EAU 2000 planning results, recent
Tunisian proposals for studies of the water sector presented during appraisal,
the preparation of a proposed Water Sector Loan and a Bank-sponsored water
sector assessment. A meeting has been proposed with multi-donor participation
in discussions on the Tunisian strategy in the water sector and coordination
of donor assistance. Although grant financing can be anticipated for a number
of the studies, a reserve amount of about US$799,000 would be included in the
loan in the event that other sources of financing would not become available.
Priority would be given to use these funds for improving demand estimation,
water measurement in the main system and processing of operation data.
Livestock Health and Production
2.31      Although the livestock sub-sector represents about 30 percent of
the agriculture GDP, it has consistently received less than this share in past
Five Year Plans, with a modest increase to 12.3 percent in the current plan.
An imbalance has also existed within public livestock investment, with most
resources directed to dairy activities in the North, while priority activities
to encourage forage production and rangeland improvement have been underfunded
and are only in the 8th Plan beginning to receive an increased level of
investment. There is a need to improve public resource allocation toward
marginal areas and to further promote private lnvestments in high potential
ones.
2.32      Three technical constraints are hindering livestock production and
productivity in Tunisia: (i) a structural deficit of feedatuffs, whose
current supply is composed roughly of one third each of cultivated crops
(grain and forages, agricultural by-products, and natural vegetation);
(ii) animal diseases which sharply reduce livestock productivity in all of
Tunisia's agroecological zones and production systems; and (iii) genotype, on
which major improvements have been realized in the North for dairy cattle,
whereas small ruminants have been overlooked. However, in the 8th Plan
increased resources are allocated for goat and camel production, mainly in the
steppes and the south, and crop-livestock association in oasis system.
2.33      In addressing these issues the MOA is seeking greater private
sector involvement. Nevertheless, all three areas are characterized by



- 17-
externalities which justify specific public sector involvement that could be
supported by the ASIL. For instance coordination is needed to ensure the
effectiveness of vaccination campaigns through adequate coverage of herd and
participation by farmers in the program. Rangeland degradation involves
reconciling the conflict between the social interest in long-term resource
use, and pri.vate short-term resource abuse. Finally, genetic progress can
also be considered as a public good.
2.34      Inadequate delivery of animal and public health services are
responsible for the Veterinary Services inability to attain a more sizable
improvement of the health status of its livestock. Lack of resources for the
vaccination campaigns and follow-up activities have led to major diseases
outbreaks as with foot-and-mouth disease which spread over 2,212 flocks and
herds, and killed 50,000 lambs in only 6 weeks in 1989, representing direct
losses of DT 2.9 million. An efficient vaccination program launched in
December 1989 reduced the number of infection outbreaks from 2,212 to 13 in
December 1992. The main issue is how to increase the vaccination coverage
while containing the fiscal burden.
2.35      Livestock Investment.  The ASIL would support the animal health
program of the DGPA and the animal production program of OEP.
(a) Animal health. In order to improve the zoosanitary status of Tunisia,
the ASIL would encourage the Directorate for Animal Health (DSA) to adopt a
strategic approach by supporting the comoulsory vaccination Prooram against
major diseases, developing a Disease Surveillance Network (DSN) to monitor the
various prophylactic programs, and to provide the Directorate for Veterinary
Public Hyaiene (DHPV) with the means to improve hygiene and quality control of
animal products including sea products.
(i)    Comoulsory Vaccination Peocram.  The ASIL would finance vaccines,
equipment and vehicles for annual prophylaxis campaigns against contagious
diseases that have important economic or human health impacts (Foot-and-
mouth disease, Rabies, Brucellosis, Tuberculosis, and Sheeppox, excluding
Theileriosis and Screwworm) to reach a target of 75 percent coverage of
the susceptible animal population. Also, in order to minimize the impact
on the DSA budget, it would support reforms to allow the participation of
private practitioners in these campaigns and increase cost-recovery (see
para. 2.53i-ii).
(ii) Disease Surveillance Network. Managemer.t of animal health must be
based on an epidemiological monitoring system to allow the Administration
to anticipate pathological events and improve its planning capability. A
Dissase Surveillance Network, comprising the DSA, Veterinary
Laboratories, and representatives of professional organizations, would
design and promote this system. The Tunisian Veterinary Research
Institute (IRVT), as reference laboratory, would be responsible for
coordinating and implementing the network program. Specific Committees
for the major diseases or group of diseases would be created on the
example of the Committee on Poultry Pathology.   One of the primary tasks
of the DSN would be the assessment of the current costs of existing
diseases in order to provide the Veterinary Services with accurate data



- 18-
for decision-making and animal health program planning. The ASIL would
support the laboratories through equipment acquisition, infrastructure
upgradLng and training. Reforms would be undertaken to give the IRVT
central laboratory status and establish Boussalem, Gabes, Sfax, and Sousse
laboratorles as regional laboratories (see para. 2.53iii).
(iii)  Veterinarv Public Hvalene.  Improving the quality of animal
products is the challenge that veterinary services will increasingly face
in the future. For example, 30 percent of total production of red meat
and milk and only 20 percent of white meat are currently inspected;
moreover, in June 1992, tho MOA had to nominate the DHPV as the EEC
counterparts to guarantee the quality of exported sea products. A major
role of private veterlnarians in the vaccination campaign would free
resources of the Veterinary Services, thus allowing the strengthening of
the DHPV. The small number of staff in the DHPV, the multiplicity of
actors (e.g.. MOA, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Public Health,
Ministry of Economy, and Municipalities intervene for slaughterhouse
inspection) and the lack of coordination among the latter, result in major
deficiencies which threaten consumers' health. By financing equipment,
vehiclea and training, the ASIL would support the establishment of about
15 Inspection Units (HIDAOA) in strategic governorates (e.g., highly
populated governorates, coastal governorates, where tourism and exports
are important, and governorates in which new slaughter facilities are
planned). However, the DHPV should be staffed and endowed with a specific
budget prior to the commitments for this sub-component (see para. 2.53iv).
(b) Animal groduction. The ASIL would provide support to two programs of the
Livestock and Pasture Authority programs (OEP)s
(i)   Rangeland Improvement Proaram.  Rangelands have declined in Tunisia
as a result of increased food crop production, but sheep and lamb
production has been supported by providing imported feedstuffs at
subsidized prices. As a partial alternative, however, the OEP is
encouraging the introduction of improved forage production and range
management practices. The interventions include plantation of cactus,
atriplex and acacia, ammoniation of straw, seeding of medicago and other
improved forage species, controlled grazing and other practices. A
National Rangeland Strategy was initiated in 1990 and about
70,000 hectares have been improved so far. The ASIL would finance part
of the program, to cover 97,000 hectares through 1996, concentrating on
governorates in which there are parallel soil conservation activities
being supported by the Project;
(ii) National Program for Genetic Improvement. This program aims at
improving productivity of the national stock and includes the following
interventions: imports of improved heifers and semen, Herd Book
establishment, artificial insemination, natural mating, and performance
testing. The ASIL would finance part of the equipment necessary to the
implementation of the program, particularly the sub-components dealing
with performance testing and quality improvement. Also, the ASIL would
finance a study on the privatization of genetic improvement programs. To
support this investment program MOA must undertake the trane'er of all



19 
artificial insemination centers from CRDAs to the OEP, and as agreed with
the Bank on the basis of the study, undertake a program to establish a
legal framework for genetic improvement, and implement a cost-recovery
program for artificial insemination (see para. 2.53v).
Fisher_e_
2.36      Development of public infrastructure in the fisheries sector during
the 8th Plan consists of two programs, the construction of 13 new small ports
at existing beach landings and improvements to add capacity and correct
siltation problems at 12 larger fishery ports. A new set of investments is
also being prepared for addition to the 8th Plan to maintain access to
European import markets that will be regulated by new quality norms beginning
in 1996.
2.37      Although several ports have been constructed and technology
introduced in the south for increasing the fish catch per boat, production has
stagnated. Port investments in the south need to be reviewed to ensure that
additional capacity is not created for capture of species that are already
over-fished. In contrast, fishing potential in the north is not yet fully
exploited, due in part to the more difficult sea conditions for fishing.
Inadequate port infrastructure remains a limiting factor, and the construction
of small shelter ports would permit local fishermen to purchase larger
motorized boats and to benefit from more productive fishing days per year.
Government priority in the small fish port program is therefore going to
construction of ports along the north coast, while investments in the south
primarily address problems of siltation at existing ports.
2.38      Five priority sites for small fish ports along the north coast have
been identified by the Government, of which the ASIL would finance threes
(i) Ras Enjla, which represents a D 2.2 million investment project and an IRR
of ll.5 percent.  The profitability of the project was improved by the
adjustment in the size of the port which led to reduce the overall cost by DT
1 million;  (ii) Cap Zebib, for which siltation concerns limit the scope for
reducing investment costs of D 3.5 million, resulting in an IRR of
10.6 percent; and, (iii) Cap Negro, for which the preliminary studies and
bidding documents should be ready by October 1994, with costs tentatively
estimated at DT 3.5 million. The small fish port construction consists of at
least one breakwater to protect a port basin from waves. Within the basin
there are quays for unloading of fish and jetties where boats can be berthed.
Within the port area a market hall, an ice factory, cold stores, a fuel pump,
and working areas for fishermen are planned. Access roads are also necessary
for some sites. Port improvements, particularly to address sedimentation
problems, would also be eligible for Loan support contingent upon satisfactory
economic comparison of the maintenance and infrastructure modification
alternatives, and completion of environmental evaluation of the proposed
activities at each site.
2.39      A Quality Assurance Program is under development by the DGPEA to
enable meeting EEC norms pertaining to quality standards for fish imports.
Support by the ASIL is contingent upon completion and adequacy of detailed
documentation of the investment components of the quality assurance program,



. 20 -
including the establishment by the Fisheries Port Authority (APIP) of a
detailed design proposal for each of the 13 ports which will be involved.
Both private and public investment will be necessary, with the latter
consisting of sewage management at port facilities and other port
Improvements. Cost estimates come to D 5.3 million, and include mainly
infrastructure rehabilitation. Moreover, the DHPV, as the competent authority
for quality control of sea products, would be strengthened with special
emphasis on the fisheries sector (see para. 2.S3iii).
Soil and Water Conservation ISwC)
2.40      The SWC program in the 8th Plan consists of investments to
alleviate soil erosion (through watershed interventions, rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing works, and cultural practices on susceptible private
cereals lands) and to conserve water resources through small scale civil works
(ponds, infiltration dams, and weirs for spate irrigation).
2.41      The ASIL would support programmed investments for soil
conservation. Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system, research,
and training would also be eligible for support (see para. 2.74). The loan
would not cover maintenance and rehabilitation of existing works, which should
be the responsibility of beneficiaries, nor the program of interventions on
private lands in cereals areas, where the state role should be limited to
technical assistance and training. Investments would be supported only in the
eight Regions which will have completed a plan for SWC activities by end-1993,
and in two additional regions during each subsequent year of the ASIL which
are programmed to complete such a plan. The targeted regions are those with
the most significant erosion problems and largest planned prevention programs.
The investments would be carried out in conjunction with measures to improve
the integration of soil and water conservation approaches with farm activities
and production.
2.42      Efforts to shift away from implementation of SWC works by force
account towards private contracting and greater farmer participation would be
supported by the AS!L. ASIL support would be restricted to works to be
achieved through private contracts, specifically, mechanical terracing and
bunding, gully consolidation, biological stabilization of contour ridges and
range planting. In addition, once the legal framework is established for soil
conservation farmers' associations through passage of the draft Soils Code, a
pilot phase of testing alternatives for carrying out the full range of soil
conservation investments directly through contracts with farmers and farmers,
groups would be eligible for ASIL support.
2.43      The small scale civil works for water mobilization are also
eligible for ASIL support. Actual support would depend on the availability of
other donor resources. In the case of the ponds, adequate preparation would
entail implementation of a procedure acceptable to the ANPE for reviewing
environmental impacts, establishment and consultation of a user's group
beginning in the design stage, and implementation of a soil erosion prevention
plan in the microbasin.



- 21
Land Reform
2.44      The economic, social and environmental impacts of parcel
fragmentation are of concern to the authorities. Fragmentation limits the
economic viability of farm units, constrains farmer access to credit and
exacerbates soil erosion. Several approaches are being developed to address
the problem by means of legal instruments, indirect incentives, assisted
reconstitution of larger farm units, and supportive public investment in
infrastructure. A diagnostic and planning study to design a pilot project
approach would be undertaken by Government at the beginning of the ASIL, in
parallel with finalization of the necessary legislative basis for
interventions. The ASIL would follow this phase with support for a pilot
intervention approach to voluntary consolidation of fragmented parcels in
several locations. Studies, institutional strengthening of the implementing
agency, and public investments in pilot areas of intervention would be
eligible for financing. This component would draw on experience with
consolidation in irrigated lands in addressing fragmentation problems in
rainfed areas. Formal land titling and registration would be ensured by the
implementing agency in the pilot project areas, but as a general issue would
require a separate cadastral project.
D. _ub-Sector Reform Comoonent
2.45      Good progress has been made and continues to be made in
implementing sector reforms as part of the MTASAP. Additional measures remain
to be put in place in the areas of trade, pricing, parastatals and marketing,
some of which are addressable by the ASIL. These are described below and also
detailed in the Government's Development Action Plan (Annex 1).
Water sector
2.46      Water Charaes:  Recent Reforms.  The Government has made
substantial progress on the action plan developed during implementation of the
ASAL U1 to improve demand management and cost recovery of operations and
maintenance for irrigation water through pricing. Under the ASAL $I the
Government agreed to: (i) raise water charges in each CRDA by 9 percent in
real terms, or failing this, ensure that an average of 9 percent was achieved
over the period 1991-95; (ii) issue a decree including the possibility of a
binomial tariff structure (a fixed levy and a varying charge based on the
volume consumed); (iii) update a 1991 study to refine O&M cost data for public
irrigation schemes; and (iv) introduce a cost accounting system for sales of
irrigation water by CRDAs, in parallel to their existing public accounting
system. Water charges are being increased, and while not by 9 percent in all
CRDAs, the weighted average increase over 1991-92 has been 9 percent in real
terms annually. The binomial tariff decree has been passed but is not yet
being introduced in the Medjerda Valley where it was intended to promote
better use of underutilized irrigable land. Cost data have been updated and
reviewed as part of a proposed strategy to recovery the included (but
incomplete) costs by 1995. The public accounting system that CRDAs are
obliged to apply does not make provisions for amortization of operational
equipment, electrical and mechanical equipment, occasional large maintenance
works and administrative overheads, which results in a roughly 25 percent



- 22-
underestimation of O&M costs. CRDAs are not introducing commercial accounting
systems to account for these costs.
2.47      Eurther Reforms.  Under the ASIL MOA wouldt
(i)   increase CRDA irrigation water charges by 9 percent annually in
real terms until full O&M cost recovery is achieved based on a revised
definition of O&M to include provisions for amortization, replacement
costs and occasional major repairs at the level of operation by users
associations. Specific criteria for such provisioning will be agreed with
the Bank on the basis of a study to be completed by April 19951 and
(ii)  apply the binomial tariff structure to selected irrigation command
areas in Northern Tunisia beginning in 1995.
Lower tariff increases would only be justified for those areas where the rate
increases are demonstrably onerous on the basis of farm budget analyses.
Implementation of a commercial accounting system for water delivery services
of CRDAs would not be stressed under the ASIL. This is because a key
objective of raising water charges during the ASIL is to foster the creation
of user groups that would take over the O&M responsibilities of the CRDAs,
which would retreat from water retailing activities.
Livestock Sector
2.48      Recent Reforms.  Significant progress has been made under the ASALs
in the livestock sector but scope remains for additional improvements.
Pricing policy reforms in 1990 for beef improved incentives for local
production through liberalizing retail prices and allowing private imports of
chilled and frozen meat, while applying a variable levy sufficient to provide
domestic producers with price protection of 15 percent. However, the
existence of licensed butchers associated with the parastatal slaughterhouse
and importer El Louhoum, who sell imported meat at fixed price, continues to
hamper beef market development.
2.49      The government has substantially reduced subsidies on animal feed
but has not altered its use of such subsidies, particularly on barley, during
drought emergency assistance to small-scale herders. Permanent reduction of
subsidies on other animal feeds is encouraging a shift in animal production
towards more efficient forage-based systems. Subsidies for maize were removed
in 1992, which is also expected for soya meal in 1993.
2.50      In the dairy sector, where milk powder imports represent about
40 percent of the overall consumption, the import monopoly of the two big
parastatals (STIL and Tunisie-Lait) has been eliminated, a levy on imported
milk powder has been applied and the consumption subsidies previously
restricted to reconstituted powder milk extended to fresh milk. These reforms
have increased demand for locally produced milk and encouraged processors to
begin developing milk collecting networks.
2.51      The government has undertaken reforms of parastatals involved in
livestock production. State farms belonging to OEP have been rented out, and



* 23
milk collecting centers are being leased for management by services
cooperatives and milk processors. However, parastatal enterprises still own
processing plants, mainly in the dairy industry where they play the leading
role.
2.52      This disengagement of the state from production activities is being
accompanied by a partial privatization of livestock services. Private
veterinarians (a quarter of the total of 381) benefited in the late 80s from
subsidized credit to start-up private practices. The MOA is beginning to use
contracts with private veterinarians to inspect municipal slaughterhouses,
milk collecting centers and animal feed mills. MOA also adopted cost-recovery
practices for laboratory analyses beginning in January 1993, and intends to
pursue its effort for other services provided, such as artificial insemination
and vaccination.
2.53      Further Reforms.  Under the ASIL, the MOA would:
(i)   support privatization of selected veterinary services by expanding
use of established contractual procedures to permit compensation of
private veterinarians who participate in compulsory vaccination campaigns
and hygiene inspections (slaughterhouses, milk collection centers, feed
mills) beginning in 1994. So far, 21 private veterinarians operate under
such renewable contracts ("conventions"), and some fourty others have
submitted applications which have yet to be acted upon;
(ii) reduce its fiscal burden by establishing targets and progressively
increase cost-recovery for laboratory analyses (begun in 1993) to cover
operating costs and develop and implement cost-recovery approaches for
compulsory vaccinations, artificial insemination and possibly natural
mating;
(iii) implement the Disease Surveillance Network by nublishina the Decree
establishina the IRVT as central laboratory by loan effectiveness and
publishing by October 1995 the decrees necessary to create regional
laboratories;
(iv) strengthen the Directorate for Veterinary Public Hygiene by
reinforcing its personnel, such as foreseen in its statute of creation by
October 1994 and by providing a separate budget line item beginning in
1995. In addition, a program for the establishment of 15 Inspection Units
and implementation of pilot actions, together with Municipalities, to
include improved management of new slaughterhouses and control of
clandestine slaughtering in three zones; and
(v)   strengthen the National Program for Genetic Improvement by
completing the transfer of artificial insemination centers from CRDAs to
the OEP by January 1995 and by defining by October 1995 and subsequently
carrying out a program for privatization of genetic improvement services,
and establishment of the legal and regulatory framework for the national
genetic improvement program. While the OEP currently oversees one semen
production center and 29 Al centers in 15 Governorates, the CRDAs still



manage 32 centers in 17 Governorates which ahould be transferred in the
near future.
Fisheries Sector
2.54      Recent Reforms.  The GOT has recently pursued a range of
institutional and policy reforms to address new circumstances arising from the
rapid but regionally lmbalanced growth of seafood product exports, largely to
Europe, which have become the second most iAportant agricultural export after
olive oill/. In 1992, the parastatal institutional structure of the sector
was overhauled to establish the APIP and a General Directorate for Fisheries
and Aquaculture (DGPEA). The APIP is to run the fishing ports, provide
selected services to fishermen, and enforce fisheries laws. The DGPEA is a
policy unit within the MOA responsible for preparing enabling legislation,
formulating and coordinating sectorial development strategies, and promoting
the structuration of the sector. The legal framework, principally the 1951
Decree covering fish resources management, is being updated to include topics
such as fish-harvesting effort, quality of seafood, and investmen'
rationalization. Also, enforcement is being strengthened through increased
penalties, and all professional documents revised.
2.55      The State has made significant progress withdrawing from fishing,
processing and marketing. The ONP is almost completely dismantled, with its
44 trawlers sold, its monopoly on fish marketing abolished, subsidiaries for
ship building and fish marketing liquidated, and dredging equipment and
personnel transferred to APIP. Privatization tenders for international offer
are being prepared for the parastatal processing plants (two complexes in
Mahdia and one in Sididaoud). ONP will be responsible in the future for
inland fish production in lakes and fish stocking of reservoirs, with a
reduced staff of about 200 persons compared to 1,250 in 1992.
2.56      The research program is implemented by the National Fishery
Research Institute (INSTOP), under the supervision of the State Secretary for
Scientific Research. Several priority programs were recently established
including aquaculture and marine environmental monitoring, monitoring and
evaluation of resources, and introducing new techniques.
2.57      There is a significant regional imbalance in fish harvesting.
Greater profitability in the south has led to unsustainable exploitation of
its resources, with boat operators beginning to face financial difficulties as
the population of high value species are decreasing. Most of the port
infrastructure? and boats are concentrated in the south where the fishing
potential Is large because of a wide continental plateau and mild weather
conditions. In the north fish resources are mainly less valuable pelagic
species. Also, climate conditions require larger boats. Fishing potential in
X  tunisia exports an average of 15,000T of seafood a year, for a value of 0 100 mltlions. which
represents almost 30 percent of total agriculture exports. About 90 percent of exports are going to
EEC countries.
I In the south, in the Golfe de Gabbs, there is one harbor every 50 km, whereas the north has only three
harbors tKelibia, Blzerte and Tabarka).



- 25 
the north is under-exploited because of difficult sea conditions and lack of
port infrastructure. Where no ports exist, fishermen are limited to use of
boats small enough to be dragged onto the beach between uses.
2.58      Further Reforms.  The main policy activity to be monitored by the
ASIL would be an assessment of the existing incentive policies which aim to
promote fisheries development in the north. The results of this study will be
provided by October 1994, in order to permit an assessment of the opportunity
for implementing new incentive mechanisms within the Policy for Fisheries
Development in the North which should be adopted no later than the 1995 budget
year.
2.59      A subsidy program has been implemented to encourage north coast
fishing where the stock is under-exploited. This includes two thirds
subsidization of port services, subsidies on fuel (28 millimes per liter in
the south, and 78 millimes in the north), up to 30 percent subsidies for ship
purchase, and other subsidies for equipment such as nets. However, this
program has not been as effective as expected in encouraging a shift of the
fish-harvesting effort (effort de pAche) to the north. Fishing in the north
remains modest and fishermen from the south are not yet willing to shift to
the north. The study above will evaluate this policy according to terms of
reference that were reviewed during the appraisal mission.
2.60      EEC countries are the destination of 90 percent of Tunisian seafood
exports. New EEC directives were issued January 1993 regarding quality
requirements in the EEC Common Market, and will affect Tunisian exports
beginning 1996. In order to comply with these new EEC quality standards and
keep access to this market, Tunisia needs to define and implement a Quality
Assurance Program, including an adequate regulatory framework and investments
to upgrade infrastructure and private fishing and processing capital (see
para. 2.39).
Soil And Water Conservation iLWC-
2.61      Recent Reforms:  An comprehensive evaluation of the SWC experience
was undertaken in 1991 and by end-year, a National Strategy was outlined.
Progress has begun towards implementing the main orientations of this
strategy: (i) gradual implication of beneficiaries in SWC works;
(ii) strengthening of extension activities on SWC techniques; (iii) adaptation
of SWC activities to production systems; (iv) initiation of a monitoring and
evaluation system; (v) establishment of an updated legislative framework; and
(vi) promotion of private enterprises in carrying out SWC works.
2.62      Further Reforms:  The ASIL would support the achievement of this
recently established reform agenda, in particular the updating of the
legislative framework for SWC activities, progressive substitution by private
contracting of current force account implementation of selected activities,
and participation of farmers and farmer groups on a contractual basis in
execution of SWC works once the legal basis for this is established.
2.63      Consolidation of the legislative framework for SWC activities in an
updated Code for Water and Soil Conservation would take place during the ASIL.



- 26 -
Drafting of the Code is being completed, and submission to the Chamber of
Deputies of the Code by October 1994 is a key action of the DAP.
2.64      Gradual replacement of force account by private contracting has
already begun for certain SWC activities, and would be accelerated. In the
regions and for the treatment techniques that would be supported by the ASIL,
8S percent of the area treated would be through private cor:racting in 1994,
and 90 percent in following years.
2.65      Passage of the Code would provide the MOA with the legal basis for
carrying out SWC activities through contracts directly with farmers and farmer
associations. Approaches for improving the participation of farmers through
this new vehicle would be tested immediately, such that within a year of the
passage of the Code, the Direction for soil and Water Conservation would be
able to prepare a plan for the phased increase in implementation of identified
SWC activities directly by farmers on their own property.
Acrarian Land Reform
2.66      Establishment of an agreed strategy which would lnclude options of
indirect incentives and strengthening of the legislative framework to enable
the Government's institutional involvement in consolidation of parcels in
rainfed areas would be necessary for ASIL commitments to occur in support of
the activities defined above (para. 2.44).
S. Institutional Strencthenino Component
2.67      To achieve greater efficiency of public investment, the MOA's
planning and implementation capacity would be strengthened under the Project.
Investment Budaet Monitoring
2.68      The MOA has over the past several years established various
monitoring procedures, but they remain poorly coordinated and are not yet an
effective instrument for management. In addition to monitoring and
supervision reports generated from Project Units and missions of larger donor
projects, the DGFE produces a semiannual document that reviews the status of
projects with costs over D 10 million and donor financing. Project units and
agencies also submit to the DOPE detailed end-year project summaries that give
sub-project component performance, both financial and physical, and reviewing
any implementation problems. In addition, the Departments responsible for the
rural potable water and hill dam programs have developed and maintain up-to-
date status reports on investment project implementation, and this monitoring
approach is also being tested for the soil and water conservation investment
program. These disparate systems need to be integrated to provide a regular
and comprehensive view of implementation status of the MOA's investment
portfolio, with the information available to both the regional and central
program managers. TORs have been agreed for a study that would design and
install the system, with costs to be financed by the ASIL. The monitoring
system would require the establishment of DGFE units in the CRDAs. As
envisioned, this monitoring system would be the first phase of an plan that



- 27 -
would eventually put in place the capacity to undertake ex post evaluations of
investments.
MOA decentralization to the CROAs
2.69      Since the decentralization of MOA activities to regional CRDAs
effectively began in 1991, responsibilities for managing investment planning
and implementation have grown rapidly while activities in input supply,
mechanized services, milk collection and cold storage have begun to be
relinquished to the private sector. Throughout this period, and despite the
changing focus of CRDA work, only limited adjustments to their organizational
structure and skills mix have occurred because of a hiring freeze and absence
of medium-term planning of needs. At the same time, budgetary consequences of
new undertakings and relinquishment of others have received little attention.
To address these shortcomings, the MOA is to prepare a medium-term plan to
realize the organizational, staffing, and budgetary adjustments needed to
fulfill the anticipated activities mix and volume. Final terms of reference
for this study were submitted to the Bank as a condition of Board
presentation.
Strenothenino investment olanninc and management
2.70      Improvina Water Use Efficiency:  On-Farm Water Use.  Since the
agricultural sector is by far the most important water user, Government
realizes that most of the potential for water savings will have to be realized
in this sector and especially from improving water use on the farm. However,
no concrete national action program to promote improved water use on the farm
exists. Adaptive research for on-farm irrigation technologies has been
carried out by several CRDAs but is incomplete and lacks national
coordination. This could be provided by the Research Center for Rural
Engineering (CRGR), but it has no ongoing research and lacks staff and
financial resources. Recently, however, a permanent commission has been set
up within MOA to look into the research needs under the leadership of the
National Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education (IRESA).
2.71      Discussion with GOT during appraisal determined that the MOA would
initiate the preparation of a national program to improve irrigation water use
on the farm under the guidance of a panel of international experts. The panel
would examine adaptive research already undertaken, propose a follow-up
research program, and measures to strengthen the CRGR. This would be followed
by a period of testing promising technologies on farmers' fields and
disseminating the recommended technologies to the farmers by the extension
service.
2.72      Livestock.  There is insufficient analysis of the impact of public
investments in the livestock subsector. Animal health programs need to be
designed based on the most cost effective interventions determined through a
better understanding of benefits, recurrent costs and real costing of
services. Special emphasis will be put on monitoring the impact of diseases
and vaccination campaigns, through the implementation of the Disease
Surveillance Network.



- 28 -
2.73      Fisheries.  In conjunction with a re-evaluation of the incentives
intended to promote fishing along the North coast, improvements will be made
in the current economic analysis methodology used to appraise new port
infrastructures. Estimates of fish stocks and expected catches, and financial
projections for the activities occurring at the port (e.g. port services in
addition to fishing per se) should be included in the analysis. Such analysis
would allow the optimization of equipment and harbor size, the calculation of
port service tariffs based on real operating costs, and the assessment of
tariffs on fishermen income. Also, it is necessary to strengthen the links
between INSTOP, accountable to the State Secretary for Scientific Research,
and the DGPEA.
2.74      Soil and Water Conservation.  Institutional capacity in investment
management would be strengthened through improving regional plans, focussing
the research effort, expanded training, and establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system. For the ASIL, medium-term plans would be completed for two
additional regions per year, beyond the eight regions which would have such
plans by end-1993. These plans establish priority zones for interventions,
indicated the techniques likely to be used, provide cost estimates, and
present a simple estimation of economic rate of return. Planning by objectlve
is being conducted for SWC research under the coordination of IRESA, and a
medium-term research strategy, specific research projects and their budgets
will be established by end-1993. Non-recurrent components of these budgets
would be eligible for ASIL financing. Considerable gaps remain in the
understanding of SWC impacts at the basin level, as well as in the socio-
economic impact of the techniques. These gaps have been identified and
highlighted in a recent independent review of SWC, and given priority to the
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system for SWC works. A
technical assistance project is now underway with another donor with a
component that will develop the approach for such a system, to include
physical and financial monitoring of investments, and evaluation of physical,
economic and social impacts. The ASIL would support expenditures to equip and
put into operation this system.
2.75      Environment.  The Loan would support establishment and
reinforcement of procedures to strengthen MOA's capacity to review
environmental impacts and implement mitigation plans as part of preparing
investment projects in compliance with Tunisian environmental law. Such law
was recently strengthened by Decree No. 91-362 which specifies that
environmental impact studies or notices be submitted to the ANPE for a range
of activlties including those undertaken by the MOA. Implementation of this
Decree is being accelerated. Model terms of reference were recently developed
jointly by the MOA and ANPE for such studies on hill dam and fish port
construction. The MOA anticipates coordinating such documentation with
technical and socio-economic studies already undertaken for such investments,
and to undertake them for all such sub-projects in the budget, regardless of
Loan financing. Construction of new irrigation perimeters and expansion of
existing schemes would require that a notice indicating environmental impacts
be cleared by ANPE. Small-scale civil works, which may also be supported in
the latter years of the Loan (see para. 2.40), would be contingent on
establishment of procedures acceptable to the ANPE for the environmental
review of such investments consistent with Decree No. 91-362. The Loan would



- 29 -
make resources available to the MOA to undertake training of its central and
CRDA personnel involved in these investments to familiarize them with the
objectives of environmental impact studies, mitigation plans, and the existing
Tunisian environmental laws.
2.76      Land Reform.  Current responsibility for land tenure reform in
areas benefiting from public irrigation investment lies with Agrarian Reform
Agency for Public Irrigation Schemes (ARAPPI), and this agency is also
expected to be charged with undertaking similar activities in rainfed areas
upon approval of draft legislation. The increased scope of responsibility
will require additional skills, staffing and logistical capacity. Those need
are expected to be modest in the initial pilot proiect phase to be imolemented
durino the ASIL. and would be determined by a diaanostic and vlanning study to
be initiated by the MOA as a condition of Loan effectiveness. The ASIL would
support the initial stage of institutional strengthening identified by this
study as needed for the pilot project investments (para. 2.44).
Suvoort of emeraina resource users aroubs by CRDAs
2.77      The MOA has for several years been establishing the foundation for
wider and more effective collaboration with groups of natural resource users.
Most progress to date has come in fostering users groups (AICs) for rural
potable water infrastructure, although the longest experience has been with
irrigation water users groups. The number of AICs has increased from about
100 in 1986 to 1,354 by the end of 1992, of which 1,059 for rural water supply
and 285 for small-scale irrigation and mlxed use. The former have been quite
successful in realizing savings in water and energy. Several also have taken
initiatives ln promoting the well-being of women or undertaking rural road
improvement works. Initial legislation passed in the late 1980. to enable
creation of these AICs has recently been revised to reflect lessons learned
during the first years of experience. During the 8th Plan period creation of
700 new AICs is expected. This involves: (i) election of AIC officials,
legal registration of the AIC; (ii) local participation in system design,
agreeing on water charges; (iii) arranging a maintenance and operation
program; (iv) providing institutional support; (v) training of AIC leaders and
technicians; (vi) setting up a financial management system and a simple
procedure for M&E; and (vii) training in hygiene in case of AICs for potable
water supply. The regional offices of the DGGR are responsible for system
planning and design with institutional support provided by the CRDAs.
2.78      Success of the MOA's attempt to adapt this approach to soil, forest
and irrigation perimeter management is particularly important as public
investment priorities and sector strategy are giving greater attention to
these resources. The next several years are expected to be an important
period of experimentation with different approaches and options for addressing
resource-specific issues through users groups. Experience needs to be gained
with the support unit established in each CRDA beginning 1992 for the rural
potable water users groups. But in the medium term, there is concern that a
proliferation of resource-based users groups within the same community will be
counterproductive and confront budgetary and personnel constraints to CRDA
support for such groups. It is likely that a more integrated and multi-



- 30-
disciplinary approach will emerge for addressing resource management
priorities at the community level.
2.79      The stratigy to be supported by the ASIL in the near term consists
oft (i) supporting implementation the national strategy for rural potable
water users' groups; (ii) extending the user group approach to public
investments in hill ponds; and (iii) progressive introduction of users' groups
into all public irrigation perimeters, including in the North. Users' groups
are also being supported in forestry by the Second Forestry Project and in the
Development of Northwest Mountainous Region and Natural Resource Preservation
Project. Under the Project, an evaluation of these initial experiences would
be completed by April 1995, and recommendations acted upon regarding
modifications in the scope of activity of the recently established
support units in CRDAs for potable water user groups.
2.80      Under ASAL II the Bank has already financed some 40 rural water
supply schemes. Implementation experience has been positive, including the
setting up of AICs and monitoring and evaluation. All additional water points
to be established with ASIL support would require the establishment of AICs,
as would investments in tubewell and spate irrigation schemes. Government is
also interested to promote AICs for the public irrigation schemes but this
will remain difficult as long as water charges remain relatively low,
especially in Northern Tunisia.
2.81      For irrigation perimeters, establishment of a national strategy for
promoting irrigation water users' groups would be a key action. It would
require the establishment by DGGR of a mechanism for collecting and analyzing
both physical and financial information that would permit CRDAs to examine the
feasibility of such users' groups. Terms of reference for such a study have
been prepared by DGGR, and would be realized in 1994. The study would draw
upon results from preliminary analysis undertaken by the DGGR in 1993, and
would be closely coordinated with a study on water tarification and cost
recovery that is to be financed under the Project.
P. Orcanizat_ion and ImIementation
2.82      Implementation would be through the MOA: an oversight committee
consisting of all the affected units in the MOA would be created not later
than May 31, 1994 with the DGFE providing for the secretariat. The Planning
Department (DGPDIA) would provide overall coordination within the oversight
committee for the policy reforms, as would the DGFE for procurement. Various
central departments and their regional CRDA branches will carry out the
investment sub-components. The land tenure sub-component may involve AXPPI
to implement parcel consolidation. To be eligible for financing under the
loan, investments would have to be included in the 8th Plan, be consistent
with sub-sector strategies set out in the borrower's Development Action Plan,
and be prepared according to agreed upon criteria (para 2.08).
G. Program Costs
2.83      The total costs of the four year public investment program,
comprising the final three years of the 8th Plan (1994-96) and the first year



31-
of the 9th Plan (1997) are estimated at D 1,425 million (US$1,455 million
equivalent). The costs of the components that would be supported by the loan
are the equivalent of US$211.0 million, which includes taxes and duties
totaling an estimated US$39 million. Since disbursements would be made
against fixed budget expenditures, cost estimates are in current dinars and
contingencies are included in the totals. Accordingly, contingencies are not
shown separately.
III.      THE LOAN
A. Financing
3.01       The proposed Bank loan of US$120 million would finance about
10 percent of the MOA budget for 1994-97, excluding taxes and dutiesl/. The
budget items selected for financing would total US$211.0 million, and are
shown in Table 3.1. A financing plan for the whole public investment program
is shown in Table 3.2. A summary of items to be financed in the first year of
the loan is shown in Annex 3.
Table 3.1: Items to be Financed
(D miltion)           (USS milion)
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign  Total     % For.     S
&h.   Base Costs
Dams and Conveyances        20.1   13.4  33.5      20.5   13.7   34.2       40.0    16.2
Resetement                   0.2    0.0   0.2       0.2    0.0    0.2        0.0      0.1
rriation Perimeters         14.5   30.6  45.1      14.8   31.2   46.0       67.9    21.8
Hydraulic Studies            9.9   14.6  24.5      10.1   14.9   25.0       59.7    11.8
Rural Potable Water         18.6   25.9  44.5      19.0   26.4   45.4       58.1    21.5
Livestock                    3.2   16.9  20.1       3.3   17.2   20.5       84.0      9.7
Fisheries                   10.2    5.7  15.9      10.4    5.8   16.2       36.0      7.7
Soil and Water Consewation  11.6    7.9  19.5      11.8    8.1   19.9       40.5      9.4
Land Reform                  0.3    0.2   0.6       0.3    0.2    0.6       40.0      0.3
Other                        1.8    1.2   3.0       1.8    1.2    3.0       40.0      1.4
Total                       90.4  116.4  206.8     92.2  118.8  211.0               100.0
f   OECF cofinancing is possibly forthcoming following an official request by the Tunisian authorities in
an amount equivalent to USS85 million subsequent to loan negotiations. The understanding between the World
lank and the Tunisian authorities is that at such time as cofinancing may be confirmed, the World Bank loan
would be reduced from US$120 million to USS85 million, and the necessary changes be made to reflect this in
loan documentation.



- 32 -
Table 3.2: Financing Plan for the 1994-97 Program
(USS millions)
Local   Foreign    Total
World Bank, ASIL                     1.2       118.8     120.0
Government                          91.0         0.0      91.0
Total Project Costs                 92.2      118.8      211.0
B. Procurement
3.02        Procurement methods are to be as shown in Table 3.3 according to
arrangements that are discussed below.
3.03        ICB in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on procurement would be
used for civil works contracts of US$3.0 million or more and for equipment
contracts of US$300,000 or more. Due to the limited size and the dispersed
nature of the works, it is not feasible to package large parts of the civil
works into contracts of a size to attract foreign contractors. There are a
sufficient number of local contractors who are interested in this type of work
and who are efficient. Contracts for works and equipment amounts below these
thresholds would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, upt to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$89,400,000 and US$5,200,000 for works and goods,
respectively. Computer equipment (US$1.4 million) would be procured under LCB
procedures since it is essential that service facilities be available.
Veterinary drugs, to be procured through contracts costing the equivalent of
US$1,200,000 or less for each, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$5.0 million, would be procured by limited international bidding (LIS) under
established and efficient government procedures for the purchase of drugs.
Pasture improvement (US$7.5 million), would be undertaken by OEP under force
account (PA). The works are small, scattered and in remote locations and
experience in other similar Bank financed projects in Tunisia demonstrates
that local contractors are not interested. OP is experienced in executing
works and constructions on PA, with accounting control of the execution of
these works under standard Government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Electrification of port sites (US$1.1 million) and some tubewells for
irrigation (US$1.9 million) and potable water (US$3.6 million) would be
executed by the Electricity Company of Tunisia (STEG) through established
procedures, based on actual costs; STEG is the public company solely
authorized to execute these works, and is well run. Local shopping will be
used for other procurement of goods below US$50,000 up to an aggregate of
US$1,000,000. For equipment procured under ICB, qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Sample bidding documents for each type of procurement (imports,
civil works, equipment) would also be reviewed prior to the start of bidding.



- 33-
Table 3.3s Procurement Table
(USS milllon equivalent)
Prect lement                        Purement Method                            Total
ICB     LCD          Other            N.8.F      Cost
1. Work
1.1 Hill dams                       34.2            0.2 5'                  34.2
(18.)           (0.0)                   (18.7)
1.2 Irrigation perimeters  13.3     30.0            1.9 k,                  45.2
(8.0)    (15.6)          (1.)                   (24.6)
1.3 Rural potable water             40.5            3.6 Y'                  44.1
(22.0)          (2.0)                   (24.0)
1.4 Groundwaeor surveys             25.0                                     25.0
(13.6)                                  (13.6)
1.5 Fash ports                      15.1             1.1W                    16.2
(8.2)          (0.6)                    (8.8)
1.6 Soil conservation               19.9                                     19.9
(10.9)                                  (10.9)
1.7 Pasture improvement                             7.5 '                     7.5
(4.1)                   (4.)
1.8 Land reform                      0.6                                      0.6
(0.3)                                  (0.3)
2. Goods
2.1 Hydro-E/M equipment               2.1                                     2.1
(1.5)                                  (1.5)
2.2 Vet. drugs                                       S.0 '                    5.0
(4.5)                   (4.5)
2.3 Laboratory equipment   3.4       3.3             1.0f                     7.7
(3.1)     (2.5)           (0.7)                   (6.3)
2.4 Computer equipment                1.4                                     1.4
(.9)                                   (1.0)
2.5 Vehicles                         0.3                                      0.3
(0.2)                                  (0.2)
3. Consultants
3.1 Studies, ttaining, research                      1.6P                     1.6
(1.4)                   (1.4)
Total                    16.7     172.4           21.8                    211.0
(11.1)    (94.6)          (14.3)                 (120.0)
Note: Total public investment program costs are US$1,455 millions. Figurs in table are costs of components rtained for
the ASIL, with figures in parentheses indicating amounts to be disbursed by the Bank. N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
Works and Goods should be procured in accordance with World Bank, Gadelines: Procuremnt under IRD and IDA
Credits (Washington, D. C., May 1992) and Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guideines: Use of
Consuanus by World Bank orrowers and by World Bank as Erecuting Agency (Washingwon, D. C, Augus 1981).
I/ Forceaccount.
k/ Dire  contracting for connection to electricity grid by STEG.
g/ Limited intemational bidding.
_/ Local shopping.
jl Consultant services.



- 34 -
3.04        Tunisian LCB procedures are generally acceptable to the Bank, but
there are some aspects which are inconsistent with Bank policy and/or could be
improved to ensure better competition. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that procurement under the Project would be carried out following
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The hiring of consultants would be in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants, with the
Letter of Invitation addressed to a short list of consultants.
3.05        Bank-financed works contracts equal to or above a threshold of
US$1,000,000 equivalent, contracts for goods equal to or above the equivalent
of US$300,000, and consultants contracts equal to or above the equivalent of
US$50,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review. These thresholds
reflect the performance of the MOA on procurement of similar works and goods
under the ASAL 1I investment component. The terms of reference would require
prior Bank review, regardless of contract cost. The review process would
cover about 50 percent of the total contract amounts. This relatively low
percentage is due to the large number of small civil work contracts. During
negotiations, agreement was also reached that the first two such small
contracts for irrigation perimeters, rural potable water, groundwater surveys
and soil conservation would be reviewed by the Bank prior to award. For other
procurement, prior to the submission of the related withdrawal application,
the borrower should furnish all information and documentation that the Bank
may reasonably request in respect of such procurement.
3.06        Procurement information would be collected and recorded as
follows:
(i)   prompt reporting of contract award information by borrower;
(ii) comprehensive semi-annual reports to the Bank by the borrower
indicating
-     revised cost estimates for individual contracts being
financed by the ASIL;
-     revised timing of procurement actions including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time
for individual
contracts being financed by the ASIL;
-     compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of
procurement; and
-     a completion report by the borrower within six months of
loan's closing date.
C. Disbursements
3.07      The proposed loan, which is a time slice operation, would extend
over five years and would be completed by June 30, 1998. Since the project is
financing specific budget line-items in the 1993-97 annual budgets, and for
which commitments, to be eligible for financing, have to be made before
December 31, 1997, there should be no problem in finalizing project
disbursements in the five year period. The estimate schedule of disbursements
is summarized in Table 3.4 (see Annex 4 for details).



35-
3.08      The Ministry of Agriculture (DGFE) would be responsible for
administering the loan, including certifying projects and programs as meeting
the selection criteria and preparing withdrawal applications. Disbursements
from the loan account would be made after receipt of full documentation,
except for goods and works valued below US$100,000 equivalent, for which
disbursements would bo made against certified statement of expenditures (SOBE),
Table 3.4t Disbursement Schedule
(USS million)
IBRD Piscal Year
1994        1995         1996        1997         1998
Disbursements
Annual               5           25           30          30           30
Cumulative           5           30           60          90          120
detailing individual transactions in a given period, and certification of
payment and of eligibility of the transactions for loan financing. The SOE
would be certified by the implementation agency incurring the expenditure,
with supporting documentation to be retained until at least 12 months after
the closing date of the loan and made available for Inspection during Bank
supervision missions and by external auditors. Disbursement categories,
amounts allocated, and share of expenditures to be financed are indicated in
Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: Project Disbursements
Loan Allocation         % of Expenditures
(USS million)           to be financed
1. Civil Works                       105.1                      60
2. Equipment, Tools,                  13.5           100 percent of foreign
Materials, Vet. Drugs,                         expenditures and 80 percent
Vehicles                                         of expenditures for items
procured locally
3. consultancy Services,               1.4                     100
Studies, Training
Total                                120.0



. 36-
3.09        A revolving fund (special account) would be established at the
Central Bank of Tunisia to fund eligible expenditures. The initial deposit
would be US$10 million (approximately four months of disbursements).
Replenishments would be made upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that
expenditures made from it were eligible for financing, for a minimum amount of
US$2.5 million or when half of the revolving fund has been utilized, whichever
is sooner. Should any disbursements made from the special account not be
acceptable to the Bank, Government would be required to deposit the
corresponding ineligible amount into the special account, or if the Bank so
requests, refund to the Bank an equal amount.
3.10        When the total unwithdrawn amount of the part of the loan that is
expected to be disbursed at loan closure would be equal to twice the initial
deposit of the special account, or six months before closing the loan,
whichever is first, the recovery process will start. Any balance outstanding
after all eligible expenditures are made would be refunded to the Bank.
D. Accountina and Audits
3.11        The Central Bank would retain records of all transactions under
the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. All accounts
(including the revolving fund) would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and audit reports would be sent to the Bank within nine
months of the end of the borrower's fiscal year. Audit reports would include
a separate opinion on claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of SOE's and
would state whether the claims were made in accordance with the terms of the
loan.
B. Reporting - Suipervision. Monitorina and Evaluation
Su2ervision. Mid-Term Review and Sector Dialoaue
3.12        The project would be supervised twice a year during
implementation, once in October/November prior to finalization of the next
year's budget to conduct the annual review of new commitmernts to be undertaken
and of progress on the Development Action Plan, and a second time about six
months later in May/June.
3.13        Supervision during the latter period would include an agricultural
expenditure review. This review would update monitoring data on budget
performance over the previous year, and analyze budget progress on selected
key issues such as subsidies, transfers to public agencies, adequacy of
recurrent budget allocations, and budget decentralization to the CRDAs. These
topics would be discussed with Government as part of the ongoing policy
dialogue to be maintained under the ASIL, with timing coming during initial
Ministerial preparations of submissions for the subsequent budget year.
3.14        A Mid-Term Review of progress under the ASIL would take place in
the fall of 1995 after completion of the second budget year under the loan.
This joint review with Government would consist of an in-depth stock-taking of
progress and problem areas in implementing the program, and a thorough
agricultural expenditure review. Recommendations for corrective measures



- 37 -
would be implemented without delay in the case of institutional responses,
while changes affecting new investments would become effective for the 1996
budget year. The mid term-review would also provide the foundation for
separate analytical work to be undertaken by the Bank in support of the
preparation of the 9th Five Year Plan (1997-2001).
3.15        Estimated supervision inputs are indicated in Annex 2.
supervision requirements are estimated at 5 staff weeks in FY94, 17 in FY95,
and 20 in FY96, 10 in FY97 and 3 in FY98, for a total of 55 staff weeks over
the five-year implementation period. These estimates take into account the
need for more intensive supervision at the beginning to ensure successful
institution building, strengthening of the investment preparation and
selection process (including environmental review), and advancement of the
agricultural reform program. Staff savings have been anticipated in the
latter years because of overlap with the planned preparation of a subsequent
ASIL.
Monitorina and Evaluation
3.16        DGFE would be responsible for the monitoring of overall project
progress based on information obtained from the Departments and agencies of
the MOA involved in the loan. This information would encompass indicators of
progress under the loan as defined in Annex 5. Monitoring would also focus on
procurement eligible for reimbursement under the Loan (para. 3.06) including
execution of contracts, control of force account works and loan disbursem nt,
expenditure of MOA investment resources, and progress in institution building.
Monitoring of policy progress would be conducted jointly with DGPDIA.
Progress reports would cover semi-annual periods of the calendar year, and
would be submitted no later than three months later. The final project
completion report would be prepared by DGFE.
F. Benefits
3.17        Since the loan would support the MOA's entire investment
portfolio, with specific projects only to be identified through annual
consultations, it is not feasible to do a formal rate of return analysis.
However, all projects to receive loan financial resources would fulfill
economic rate of return and/or environmental and social criteria. Recognizing
that availabillty of resources through the Loan indirectly enables the MOA to
undertake marginal projects in their pipeline, the institutional strengthening
component of the ASIL focusses on improving investment planning,
priorltlzatlon and preparation so as to improve investment benefLts.
Representative economic rates of return for Lnvestments in the MOA portfolio
that would be flnanced by the ASIL are 13 percent for the fishing ports,
12.6 percent for the hill dams and associated LrrigatLon perimeters, and
12 percent for the reglonal soil and water conservation plans. For the
tubewell investments, comparable new projects have achieved rates of return of
15-21 percent and rehabilitation projects rates typically well above
20 percent.3V
F Central Irrigation Project (Ln 2234-TUI) Cotpletion Report, April 1, 1993.



- 38-*
3.18        The bulk of the investments have a direct benefit in terms of
increased production and income. These would have a positive impact
principally on the welfare of farmers and fishermen, in most cases small scale
and poor. The fish port investments are directly targeted at isolated fishing
villages and small scale operations. The hill dams and associated irrigation
perimeters are predominantly in hilly areas of the north and central parts of
the country where average agricultural incomes are lower than average, while
the comparable income effects are expected from tubewell irrigation
investments which would concentrate in the central region. The livestock
vaccination and animal disease surveillance investments would not only prevent
animal diseases from spreading to human populations, but also reduce losses of
heFders. Animal genetic and pasture improvements investments would increase
the productivity of livestock herds and contribute to farmer income. These
investments are well distributed across rural areas, including regions
considered disadvantaged by the Government, and where job creation is priority
as a means of limiting the rural exodus to cities.
3.19        Rural potable water projects would benefi. isolated communities
that currently have inadequate access to safe water. Many of the benefited
communities rely on sources that are unreliable during the dry season, often
paying for expensive water transported by cistern, or travelling longer
distances to find sources. The projects thus reduce time requirements for
this chore, reduce the burden on household budgets, and improve hygiene.
3.20        The project would also bring environmental benefit. as discussed
below, while negative impacts would be mitigated by procedures to be
reinforced during the project as presented in para. 2.77.
G. Environmental rmDact
3.21        The investments to be supported by the ASIL encompass both
positive and possible negative environmental impacts. Tunisian environmental
law requires environmental impact studies and implementation of mitigation
plans for activities with potentially major negative impacts, and
environmental notices for activities with lesser impacts. Loan activities in
the first category consist of hill dams and new fishing port construction,
while irrigation perimeters and fish port improvements come under the second
category.
3.22        To ensure adequate implementation of these laws as well as
compliance with Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment",
mechanisms and guidelines were established during appraisal to ensure that MOA
Directorates responsible for investment projects preparation would ensure
completion of the necessary environmental Impact study or notice for
submission and approval by the ANPE prior to the project being accepted for
financing under annual budgets, and review by the Bank to permit ASIL
financing. For the first year of the ASIL, implementation of these new
procedures will require strict adherence to a tight processing schedule. For
the fishing ports expacted to enter into the 1994 budget, project design and
technical document&ion had reached an advanced stage prior to agreement on
these procedures, t - is now being complemented with an environmental impact
assessment that is currently under preparation for submission to the ANPE.



- 39 -
For the hill dams, terms of reference for the environmental impact assessments
were agreed during appraisal and the organization identified that will carry
out this first round of assessments, and the studies are expected to begin
immediately upon selection of sites identified for inclusion in the 1994
budget. Completing these studies and receiving ANPE approval is anticipated
to occur within six months, and ASIL financing would be contingent upon
satisfactory review and modification of project design to reflect
recommendations of the review.
3.23        Construction and operation of the hill dams present the most
significant potential impacts on the environment and neighboring populations.
Their modest scale -- crest heights ranging from 12-20 meters and net storage
capacity of 500,000-600,000 m3 -- results in the principal environmental
concerns relating to erosion in the catchment area and altered downstream
hydrology. Erosion prevention is addressed in the planning stage, and
watershed plane established as a prior condition to dam construction.
Management plans for reservoir releases, which take into consideration
downstream hydrology, are prepared and implemented by the Directorate of Water
Resources. Single or multiple use hill dams have different downstream impacts
that would be taken into consideration in the environmental study mitigation
plans. Irrigation perimeters associated with the dams are small, typically
less than 125 hectares per dam (as is also the case for the tubewell
irrigation projects to be financed by the loan).
3.24        Some hill dams would be designed partially or exclusively for
groundwater recharge. Existing and future dams with this purpose are coupled
with a groundwater monitored and modelling program to determine their impact
and improve reservoir release procedures. This program has already
contributed to significant watertable recovery in several aquifers and
permitted relaxation of restrictions on tubewell licensing, and expansion of
irrigation activities.
3.25        Resettlement, if it occurs at all on projects financed by the
loan, would only be an issue with hill dam construction, and is likely to be
limited to several households at a few sites. No resettlement would be
necessary for the five hill dams included in the first year of the loan. If
resettlement appears necessary as plans for subsequent years advance, it would
occur under procedures that fulfill the requirements of the World Bank's
operational Directive 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement". A more general
consequence of the hill dam program is the need to expropriate portions of
farm enterprises in the flood zone of the reservoir. Procedures for
determining the affected parcels and parties, compensation, and legal action
if amicable compensation agreements cannot be reached exist and would continue
to be applied. They would be supplemented with actions to ensure local
participation, compensation as determined on the basis of replacement value,
and the option given to affected population to receive land, if desired.
Furthermore, the government will commit itself to take all measures necessary
to assist in the resettlement and relocation, so as to ensure that the
affected population is at least restored to the previous living standard.
submission of a satisfactory resettlement program or plan would be a condition
of commitment of loan resources to the construction of specific hill dams
where resettlement is involved.



- 40 -
3.26        The construction of the small-scale fishing ports has local
effects on coastal sedimentology and hydrology, potential damage to sea bed
grass ecosystems if there is inappropriate siting of dredged sediment
disposal, and impacts of quarrying for construction material. Most of these
concerns are already studied in the technical preparation of the investments,
and would be complemented with additional analysis to permit completion of
mitigation plans. For two fishing ports in advanced stages of preparation,
such documentation would be synthesized by APIP for review by the ANPE.
3.27        Investments to be supported by the loan in soil and water
conservation would have a range of positive environmental impacts. They would
reduce sediment transported from cropped land and waterways that is ultimately
deposited in downstream hydrological infrastructure, thereby reducing the
economic life of dams and increasing maintenance costs of irrigation systems.
Soil conservation and revegetation interventions along water courses would
also assist in maintaining water flows for longer periods during the year.
rn-stream civil works such as weirs and check dams are being used to improve
infiltration and groundwater recharge, and also to reduce the erosion of
stream banks and other damage of flood crests.
3.28        The pilot project component to assist parcel consolidation in
dryland areas would ultimately help define approaches to limit soil erosion
caused by current patterns of land holdings. It would address inheritance
practices that currently lead to land parcels being divided into narrow
rectangular plots oriented with the slope of the land, and that thereby impede
mechanized tillage following contour lines and accentuate soil erosion.
Parcel consolidation would help alleviate technical and incentive constraints
that currently contribute to low interest in measures to prevent soil erosion.
H. Dam Safety Risks
3.29        In accordance with the Bank Guidelines for "Safety of Dams," the
project provides for the following specific measures to ensure safety of the
proposed Hill Dams:
(i)   Enoineerina - two firms with international expertise and with
extensive experience in earth dams have been engaged by the GOT under
contract with DGEGTH and have been working on the feasibility studies
and detailed designs of the proposed hill dams and preparation of
contract documents and also to assist GOT with construction supervision;
(ii) Panel of Exgerts - an independent Panel of Experts, acceptable to
the Bank is proposed to be established soonest, to review the design
concept, layout of structures, design parameters, detailed design of the
proposed hill dams, and procedures for emergencies, inspection and
maintenance. The Panel would initially consist of two experts with
expertise in earthen dams (including soil mechanics), geology and
hydrology;
(iii) Instrumentation - the necessity or otherwise of the
instrumentation for the proposed hill dam(s) will be reviewed by the



- 41-
Panel when the detailed designs are finalized and the required
instrumentation will be incorporated as considered essentiall and
(iv) Dam Safety Insgections durina Operation - periodic dam safety
inspections after construction would be carried out by the DGEGTH. All
works completed under the project including the dam, allied structures,
equipment, access roads and bridges would be maintained by GOT.
Assurances were obtained from GOT during negotiations that all
structures and other works constructed under the project would be
maintained by GOT in accordance with sound engineering practices.
I. Risko
3.30        The principal project risks are delays in adequate policy
performance and investment components that only marginally fulfill selection
criteria in later years of the ASIL. The first is addressed by linking new
investment commitments (but not disbursements on previous commitments) in sub-
sectors to adequate progress on policy measures spelled out in the DAP. This
creates incentives for line managers in the MOA responsible for policy changes
to carry them out. The second is addressed by including strengthening of
investment planning and preparation in the Project, with a specific focus on
sub-sectors where this is weakest.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
assurances and Acreements
4.01        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
ii)   the Government would, beginning with its fiscal year 1994,
prepare and furnish to the Bank: (a) for the Bank's review and comment,
the Borrower's agricultural investment program for the following fiscal
year, together with a financing plan therefor; and (b) for the Bank's
review and approval, a detailed description of the investment activities
to be carried out under the Project (para. 2.08). For 1994, information
for such consultations will be provided no later than April 30, 1994;
(ii) the Government would implement the Development ActLon Plan and
the reforms detailed in the attached policy matrix according to the
specified timetable;
(iii) for any sub-projects that require resettlement of the existing
population, a resettlement program or plan satisfactory to the Bank
would be prepared as a requirement for commitment of resources from the
Loan (para. 3.25);
(iv) for sub-projects requiring environmental impact studies and
mitigation plans, these would be prepared, submitted for approval by the
National Agency for Environmental Protection, and found satisfactory by



- 42-
the Bank as a requirement for commitment of resources from the Loan for
such sub-projects (para. 2.75)S
(v)    the Government would employ a panel of experts, acceptable to the
Bank, to: (a) review for all HDs exceeding 10 meters in height or having
a gross storage volume of more than 2.5 million m3, the concepts of the
dame and their associated structures, the adequacy of their design, and
procedures for emergencies, maintenance and inspection; and (b) conduct
reviews during final design and construction. Modifications of design,
construction, and procedures for emergencies, maintenance and inspection
acceptable to the Bank as recommended by such reviews would be carried
out as a requirement for commitment of ASIL resources (para. 2.20);
(vi)   a special account would be opened on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.09);
(vii) independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would audit project
accounts annually along with the Special account and the statements of
expenditures used to justify disbursements under the Bank Loan; audited
financial statements would be submitted to the Bank, with the audit
report, within nine ronths after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 3.11);
(viii) an Oversigh Committee responsible for overall coordination would
be established within the MOA not later than May 31, 1984 (para. 2.82);
(ix)   procurement of goods and works would be carried out in accordance
with Bank guidelines and procedures acceptable to the Bank, and that
employment of consultants would follow the Bank guidelines (paras. 3.03
and 3.04); and
(x)    a mid-term review would be undertaken jointly with the Government
not later than October 31, 1995.
Conditions of Effectiveness
4.02        As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan Government
would:
(i)   employ a firm to begin a diagnostic and planning study on agrarian
restructuring, to support legislative reform and prepare a pilot
intervention; and
(ii) publish the Decree for the Tunisian Veterinary Research Institute
(IRVT).
Recommendation
4.03        Based on the above assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$120 million to the Republic of Tunisia for a term of 17 years
including 5 years of grace. The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1998.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
DEVELOPMENT ACTION PLAN POLICY MATRIX
Medium-term objectives                   Problems and constraints                       Medium-term program                ASIL actions and policy reforms
HYDRAULICS SUB-SECTOR
Improve system management of    Despite good use of existing management tools    Carry out activities for
the North Tunisia water          (simulation models), a lack of up-to-date           improving water management of
network.                         techniques constrains optimal management.          the North Tunisia water network.
Allocation of available resour'es are made         Develop an economic model to aid
without the help of economic models                water allocation and conjunctive
(incorporating crop characterisitics and water   use of surface and groundwater,
quality), which results in a loss of               taking account of "crop yield -
agricultural production potential.  Water          water consumption" and "yield-
economies are restricted by the lack of            salinity" relationships, in
monitoring and the absence of a modern             order to maximize benefits or
management information system encompassing         limit losses during droughts.
hydraulic data, water releases, flows and          Undertake studies to improve
deliveries to CRDAs, SOWEDE. etc.  The             procedures for exploitation of
multiplicity of participants in management of    the system.
water resources complicates planning.
coordination and implementation of water
resource allocation.
Optimise the investment          Agricultural. socio-economic and environmental   Program to construct 200 hill          Prepare and begin implementing in 1994 a
program for hill dams.           uncertainties exist regarding the benefits         dams over 10 years, as part of       monitoring system to permit evaluation           *e
from hill dams.  Without the concurrent            an integrated national plan for    of the investment program.
implementation of a watershed management plan    water mobilization.  Principal
to limit erosion, the useful life of hill dams   uses of the mobilized water will   Prepare an impact assessment of a sample
will be significantly shortened.                   be groundwater recharge and         of hill dam prototypes by October 1995.
irrigation. Sites and technical
plans are being selected for
maximum return and minimum
environmental impact and
resettlement needs. The unit
responsible for the program will
prepare and implement a
monitoring program to permit
evaluation of the dam
investments, will organize
training in anaylsis of the
environmental impacts of the
investments, and will update
directives for the estimation of
benefits.
oQ¢
ax
0
H'



Improve water use efficiency    Underutilization of irrigation capacity in         Apply binomial tariffs where        Test studies and farmer contacts in 1993
in distribution systems and     perimeters in the Northwest and Northeast.         capable of improving irrigatfon    and 1994; application of binomial tariff
fields.                         Highly variable parcel size in perimeters in       efficiency.  Form user groups       in 1995.
the Northeast that use low pressure sprinkler    for water distribution, with
systems.                                          progressive expansion of their      Prepare a strategy for a national
responsibilities.to maintenance.   campafgn and detailed program for 1994-
Inefficient methods are used on 80 percent of    Prepare a national campaign to       97 with technical support (parcel
irrigated area. Research on adaptation of         find solutions to inefficient       irrigation technologies, drainage,
improved technology is not diffused, applied      water use. beginning with a         agronomy, socio-econamy. institutional
or even completed.  The lack of monitoring of    review  of existing research on    issues); the preparatory study will
water applications and the lack of knowledge      field-level water use, followed    address institutional issues and
on real time water needs at the field level       by a next phase of research and    establish personnel. equipment and
limits gains on water savings.                    dissemination of results.           financial needs.
Reinforce the CRGR.
Undertake a research program under the
guidance of a expert panel, with an
evaluation report on preliminary results
prepared for 10196.
Farm tests of selected approaches to
permit extension of confirmed techniques
beginning in 1997.
Achieve complete recovery of    Irrigation water costs vary widely across          Establish a phased plan for         Increase irrigation water charges, by 9
operation and maintenance       perimeters.                                        tariff increases to include         percent annually in real terms until              >
costs for Irrigation water.                                                        costs of operations and             such time as full recovery of costs of            >
maintenance, and of provisioning   operations and maintenance is achieved
for renewal of such irrigation      according to criteria to be agreed with
equipment and infrastructure as    the Bank on the basis of a study to be
are expected to become the          completed in April 1995.
responsibility of irrigation
users associations. Annually
update analysis of cost trends
(to be carried out by a unit in
the DGGR, based on CRDA budgets
and ad hoc calculations).
Impact of water charges on farm profits varies   Establish pragmatic objectives       Complete by April 1995 a study of PPIs
greatly fromn one unit to another even within     for cost recovery within the        to analyze the financial impact on
the same perimeter.                               framework of supportability.        typical farm types of irrigation water
charges and to estimate and analyze the
cost of water.
Put in place and operate a ;!nitoring
system beginning in 1996.
0
o...
on



Assure safe drinking water       Lack of experience by the rural population in   Create 375 systems serving 670
to 340.000 inhabitants in       operation and maintenance of simple drinking       localities, based on continued
rural areas, and establish      water systems.                                     implementation of the national
user associdtions                                                                  rural potable water strategy for
responsible for operation                                                          establishing user groups, and on
and maintenance of the water                                                       application of investment
points.                                                                            criteria consisting of
investment cost ceilings for per
____________________________                 beneficiary.
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR
6eographically reorient         Under-exploitation and investment in the North   Encourage fishing in the North        Implementation beginning 1995 of a
fishing to improve the          and over-exploitation and investment in the        using subsidies, incentives and    master plan for development of fishing
balance of resource use.        South; difficult climate conditions in the         improved port infrastructure.       in the north, and in particular of
North which limit fishing with current                                                recommendations relative to the use of
equipment.                                        Creation of a port agency (APIP)   economic incentives.
to be responsible of port
management and monitoring of        Completion by 10/94 of an INSTOP
investment activities.             evaluaton of fish resources in the
north.
Establishment and application of
procedures of carrying out
environmental impact studies of
fish port construction.
Regular updating by INSTOP of                                                       4,
the regional monitoring and                                                         tn
evaluation of fisheries
.___________________________________________ . resources.                                                                   i
Improve the quality of          Application of more strict import quality          Program of private and public       Presentation by 10/94 of an action plan
fisheries products.             standards by the EEC beginning 1996.               investment, training and quality   to be carried out by OHPV for fish
regulation to ensure Tunisian       product quality beginning in 1995.
compliance with EEC
l____________________________                                                       r uirements.                       ___________________________requirements.
to
0
on



LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
Improve animal health.           Persistance of major animal diseases.                Undertake prophylaxis compaigns    Complete before October 1994 a study to
Increasing public budget costs of                  with a target of 75 percent           define and subsequently carry out a
vaccinations.                                       coverage for tuberculosis.           program acceptable to the Bank for:  (I)
brucellosis, rabies, foot-and-       progressive cost recovery of the
mouth disease and sheep pox.         obligitory vaccination campaigns and
Privatization of veterinarian        laboratory analyses; and (ii)
services.  Establishment of a        integration of private veterinarians in
disease surveillance network for   the obligatory vaccination campaigns
the collection. analysis and         (through expanded use of service
exchange of epidemiological          contracts).
data, including development of
specialized laboratories.            Publish the decree for the IRVT by loan
effectiveness.
Publish the decrees concerning creation
of regional laboratories. as foreseen in
the decree for IRVT. before october
1995.
Improve livestock                Growing domestic demand for animal products         National program of genetic           Complete by January 1995  the transfer
productivity.                    covered in part through increasing imports of    improvement, consisting of:  (i)   of artificial insemination centers from
milk and meat.  Local breeds of sheep and           artificial insemination; (ii)        CRDAs to the OEP. which will implement a
cattle having low productivity.  Unmet demand    selective breeding; (iii)               program for phased and progressive cost
for improved breeds.                                performance monitoring; (iv)         recovery.
testing and selection; and (v)
recordkeeping;                       Complete by October 1994 a study to
define and subsequently carry out a
program acceptable to the Bank for: (i)
privatisation of services for genetic
improvement; and (ii) establishment of
the legal and regulatory framework for
the national genetic improvement
program.
Improve the availability of      Difficulty in meeting the growing feed               Improve pasture and forage           Complete by October 1994 formulation of
animal feed and fodder           requirements of the national herd.                   production (with OEP, CES. the       a strategy for national pasture
resources.                       Degradation and shrinking of pastoral areas.        Forestry Department).                 improvement that will define subsequent:
Limited participation of herders which only                                              (i) interventions based on beneficiary
gained through recourse to compensatory and         Identify existing pasture users    participation; and (ii) management and
financial incentives.                               and user rights in collaboration   use of improved pastures.
with CES and the Forestry
Department.                          Implement beginning in 1995 a calendar
for progressive increases in
Analyse production systems           participation of herders in the
(benefits. impact, and               development costs of improved pastures.
sensitivity).                                                                        eo
0
km%



Improve the quality of           Inadequate legislative framework for                 Strengthen quality control of        Reinforce the personnel of the OHPV and
animal products.                  regulation of product health safety.                animal products whether local or   provide it with a separate budget line
Multiplicity of actors in hygiene regulation        imported.  Improve product           for Investments beginning with the 1995
(Min. of Agric., Min. of Public health, Min.        inspection through privatization   Fiscal year.
of Interior  Min. of Nat. Economy) with poor        of veterinarian services.  Allow
coordination despite the existance of an            prices to reflect quality            Increase progressively beginning in 1994
interministerial committee.  Quality               differences.                          the use of existing standard contracts
differentials are not reflected in pricing                                               between tte Administration and private
policy for meat and milk.                           Strengthen laboratory capacity       veterinarians for the inspection of
to conduct quality analyses.         slaughterhouses, milk collection
centers, and animal feed mills. on the
Improve price incentives to          basis of applicant demand for such
market quality meat through          contracts.
progressively replacing the
existing two quality price           Prepare a program for the establishment
structure used by public retail    of HIDAOA units in strategic regions
butchers with a system of meat       (coastal, touristic, metropolitan) by
cuts and quality including           10/94.
origin information.
Establish by 10/94 a pilot action
Permit milk prices to reflect        program for their management and
quality and seasonal supply          inspection, and control of clandistine
effects.                             slaughtering. in collaboration with the
three Municipalities for where new
slaughterhouses are foreseen.
SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION
Improve the legal and            Absence Gf a legal framework of the activities   A draft CES law has been                 Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of
institutional framework.         of the CES.  Narrow operational focus of CES        prepared by the MOA and will be    the draft Soil and Water Conservation
activities and lack of integration with other    submitted to the Prime Minister.   Code by October 1994.
MOA units' activities.  Technical isolation of   Decentralization of CES
local staff and work load that does not permit   activities is underway, and is
for adequate preparation and analysis.              to be reinforced by:  (i)
presentation of annual CES
programs, by Region, indicating
the type, scope. and location of
coordinated interventions
planned by other MOA units; and
(ii) implementation of annual
training for regional CES staff.
OQ
VI
U'"
00
me



Involve local beneficiaries.   Inedequate integration of CES activities in         Initial experiments with            Annual implementation of a plan for
agricultural production especially at the farm   contracting directly with small    progressive implementation of specific
level.  Insufficient maintenance of some CES      farmers to undertake CES            CES activities by private enterprises:
investments because of low level of               activities on their farms are       85% in 1994 and 90% in following years.
involvement of farsars. The strategy for          underway in several Regions.
involving farmers is ad hoc and lacks general    Involving farmers and expanding    Preparation of a plan for progressive
principals and implementation norms.              private contracting are part of    implementation of specific CES
Implementation of most CES works remains by       the CES strategy.  The MOA has      activities in watersheds by users
force account, with employment creation a         recently (2/93) established         groups, within one year of approval of
goal.  Implementation by private contractors      directives on investments in        the SIWC Code by the Chamber of Deputies.
remains limited.                                  hill ponds.
Plans for expansion of use of
contracts with farmers and
private contractors must
indicate and program for local
administrative changes that
would be needed.
6eneral principals and an
implementation strategy need to
be established for improving
local participation in CES
activities, with specific
extension to the hill ponds
_____________________________________________   investment program.                 _
Better plan public              Despite considerable progress in watershed and   A ten year 1990-2000 national         Annual completion of CES regional plans         co
interventions.                  regional planning of CES activities, existing    strategie for CES exists.             for two Governorats.  (ASIL will only
activities are poorly integrated into             Regional CES plans exist for six   finance CES activities in regions with a
agricultural production systems. use outmoded    (of 23) Governorats. CES has         completed plan.)
techniques, and resin too centralized.            tested use of a geographic
information systen (GIS) to
strengthen its planning.
Implementation directives for
the hill ponds investment
program have been established
(2/93) and will include
watershed management planning.
By end-199S, CES will complete
an evaluation of existing
planning approaches and adoption
of new methods to improve
integration of CES in land use
planning and agricultural
production systems.
QQ
Pt
00



Improve the economic and        Despite a technical sophistication regarding       A comprehensive evaluation of       Formulate a monitoring and evaluation
social impact of techniques      physical works at the micro-level, basic data    CES techniques was completed In    functional capacity, and establish a
used by CES.                     is lacking at the watershed scale regarding       1991 and followed by a national    unit responsible for its impimentation
physical and ecological impacts; biological       conference on its conclusions.      within CES prior 10/94.
techniques for erosion control are less well      A commission grouping Forestry
understood.                                       and CES perspectives is defining
CES research needs for
Available socio-economic data are often           programming by IRESA.
insufficient for planning and implementation
of CES interventions; economic analysis of
past investments has proven impossible.
INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
Strengthen monitoring and        Increasing importance of decentralized CRDAs      Strengthen the means and            Implement a study for the establishment
evaluation of the investment    in the management of the investment budget.        procedures for preparation,         of an integrated monitoring and
budget.                                                                            monitoring and evaluation of        evaluation system for the DGFE. and
projects at the CROA and central   establishment of a project procedures
(DGFE) levels.                     manual, before 10/94.
Create a unit in the CRDAs corresponding
to the central investment budget
.____________________________      - monitoring  capacity   in  the  OGFE.
Establish a medium term plan for   Complete before 4/95 an analysis of CRDA         4>
Develop and reinforce the       Absence of medium range planning for personnel   the changing functions and needs   needs as a consequence of privatisation,           '
decentralization of the         and budget needs.  CRDAs are responsible for       of CRDAs, beginning with a          increasing support for user groups, and
CRDAs.                          activites that require different management        generalization of the               decentralization of investment budget
and accounting practices but are obliged to       administrative studies              management.  Establish central means of
use adminstrative budget accounting.              undertaken for two CROAs (Ariana   managing and monitoring the resulting
Recruitment restrictions because of a hiring      and Kairouan).  Concentrate CROA   action plan.
freeze and lack of central staff interest in      strengthening on adminstrative
transfering to CRDAs.                             management and on irrigation
water operations.
0
a0



Promote and strengthen users    Diversity of needs and interest in users                                                   Extension of the responsibilities of the
groups for the management of    associations depending on local conditions and                                             existing CRDA support units for potable
natural resources. public         the type of activity.  Decrease in cash flow                                             water AICs to all natural resource AICs
infrastrucuture, and the         of CROAs and consequent budget impact.                                                    after an evaluation to be completed by
transition to commercial                                                                                                   April 1995.
activity:
- Rural potable water           Existing water points with a tradition of free
access.
- Forestry                      Creation of AFICs is promoted through
permitting access to new revenue generating
activities.
- Soil and water                With limited prospects for financial gain,
conservation                      interest in forming users groups remains weak.
- Irrigation systems            In the largest and most established perimeters   Realisation of an action plan to
managed by CRDAs, it is difficult to promote        be carried out under DGGR
AICs with the current lack of detailed O&M          guidance for the creation of
cost information.                                   AICs in the large irrigation
perimeters (Upper and Lower
Medjerda valleys, Cap Bon,
Sahel) based on a perimeter-                                                           tn
level identification of farmer                                                        o 
opportunities and incentives to
___________________________  _establish  user  groups.
AGRARIAN REFORM
Work towards the evolution       Awareness of the value restructuring land            Carry through the process of         Begin work by loan effectiveness on a
of physical and human            holdings in rainfed areas has developed later    establishing the legislative             diagnostic and planning study that will
variables of agricultural        than for irrigated areas.                            framework.                           support the legislative process and
activity in order to improve                                                                                               prepare for future investments.
productivity and profits.        Strong sociological constraints linked to           Acconpany the promulgation of        Complete a draft final report for this
Extend and complete the          technical difficulties and lack of means has        needed laws by preparatory and        study by October 1994.
extention of existing            put off initiatives regarding land reform.          feasibility studies that
regulations affecting                                                                elaborate the technical and           Begin implementation of a pilot project
irrigation perimeters to         Preparation of the 8th Plan has included            financial actions to be used to    operation beginning no later than the
rainfed agricultural lands.      preparation of legislative texts including one   encourage restructuring.                 start of the 1996 budget year.
which addresses agrarian restructuring and one
addresses prevention of parcel fragmentation.    Prepare an expanded program for
implementation in the 9th Plan.
M:\MlNK\ASILSAR\MAT-EN6.TAB                                                                                                                                                   o
me



- 51 -
Annex 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICVLTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Bank Supervision Plan
Approximate              Activity               Expected Skill    Staff
Dates                                         Requirements    Weeks
3/94     Project Launching Workshop       Task Manager            5
(TM),
Procurement (P),
Ehvironment (E),
Livestock (L)
10/94     Review of 1995 Budget            TM, E, Hydrology       10
Review of progress on DAP        (H), Land Reform
Review of Environmental          (LR)
Aspects
3/95     Procurement Procedure Follow-   TM, P,                   7
up                               Disbursement,
Disbursement Procedure Follow-  Fiscal (F), Soil
up                               Conservation
Soil Conservation Review
10/95     Mid-term Review                  TM, F, H, L            13
Review of 1996 Budget
3/96     Review Implementation            TM, H, L                 7
10/96     (Combined with ASIL II           TM, H                    7
Preparation)
Rev4 w of 1997 Budget
Review of progress on DAP
3/97     (Combined with ASIL II Pre-      TM, F                   3
appraisal)
3/98     Project completion mission       TM                       3
(Combined with ASIL II SPN)



- 52 -
Annex 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ASIL ComDonent Cost Summary.
1994 and 1995-1997
ASIL Components
Budget Cost                 ASIL Financing
94   95-97  Total            94  95-97  Total
---- D millions ----         --- US$ millions---
Hill dams                 7.5    26.0    33.5           4.6  14.1   18.7
Resettlement              0.0     0.2     0.2           0.0   0.0    0.0
Irrigation perimeters
o new                 8.4    22.4    30.8           5.1  12.0   17.1
o rehabilitation    13.0      1.3    14.3           8.0   0.0    8.0
Rural potable water       5.9    38.6    44.5           3.6  21.3   25.0
Groundwater surveys      10.0    14.5    24.5           6.1   7.5   13.6
Livestock
o Vaccination
campaigns          0.8      4.6     5.3           0.8   4.2    5.0
o Pub. hygiene        0.0     1.7     1.7           0.0   1.2    1.2
o Surveillance
network             0.5     2.8     3.3           0.5   2.4    2.9
o Genetic
improvement        0.0      2.3     2.3           0.0   2.0    2.0
o Pasture
improvement        1.7      5.7     7.4           1.0   3.1    4.1
Fisheries
o Small ports         0.0    10.2    10.2           0.0   5.6    5.6
o Quality program    1.2      4.5     5.7           0.7   2.5    3.2
Soil conservation         2.7    16.8    19.5           1.6   9.3   10.9
Agrarian restructuring   0.0      0.6      0.6          0.0   0.3    0.3
Studies, training
research                0.5     1.0     1.5           0.5   0.9    1.4
Monitoring and
evaluation
o DG/FE               0.3     0.1     0.4           0.2   0.0    0.2
o D/CES               0.0     1.0     1.0           0.0   0.8    0.8
TOTAL                    52.4   154.4   206.8          32.8  87.2  120.0



- 53 -
Annex 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPI!BLIC OF IUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Disbursement
Bank FY and              -                                    Cumulative
Semester            Semester            Cumulative       Disbursement (t)
FY94
June 30, 1994 \               5                    5                   4
FY95
December 31, 1994            10                  15                   13
June 30, 1995               15                   30                   25
December 31, 1995            15                  45                   38
June 30, 1996                15                  60                   50
FY97
December 31, 1996           15                    75                  63
June 30, 1997                15                  90                   75
FY98
December 31, 1997            15                 105                   88
June 30, 1998               15                  120                  100
\1    Board presentation is expected in November 1993 and loan effectiveness
end-February 1994.



- 54 -
annex 5i
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR rNvsTNT  AN
Proiect Key Indicators
1. SECTORAL XNDICATORS
Annual agricultural investment:
current, constant prices
of which Administration, public enterprise and private
Sectoral growth
2. INVESTM$NT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Stage of physical and financial completion 1
Loan commitments and disbursements, by component
3. SUN-SEC=  PERFORMANCE
Irrication Perimeters
Input       -     number of functioning user groups (AICs)
-     tariffs, by CRDA (and estimate of coverage of O&N)
Impact      -     hectares newly in use
-     crops and area by new perimeter
-     irrigation intensification ratio 2
-     irrigation utilisation ratio 2
Rural Potable Water
Input       -     number of functioning user groups (AICs)
Impact      -     additional people served
Hill Dama 3
Input       -     time lapse between dam construction and
economic use of water
Impact      -     annual water mobilization and breakdown
of use
-     aquifer recharge impact
Soil and Water Conservation 3
Input       -     progress on private contracting
-     number of functioning AICe
Impact      -     unit costs of works
1/ To be shown for ewh of the invesme sub-component caried out by implementing agenci snd depannta
under the Ministry of Agriculture as part of the loan
t/ Both global and for irrigated area by tbe year of entry into use.
,1 Additional monitoring indicators will be defined in creating a monitoring and evaluation system for tis
component as part of the loan.



- 55 -
Page 2 of 2
Animal Health and Produc ivityv
input       -     number of contracts between private veterinarians and
the administration, and share of services delivered
under such contracts in total provision ofs
* vaccination campaigns
inspection of municipal slaughterhouse, feed mill
and milk collection centers
-     costs for vaccination campaigns (total and by head),
laboratory analyses and artificial insemination, and
share of costs recovered for each
-     number of head and percentage of national herd
vaccinated, by species and disease
-     improved pasture completed by OEP, in hectare
Impact      -     losses due to principal anlmal diseases, including
direct losses from mortality and direct losses from
morbidity (aborted fetuses, lost milk production,
reduced growth, etc.), with valves to be determined on
the basis of producer prices (on the hoof and carcass)
and retail prices for products (meat, milk, eggs,
etc.)
Fisheriex
Input       -     measure of economic incentives to fishing in
the north
Impact      -      flotilla and catch in the north
=      'compliance with EC norms, by port
4. PROGRAM REVIEW AND REPORTING
Annual Program and Budget
IBRD Supervision
Annual External Audit
Smestrial Activity Reports
Coordinating Committee Meetings
Project Mid-Term Review



MAP SECTION



8'                          90    -                    IS 10-   .......             Ii                         12-
TUNISIA                                                  J,
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                            . . 7'¢-
INVESTMENT LOAN                                    .£RZEI E   E'
z    ?    I S          n  \ /.AtiojS   NBV
*~~~~ (A.5JJ )    'v' CA                          /        rT, U4s
*  _,  ICE                  ,       ,        U  . eoAt
<~~~~~c~                          -Noj A LI xA. ,.3
5 . JELO4S KE             L      .-        .-AO. SO ASEU
(A~ ~ ~ r%o>row >                                       f        .>)M
%.~~~~S j                                   \       MAHE   
/ -ASSE     ;SD   O   ZAG)D              A /   2 FA
ffi~    ~      SLIN ''~                     p            -_.3
-   EL                N.        5iho                  /(''>3
ji                                           KA---OQAN1--
/4-                      k OER}z   /<ki
U.'                     ,/                     (       N @Kbli >
\~~                                                             .. i   '4K':                                           3_''
/               ,ASRN ;      r       , ~ EC,,,, lIDno I
35.   ~                                 -- .J                  .._.                                   _         ,t3
,<~ ~ .~    <" /    SFi
. ,                        .-~"              /
GASSA~~~~
-. ~ ~ RIER                             '                                                             
32  __   ISOHYETS IN__ .lMETERS                            \                       o' s
*                                           COVERN EASE   NASLUL
@~~~      ~~ NAINL AIAL\/C
-.-   INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES          \ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~~Md.T'T 
-  -  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES         \                            /~~~~~~~~~"a--    1
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~E K. S-L,AN
7A 
SPAIN  ITALY    GREECE                           \                         *                 _~~~~~~~~~ONATI
K A G  S E R I A  N                                        ' U
sfa.~a
RI VERS    GERN    f  >  >                                          \              ) N,, .-a-                                    2 A     X
SALT LKES          GAFSAa
TOVENORAE RUNDRIES /,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESES
KEBILI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR
'a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
'I--                         9           *'             10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t..m
FISH HARBRS                                                        A<  A     a-  N 



