Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22291-TUN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36610; SCL-3661A; SCPM-3661S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 120.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2001
MNSRE
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Iofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EUQIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND)
TND 1 = US$1.39
US$ 1.00 = TND 0.72
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPE         National Agency for Environmental Protection
ASAL         Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASIL2        Second Agricultural Sector Investment Project
ASSP         Agriculture Support Services Project
CRDA         Regional Commissariat for Agricultural Development
DAP          Development Action Plan
DGFE         General Directorate of Finance and Incentives
DGETH        General Directorate of Studies and Major Hydraulic Works
DCES         Directorate of Soil and Water Conservation
DGGR         General Directorate of Rural Engineering
DAP          Development Action Plan
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
EU           European Union
GIC          Groupements d'Interet Collectif (Water Users' Association)
INSTOP       National Fisheries Institute (Institut National Scientifique et Technique
d'Oceanographie et des Peches)
IP           Irrigation Perimeter
IRVT         Tunisian Veterinary Research Institute
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluating
MTASAP       Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
O&M          Operations and Maintenance
OEP          National Livestock and Pasture Agency (Office de l'Elevage et des Paturages)
PSR          Project Status Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
TOR          Terms of Reference
WSIL         Water Sector Investment Loan
Vice President: Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Director: Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader: Shobha Shetty



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
TN-AGRICULTURAL SEC INV
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    16
6. Sustainability                                                                        18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         19
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       21
9. Partner Comments                                                                      23
10. Additional Information                                                               25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005721                                        Pro ect Name: TN-AGRICULTURAL SEC INV
Team Leader: Shobha Shetty                                 TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TN-AGRICULTURAL SEC INV                         LIC/TF Number: CPL-36610;
SCL-3661A;
SCPM-366 IS
CountryIDepartment: TUNISIA                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: AF - Fisheries & Aquaculture; Al - Irrigation &
Drainage; AL - Livestock; VM - Natural Resources
Management; WR - Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/23/92                                 Effective:                     04/13/94
Appraisal:  05/28/93                                   MTR:                        10/01/96
Approval:  11/18/93                                 Closing: 06/30/99             12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
'Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                           Harinder Kohli
Sector Manager:       Doris Koehn                                Odin K. Knudsen
Team Leader at ICR.   Shobha Shetty                              Stephen D. Mink
ICR Primary Author:   Shobha Shetty
Other authors: Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS==Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The central objective of the project was to promote sectoral growth through assuring availability and
improving management of public resources. This objective comprised three strategic elements. First, the
project aimed to allocate resources so as to reorient and support public investment in activities where the
State had a justifiable role to play. Second, policy reforms and key actions were anticipated to improve the
economic impact of public investments through the incentive framework affecting either the direct use of
the investment or the undertaking of complementary private investment. Third, institutional strengthening,
primarily in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), was envisaged to improve the planning, preparation and
implementation of this investment.
The policy agenda included the following:
- increased irrigation water tariffs to improve recovery of costs of operation and maintenance;
- livestock - privatization of veterinary service delivery; improved cost recovery of publicly provided
veterinary services; and fostering of livestock sector institutional reform to support the privatization
program;
- fisheries - analysis of the effectiveness of and development of an action plan to reform the existing
incentives to promote fisheries development in the North and the establishment of an action plan;
- soil conservation - submission to the Chamber of Deputies of the draft Soil and Water Conservation
Code; adoption of action plans for the progressive implementation of soil conservation activities through
contracts with farmers and private enterprises rather than through force account;
- land reform - use of indirect incentives and strengthening of the legislative framework for land tenure to
encourage land consolidation.
The objectives of the project were realistic and consistent with the Banks overall country assistance
strategy and macroeconomic objectives, particularly regarding fiscal accounts. The project directly
supported the CAS objectives of: (i) increasing the role of the private sector in the economy; (ii) helping to
ensure that the public sector - public administration as well as public sector institutions at large - adapts to
the new outward-oriented environment and plays a more supportive role towards the private sector; (iii)
supporting the protection and better management of the country's fragile natural resources and the
environment, especially its scarce water resources; and (iv) focussing on the extemal economic integration
of Tunisia into the world markets. The project, which was built on the foundation of the Medium-Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP) begun in 1986 and supported through two
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loans (ASALS) (1986 and 1989), directly supported the Government's
investment program identified in its 8th Plan (1992-96). The project also followed up on the findings of the
Agricultural Expenditure Review (1991) within subsectors as well as recommendations for overall
strengthening of the planning and execution of public investments. The Bank essentially supported a "time
slice" of the MOA's investment program in the Eighth Plan (1992-96). The Bank's involvement through the
project was also aimed at assisting the MOA to develop approaches that would improve public investments
and policies in natural resource management, for which technical and analytical methodologies for
investment design were complex and standards needed to be improved.
The project was expected to have a direct benefit in terms of increased production and income. It was
envisioned to bring a positive impact on the welfare of farmers and fishermen, especially small scale and
poor. The investments were well distributed across rural areas, including regions considered disadvantaged
- 2 -



by the Government, and where job creation was a priority as a means of limiting the rural exodus to cities.
The project took into account main risk factors to successful project implementation, which related to
delays in adequate policy performance and only marginal fulfillment of selection criteria by investment
projects proposed by the MOA for ASIL financing beyond those reviewed for the first implementation year.
The first was addressed by linking new investment commitments in subsectors to adequate progress on
policy measures spelled out in the Development Action Plan (DAP). This created incentives for line
managers in the MOA responsible for policy changes to carry them out. The second was addressed by
including strengthening of investment planning and preparation in the project, with a specific focus on
sub-sectors where this was the weakest. The project also incorporated applicable lessons drawn from
Bank's experience in earlier projects in Tunisia, and project activities were fine-tuned based upon these
lessons (See Section 3.5)
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components.
The project consisted of the following components:
A. Investment Component. This included: (a) irrigation and water-use efficiency investments covering hill
dams and tube wells and associated small-scale irrigation infrastructure, modemization or rehabilitation of
existing irrigation perimeters, groundwater monitoring and analysis, and rural potable water; (b) natural
resource investments for small-scale fishing ports along the northem coast and other port improvements
including required investments to meet quality norms needed to maintain access to European markets, and
for soil and water conservation in priority regions; and (c) animal health and production investments for
national animal vaccination campaigns, strengthening of the animal disease monitoring network including
veterinary laboratories, and pasture and genetic improvement programs of the National Livestock and
Pasture Agency (OEP).
B. Policy Component. This agenda included: (a) increased irrigation water tariffs to improve recovery of
costs of operation and maintenance; (b) livestock - privatization of veterinary service delivery, improved
cost recovery of publicly provided veterinary services, and fostering of livestock sector institutional reform
to support the privatization program; (c) fisheries - analysis of the effectiveness of and development of an
action plan to reform the existing incentives to promote fisheries development in the North and
implementation of an action plan; (d) soil conservation - submission to the Chamber of the Deputies of the
draft Soil and Water Conservation Code; adoption of action plans for the progressive implementation of
soil conservation activities through contracts with farmers and private enterprises rather than through force
account; and (e) land reform - use of indirect incentives and strengthening of the legislative framework for
land tenure reform to encourage land consolidation.
C. Institutional Strengthening Component. This component consisted of: (a) establishing a centralized
mechanism for physical and financial monitoring of all ongoing investment projects undertaken under MOA
and CRDA supervision; (b) analysis of needs and establishment of an action plan for completing the
decentralization of MOA activities to the Regional Commissariat for Agricultural Development (CRDAs);
(c) improvements in the investment planning process of MOA Directorates responsible for livestock,
fisheries, soil conservation and water efficiency investments; (d) support for emerging resource users
groups by CRDAs through the analysis and development of an integrated and multi-disciplinary
- 3 -



institutional framework; (e) initiation of environmental review of projects, consisting of environmental
impact studies and mitigation plans for hill dams and small fishing ports, and environmental reviews for
irrigation projects; and (f) support for the implementation of institutional and operational plans regarding
pilot projects for land consolidation in rainfed areas.
3.4 Revised Components.
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Since the project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), there is no official
assessment of the project's quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at entry to be
satisfactory. As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the country
assistance strategy and the Government priorities and met the critical needs of the agricultural sector.
During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons leamed from other earlier projects in
Tunisia were considered and incorporated into the project design. These included the importance of support
for water users associations to promote cost recovery and greater beneficiary participation in irrigation
projects, and the importance of addressing land tenure issues in area development projects. A design
problem under the ASAL II arose because of the link between disbursement for investments and progress
on unrelated investment components - this was addressed in the ASIL through linking disbursements only
with relevant investment components. However, certain design flaws remained that the Bank was aware of,
but nonetheless decided to go ahead with a view to optimizing results during project implementation. These
included the following:
(i) the project (designed in the pre-logframe era) emphasized the physical investments instead of a greater
focus on the impacts of the investment on the sector. This resulted in more attention to outputs rather than
monitoring of impacts and outcomes;
(ii) although the project included important policy changes, the design did not incorporate a review of the
total public investment program of the sector. Given that the Bank (and other donors) support a relatively
small percentage of the public investment budget, this "cherry picking"approach could have masked
distortions in the non-Bank supported investments under the MOA budget. In practice, however, the
distortions were minimal because of the later mainstreaming of the technical, economic selection criteria
comparable to ASIL requirements for all investment projects in MOA regardless of financing source
including economic rate of retum (ERR), cost-effectiveness, and environmental screening measures;
(iii) the choice of such a large number of diverse components did not provide an integrated view of the
sector, but rather seemed more a like collection of components, although this was mitigated to a certain
extent by the DAP policy measures; and
(iv) while the Bank was responsive to the Govemment's request to accelerate project processing (see
Section 8), a project as complex as this could have benefitted from a longer preparation period.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
-4 -



Overall, the project, which was became effective after a gap of about five months (average for all projects
in Tunisia) succeeded in achieving its project objectives. In certain cases, the achievements were more than
expected at project preparation and even at mid-term review. At project closing, 1994-98 investment
program was completely executed and the 1999 and 2000 investment programs were at 90% and 86%
respectively. Although agricultural sector growth increased substantially in real terms during the project
period, causality cannot be assumed since there was no specific analysis carried out to assess the impact of
the project on sector growth. Since 1994 and 1995 were drought years, the impact of irrigation investments
supported by the project helped reduce the sector's vulnerability to climatic shocks in later years when the
investments became operational. Due to the absence of quantitative indicators, the poverty reduction and
employment creation impacts of the irrigation investments which, while probably positive, cannot be
measured. The project supported a number of legal and institutional reforms in the sector that succeeded in
achieving the three strategic elements of the project development objective as follows:-
(i)    Reorienting and supporting public investment in activities where the role of the State is justified:
For the hydraulics sub-sector, projects financed under the ASIL had to meet criteria for economic viability,
social objectives, and environmental impact. A minimum rate of return of 10 percent was applied to
selection of hill dams, irrigation perimeter creation/rehabilitation, fisheries ports, soil and conservation
investments, and certain tubewell investments. Cost effectiveness criteria were used for smaller tubewell
projects and potable rural water supply projects. Groundwater surveying and monitoring by the State
continued to be supported by the project because of the public good nature of groundwater resources and to
prevent overdraft and depletion of the resource base;
(ii)   Improving the economic impact of public investments through the incentive framework affecting
either the direct use of the investment or through complementary private investment: Under the ASIL,
irrigation water charges were increased annually by 9 percent in real terms, and a binomial tariff (this
tariff consists of two parts - a fixed charge based on a minimum assumed water consumption, and a
variable charge based on volume of water consumed over and above the minimum) was applied on a pilot
basis in selected CRDAs. At close of project, the cost recovery on average attained 97 percent compared to
an average of 73 percent before the project. Many CRDAs succeeded in recovering 100 percent of O&M
costs, with tariff increases in later years being limited only to the rate of inflation. The project supported
the national strategy of the promotion of water users associations - 185 GICs were operational for the rural
potable water schemes financed by the project and 73 GICs were operational under the irrigation
perimeters component. In the livestock sub-sector, ASIL supported the privatization of selected veterinary
services and introduction of progressive cost recovery of vaccines, artificial insemination, and laboratory
analyses. For the artificial insemination program, 22 authorizations by the National Pasture and Livestock
Agency (OEP) resulted in 54, 617 artificial inseminations (about 50 percent of the total). OEP also
organized two rounds of training for the private sector in this regard. The project also supported the
formulation of a strategy for national pasture improvement that defined subsequent interventions based on
beneficiary participation. The application of the revised Code for Conservation of Soils and Water included
the provision for enhancing private sector participation in the execution of civil works formerly done under
the aegis of the State. In addition, the project called for the publication of the statute regarding its new
administrative organization - this was promulgated in August 2000. The project also supported the
recommendations in the master plan for the development of fishing in the north relative to economic
incentives; and
(iii)   Institutional strengthening mainly involving improving the capacity of MOA in planning, preparing
and implementing investments: This was also largely achieved although the reinforcement of the M&E unit
in DGFE was not carried out before project closing despite strong Bank recommendations to do so in light
of the preparation of the 10th Plan, and preparation of the future Bank projects in the water sector and
- 5 -



agricultural services. However, the project succeeded in putting in place an integrated monitoring system in
the central unit of the Direction Gn&rale de Finance et Encouragements (DGFE) which was able to provide
a regular and comprehensive view of the implementation status of MOA's portfolio at the central and
CRDA levels. A small training component in environmental impact assessment (EIA) for MOA staff
responsible for relevant components aided in strengthening the EIA capacity within MOA.
The project played a significant role in initiating dialogue with the Government on several sector issues.
Many policy studies conducted under the project laid the background for future operations in agriculture
and water sectors, such as the Second Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIL2) , the Agriculture
Support Services Project (ASSP) and the Water Sector Investment Loan (WSIL). The project initiated
discussions on the sensitive issue of land reforms and succeeded in organizing high-profile national
stakeholder workshops on land tenure issues as a prelude to further strategic planning. In the Fisheries
subcomponent, the contribution of the project was very timely. At a time when the country had to deal with
new environmental regulations from the European Union, the project helped in establishing an action plan
and obtaining certification for Tunisian fisheries through the necessary investments for ensuring
compliance for access to EU markets, thus enhancing Tunisia's agricultural competitiveness.
On the other hand, the project lagged behind in rangeland improvement partly because of the drought and
partly because of the heavy administrative cost involved in following up the program. The hill dams
component while largely satisfactory on technical grounds, was weak on the socioeconomic aspects because
the economic criteria used were too narrowly focussed and did not capture the multiple benefits derived
from the hill dams in many cases. Delays in compensation to families adversely affected by the construction
hill dams continued till the close of the project although the social assessment carried out at project closing
recognized that the careful efforts of the Tunisian government to deal with expropriation and compensation
according to established procedures produced an acceptable result fully consistent with the spirit and
intentions of Bank policy. A study on CRDA restructuring which had a potential significance for the
organization and functioning of these entities was not carried out. This was initially due to delays resulting
from the cancellation of the original contract for nonperformance by the consultant and subsequent
reformulation of the terms of reference (TORs). Later, it was felt that there was little value-added in
carrying out the study since ongoing preparatory studies on agricultural services and the water sector
would already address several key issues. Further, decentralization measures were already underway with
respect to devolution of powers, planning of budgetary investments, creation of regional procurement units,
and increased financial and managerial autonomy.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Investment Component
(i) Water Mobilization and Use-Efficiency. In rural water supply, 185 projects became operational at the
end of the project, benefiting around 231,000 habitants. The social impact of this component through
improved access, positive gender impacts, reduction in water-bome diseases was positive but no attempt
was made to systematically delineate the benefits. In accordance with the 1992 national policy, Users
Associations ("Groupements d'Interet Collectif " - GICs) were put in place in all 185 projects and were
fully operational, although they continued to need periodic assistance from the CRDAs and financial
autonomy is still an issue (Note: The price of water varies from 0.2 - 0.8 TD/m3, while the average cost of
O&M is 0.445 TD/m3. Only 20% of GICs for potable rural water fully cover O&M costs (66% recover
more than 50% of operating costs). The cellule within the CRDAs for the promotion of the GICs (CGICs)
benefited from the technical assistance provided by the project through the multidisciplinary mobile team
- 6 -



that enabled them to strengthen the technical, administrative, and financial capacities of the GICs.
For the irrigation perimeters (IPs), 47 IPs were created (project objective: 30) benefiting about 4000 ha
(project objective: 2500 ha). In addition, 4 IPs were created using treated wastewater for irrigation covering
a total of about 540 ha (not originally envisaged under the project). Modernization and rehabilitation of 21
IPs benefited about 2750 ha. The modernization of the Lezdine-Utique perimeter benefitted 2059 ha. The
total number of beneficiaries was under this sub-component was around 8335, and the GICs were
operational for each of the completed projects. They continue to be strengthened through training provided
by CRDAs. The increase in irrigation tariffs was maintained at around 15 percent in nominal terms till
1999 but declined to 5 and 4 percent (in nominal terms) in 2000 and 2001 respectively because O&M cost
recovery was alnost completely achieved, and tariff increases were limited only to the rate of inflation.
Under the irrigation modernization component in Bizerte, cost recovery (CRDA/GIC and GIC/farmers)
using commercial cost and income accounting practices for 1999 was close to 100%. To avoid negative
environmental impacts due to salinization, mitigatory measures including the monitoring of the drainage
network by the Direction of Soils, and minimum tillage to optimize water utilization during winter, were
put in place.
Drainage: At the perimeter level, there was adequate attention and investment in drainage. The largest
irrigation investment, the Lezdine-Utique perimeter upgrade, had a full drainage component. Several other
perimeter investments were solely for drainage. All feasibility studies for perimeters dealt with salinity of
irrigation water and consequent drainage strategies. At the system level, the main concem at project design
was drainage in the lower Medjerda river basin. The Bank did not get involved in it because there was an
ongoing relationship and discussion on this issue between the Government and GTZ, its main impact being
on the larger public irrigation perimeters of this river basin. The ASIL consciously stayed away from
investment in this area (because of both GTZ presence and the perception of Government reluctance to
pursue a more proactive policy of promoting water users associations in these perimeters). The project
brought good resources and planning improvement to IRESA research on drainage through the partnership
with IPTRID. The priority irrigation research projects conducted by INRGREF progressed satisfactorily
with good linkages with extension teams, IRESA, and international research institutes.
Under the groundwater monitoring component, 317 exploratory wells were financed under the project
(original target: 150) of which 75 percent were positive resulting in an additional 44 MCM being mobilized
for irrigation or water supply. The project also financed the installation of 57 piezometers to enable better
monitoring of the groundwater resources and the rate of their automation increased from 15 to 29 percent
during the project. The project also promoted improved private sector participation in the execution of civil
works and in groundwater exploration that were previously carried out by the State. The increased private
sector participation was strengthened through the 1997 organization decree that formalized the private
groundwater exploration companies into a professional organization.
The project financed 15 hill dams under the country's presidential program to construct 203 hill dams
(1990-2000) as part of an integrated national plan for water mobilization, contributing an additional 20
MCM/year. No formal irrigation works were actually constructed on any of the 15 dams financed by the
Bank, although self-help irrigation activities are taking place with and without assistance from the State or
other sources. Although delayed, the implementation of this component was satisfactory in respect of
construction, but benefits were very varied in scope and scale, with the most impressive benefits having
derived from spontaneous local farmer response, and with little evidence so far of agricultural benefits
being realized in the way they were described during project preparation. Some of the dams were intended
to be operated entirely or in part for groundwater recharge. Other benefits from the dams included flood
protection, siltation and erosion control, downstream moisture retention, enhanced biodiversity protection
- 7 -



etc. which were not adequately assessed. In some cases, however, development costs per hectare have been
inordinately high, in others this has sometimes been associated with low cropping intensities. The program
could have benefited from a more rigorous methodology for the choice of sites. Since hill dams interact
with other hill dams and larger dams in a watershed, feasibility, environmental, and social impact would
have been better conducted as a two phase process, first site-by-site and then also by geographic grouping.
Further, hill dam projects need to be conceived of as development projects taking into account more
systematically the needs of water in the region for agricultural growth, livestock, the number of families,
existing living standards, flood protection needs, soil erosion, recharge of aquifers etc. Under the ASIL,
participation of the beneficiaries in the conception of the eventual use and management of the mobilized
water was minimal, and the involvement of both the beneficiaries and the CRDAs needed to be stronger in
this aspect of project preparation. These issues were subsequently discussed with the government but were
not realized during the course of the project. However, it is to the credit of the discussions engendered by
this component during ASIL that the development project approach is now being applied to projects
financed by other donors notably, the European Union (EU). The General Directorate of Studies and Major
Hydraulic Works (DGETH) is now also applying standard terms of reference for the combined and
interactive preparation of feasibility, environmental, and social aspects, by geographic groups of proposed
hill dams.
Although the calculation of the compensation payments were, in general, fair, the expropriation process
and the payment of compensation for people affected (mainly economic, not physical displacement) by the
dams were slow because of Tunisian legal procedures involving the Ministry of State Lands and Land
Policy in addition to the MOA, and the government's own predilection to resolve thomy cases (complex
hereditary issues; contested or missing title deeds) through a consensus approach. The estimates of income
losses due to inundation were exaggerated, and in most cases, the net impact on incomes has been minimal,
largely compensated by the additional revenues generated by the construction of the dam. The total land
expropriation for the dams was 630 ha or an average of 42 ha per dam. About 306 farmers were affected,
about 20 per site on average. According to information gleaned from field visits, only one person actually
had to physically relocate and look for work (currently a government chauffeur). The government and the
Bank acted in good faith throughout the project to try and resolve this issue as quickly as possible. Progress
still remains slow, but is ongoing. The last supervision mission of the Bank stated that this remains a matter
of some concem and would benefit from a more effective system (preferably computerized) of follow-up
and oversight.
The main findings of the ICR mission regarding the implementation of land expropriation and
compensation, and of the impacts on livelihoods were that:
*     The land expropriation has been carried out fairly, and compensation for lost assets has been paid
except in certain technically difficult cases where title and ownership has not been fully established.
*     The impact on livelihoods has been strongly or weakly positive, and in some cases insignificant; a
careful search failed to discover any examples of negative impact on livelihoods; however, the methods
used to assess livelihood impacts in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) were over-formal and unreliable,
and more direct observational evidence was more important;
*     With the exception of its difficulty in resolving obscure titles in a timely fashion, prevailing
Tunisian procedures have been quite adequate to the standards of the Bank's policy directive for works of
this nature; and the spirit and intention of the policy directive have been amply fulfilled, namely that those
whose assets and livelihoods may be prejudiced by a development project should be fully protected and
compensated.
(ii) Natural Resource Management. The program of investments in soil conservation was fully
-8 -



completed. Participatory planning and implementation of spatial soil/water conservation actions made
good progress. About 34,000 ha of watersheds have benefited and 416 small civil works for water
conservation and recharge were completed. An improved monitoring and evaluating (M&E) indicators
system has been established and its computerization was under way at project closing, despite problems in
collection of data. The pasture improvement program on 15,500 ha was completed with substantial
productivity gains for 5,200 beneficiaries. Certification for compliance with European Community
environmental requirements has been issued for the Tunisian fisheries and will allow them access to the EU
markets, thus enhancing Tunisia's agricultural competitiveness.
(iii) Animal Health and Product Quality. This component strengthened the capacity of the Tunisian
Veterinary Research Institute (I.R.V.T) through the financing of laboratory equipment, technical studies,
creation of a surveillance network for animal diseases and creation of associations for animal hygiene. The
project also strengthened capacity of the administration to carry out effective surveillance and diagnosis of
animal diseases.  The Government has also pursued a strategy of decentralization, privatization of
parastatal functions, and improving the efficiency of public services. This program has progressed quite
slowly and the country is at present in a transitional phase between state provision and private sector
involvement. The reforms are expected to be broadened and deepened through the new Bank-supported
Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP). The project played an important role in bridging the gap
between the closing of the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 3217-TUN) and the
follow-on ASIL2 and the ASSP. The project helped to maintain the Bank's ability to stay engaged on a
reform agenda with IRESA during this "gap" and some significant gains were achieved in overall direction
of policy for research prioritization and management.
B. Policy Component
Several reforms were successfully implemented including: (i) irrigation tariff reforms (annual increase in
real terms and the application of the binomial tariff); (ii) promotion of water users associations; (iii)
application of the revised Code for Conservation of Soils and Water which has included the provision for
enhancing private sector participation in the execution of civil works formerly done under the aegis of the
State; and (iv) the progressive privatization of veterinary services, improvement in cost recovery for
vaccines, artificial insemination, and provision of laboratory services. However, the policy reform involving
irrigation water tariffs in publicly managed schemes (15% of irrigation water) did not address the larger
issue of the irrigation water that is directly managed by the private sector (user associations, individual
farmers, corporate farms). Further, the cost of the water in the public schemes were based on
administrative rather than analytical accounting methods which underestimated the required tariff increases
to achieve full recovery of operations and maintenance costs, although this had an underlying historic
rationale. The commercial accounting agenda was earlier part of the Banks Irrigation Management
Improvement Project (Ln 2573-TUN; 1986-95) which was working with the then Offices de Mise en
Valeur (OMVs) responsible for managing the public irrigation perimeters. However, with the
reorganization of the MOA in 1989, irrigation responsibility was transferred to the CRDA, which were
administrative government entities and thus abided by administrative accounting rules. This set back the
agenda of shifting to commercial accounting rules in the management of irrigation water considerably, and
with the ASIL, it was judged highly unlikely that an agreement would be reached during preparation on a
calendar and timeframe for getting this back on track. In the meantime, an agreement to a 9% annual real
increase in average water tariffs was reached, and it was agreed that this would continue for as long as it
took before the Government completed a comprehensive review of its irrigation tariff policy. The project
preparation team was fully aware that the accounting basis for costing water was inadequate, but since the
context was not propitious for a more direct solution to this, routine increases in tariffs were achieved, and
these were themselves an incentive for Government to assess its basis for costing water and building this
-9-



into a more comprehensive tariff policy. Meantime, GTZ was piloting commercial accounting in the
Bizerte CRDA, and this fed into the Government's eventual progress on this issue.
C. Institutional Strengthening Component
The project's achievement in this component was significant: (i) measures were initiated to promote
decentralization of activities from the MOA to the CRDAs through medium-term planning of regional
personnel, budgetary, and investment needs in line with the 1991 institutional establishment of the 23
regional CRDAs; (ii) planning and project prioritization of investments in agriculture was improved
especially in light of the fact that CRDAs retained responsibility for preparation and management of about
50 percent of the agricultural investment budget. With the CRDAs being the locus of management for
irrigation development, potable water, natural resource management, and rural development projects, the
project helped to strengthen the CRDA capacity to run an investment budget, and of the MOA in the center
to prioritize/monitor/arbitrate the investment budgets presented by the CRDAs at the aggregate level; (iii)
capacities, notably in the areas of socio-economic impact evaluation and environmental impact assessment
were strengthened. The project incorporated adequate mitigation of the negative environmental impacts of
key components (irrigation development; construction/upgrading of fisheries ports) through investments in
soil erosion and range management, incentives policies that promoted irrigation water conservation, and
land policies to improve the use of soil resources which helped strengthen MOA's capacity to program
environmental reviews as required; (v) analytical work supported by the project resulted in high-profile
national consultation workshop and intemal discussions on land tenure issues as a prelude to further
strategic planning. The project also supported the successful development of a pilot intervention approach
of voluntary consolidation of fragmented parcels by ARAPPI (the agency responsible for tenure reform in
public irrigation perimeters, now known as AFA) and ODESYPANO (the regional development agency in
the north-west); (vi) Water users associations (GICs) continued to be strengthened through the financing of
key studies and the multidisciplinary mobile training team. The increases in tariffs instituted under the
project (and supplemented by other studies for tariff reforms) encouraged the institutional agenda of
shifting O&M responsibilities from CRDAs to GICs by reducing farmers' perceived costs of accepting
these responsibilities. Although the project avoided investment in the public irrigation perimeters in the
north because of the institutional management impasse caused by various factors (decaying infrastructure,
absentee farmers, physically complicated water controls, and often tariff payment arrears), the
Lezdine-Utique perimeter was successful in piloting an approach to modernize the distribution network and
concomitantly introduce GICs to improve user participation in public perimeters.
D. Environmental Aspects:
The project was classified as a Category B. Because of the time-slice design of the ASIL, it was not
possible to know in advance all specific investments which would be funded. However, the project
established guidelines, procedures, and timetables to address the environmental impacts for key project
components and these were satisfactorily adhered to. The key components were: (i) irrigation development
through small dam and tubewell construction; and (ii) fisheries ports construction and upgrading. The
project provided support to ensure MOA's capacity to program environmental reviews of these components
by including a training component in EIA procedures for relevant MOA staff. To permit ASIL financing of
individual investments in these categories, the EIAs had to be completed, reviewed by the Bank, and the
mitigation plans approved by the National Environment Protection Agency (ANPE). For the small (less
than 125 ha per site) irrigation perimeters financed under the project, financing was predicated on the
receipt of a receipt from the ANPE and acceptance of an environmental "notice" from the MOA, consistent
with Tunisian law which was also consistent with Bank policy. In accordance with Bank guidelines on Dam
Safety, the project also took adequate measures (including the recruitment of an independent panel of
- 10-



experts to review the design parameters of the proposed hill dams, and procedures for emergencies,
inspection, and maintenance) to ensure the safety of the hill dams financed under the project.
Environmental mitigation measures such as minimum tillage were implemented to improve water-use
efficiency and to facilitate drainage. At the perimeter level, there was adequate attention and investment in
drainage. The largest irrigation investment, the Lezdine-Utique perimeter upgrade, had a full drainage
component. Several other perimeter investments were solely for drainage. All feasibility studies for
perimeters dealt with salinity of irrigation water and consequent drainage strategies. The Directorate of
Soils also closely monitored the functioning of the drainage network and soil salinity to avoid salinization
(alkalization). Overall, the project had a direct positive impact on natural resources management through
the implementation of the mitigation plans, investments in soil erosion and range management, and policy
incentives that promoted irrigation water conservation, and improved use of soil resources.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Cost-effectiveness analysis for deep tubewell exploration:
The following methodology was used to determine, ex post, the cost-effectiveness of the deep exploratory
tubewells investments: Between 1990 and 1995, the annual sustainable aquifer yield in Tunisia increased
by 40 million m, of which was 80% was utilized in irrigated agriculture, the remaining 20% used in
potable water supply. Representative cropping patterns for the with-project (irrigated agriculture) which
are the least-value added were set up and compared to typical without-project cropping pattern (rainfed
agriculture) using detailed farm budgets and cost of cultivation data. A value stream of net benefits was
computed and its economic rate of return computed. This represents the ex post rate of return to
investments in deep exploratory tubewells, and the value-added from the additional renewable groundwater
resources discovered.
Main Assumptions:
i . All additional water is of reasonable quality and is wholly allocated to agricultural production.
2. Prices remain constant in real terms over the 20-year period covered in the with and without
project scenario (Specific conversion factors used for input prices and output prices are
presented in the detailed financial and economic analysis in the project files).
3. Tax and transfer policies remain constant over the same 20-year period so that economic prices
remain constant in real terms during that period.
4. Benefits from the additional water start to accrue only in the third year, allowing two years for
development of irrigation after additional resources of water have been discovered.
5. The SCF used for capital costs was estimated to be 0.84 with a foreign exchange component of
70%.
6. The opportunity cost of capital is 10 percent.
7. Farmers have no constraints in terms of access to inputs (including credit).
8. The opportunity cost of unskilled labor is estimated at 70% of the prevailing wage rate.
With the above assumptions and using a cropping pattern that was the least-value added for the
with-project situation, the net stream of benefits yielded a rate of return of 16.8 % , with a NPV of TD
(million) 12.8. Sensitivity tests indicate that with a 1-year and 2-year delay in benefits, the ERR would
have declined to 11.1% and 9.4% respectively. A 10 percent increase in capital costs would have resulted
in the ERR declining to 10.0%. The tests indicate that overall viability of the investments would be fairly
sensitive to modest declines in performance. The results here are presented only for the most conservative
case (least value-added cropping pattern). Nonetheless, these results are robust enough to demonstrate the
cost-effectiveness of the deep exploratory tubewell program.
- 11 -



Deep Tubewell Exploration: Economic Analysis Summarv. Conservative Case
Economic rate of return                    18.2
Net Present Value (millions TD)            12.8
Sensitivity Analysis:
1 year delay in benefits      14.6
2 year delay in benefits      12.9
Increase in Capital Costs by 10%        15.9
Cost-Benefit Analysis for Tubewell Irrigation:
An ex-post cost-benefit analysis for a sample of about 30 small tubewells was carried out.
The overall costs included the investment costs, O&M costs, and the pump replacement costs every seven
years. The benefits from three representative cropping patterns (in increasing order of value-added) were
computed using farm budgets and cost of cultivation data using the same methodology as in the deep
tubewell case discussed earlier. All the main assumptions listed above hold here also. The conservative
(low value-added) cropping pattern was the same as used in the deep tubewell case. All financial prices and
costs were converted to economic prices using specific conversion factors. The benefits are assumed to
come on stream in the third year of implementation starting with 40%, followed by 60%, 80% and then
100% of total benefits. The stream of net benefits was calculated and its economic rate of return was
calculated to be 20.1% with an NPV of TD 9.4 million. Results from the sensitivity analysis indicate that
with an increase in total costs of 10%, the ERR declines to 15.9%. A delay in 1-year of project benefits
would result in the ERR declining to 14.6%. The combination of a 10% increase in capital costs and a
1-year delay in benefits would result in the ERR declining to 12.8%. The results are robust across all the
scenarios attesting to the viability of the investments. Switching values indicate that benefits would have to
decline by 39%, and costs increase by 68% to maintain a minimum ERR of 10%. The high switching
values indicate that the ERR is quite robust and that the risk from these crucial variables is low.
- 12-



Small Tubewells Program: Economic Analysis Summarv - Conservative Case
Economic rate of return                   20.1
Net Present Value (millions TD)           9.4
Sensitivity Analysis:
1 year delay in benefits     14.6
2 year delay in benefits     12.9
Increase in costs by 10%               17.8
Increase in costs by 10% plus 1-year delay   12.8
in benefits
Switching Values:
- Reduction in benefits (%)            39
- Increase in costs (%)                68
Hill Dams: (the following paragraphs summarize the key findings of the ICR mission - details can be
found in the Social Assessment Report, June 2001).
The DGETH which was responsible for the planning and construction of dams, took a cost-effectiveness
approach to hill dam construction at the outset, considering that the matter of making the dams
economically viable (programme de mise en valeur), while not unimportant, was essentially something that
could be left until after construction, by other branches of the MOA. Over time, this DGETH view
gradually evolved to accommodate the need to demonstrate development benefits, partly in response to
pressure from financiers to make the economic rationale of dams more explicit, and as DGETH faced the
practical problem of convincing local stakeholders to accept the program.
The Tunisian program of hill dams made it clear at the outset that the hill dams were to be seen as
multipurpose dams. They had at least eight main purposes, which of course varied in importance according
to the situation of each individual dam. These were:
*     Groundwater recharge
*     Intensification of agriculture around the reservoir, in downstream irrigated areas and (through
periodic releases) through supplemental water supply to downstream cultivation
*     Adoption of new crops under irrigation, including arboriculture
*     Improved production of rainfed crops through supplementary irrigation
Improved livestock production
*     Improved access to potable water, for areas not already served by the rural domestic water
program
*     Protection of downstream areas against flooding, and soil erosion
*     Protection of large dams against siltation
Secondary, induced and side benefits of the hill dams would include the following:
*     The dams were expected to aid in raising local incomes in their zone of influence and to help create
local employment both during construction and after. In this way they would help counteract the prevailing
trend of rural emigration to urban areas for employment and other economic reasons, and they would assist
in poverty alleviation since many of the dams would be in resource poor areas characterized by low
incomes and living standards.
*     Enhanced soil and water conservation through associated works
- 13 -



Enhanced local biodiversity.
The economic analyses
Under the project's selection criteria, disbursement would only be effected against each individual dam if it
included an economic analysis that showed a projected IRR of at least 10 percent over the life of the dam.
The Tunisians responded by proposing for Bank financing a selection of hill dams that conformed to the
economic criteria, and which also presented the least difficulties in respect of resettlement. The economic
analyses for each individual dam were prepared by local consulting firms. However the Bank's
expectations and the Tunisian response had three perverse results which seriously impaired the validity and
value of the economic analyses. These were:
a)     The misleading irrigation scheme hypothesis. Each of the 15 dams financed by the Bank, including
one in the most arid situation where livestock predominates (Bou Arfa in Kasserine), derived their main
economic justification from the projected value added to agricultural production on the hypothesis of an
irrigation scheme attached to each dam. For the dams constructed by the Bank, the irrigation scheme
works have not been constructed and may never be, at least in the form predicted. The economic value
estimated for this particular benefit stream was quite unrealistically optimistic.
b)     Non-inclusion of other benefits. Once a satisfactory IRR had been reached, the economic analyses
generally did not go further to attempt to develop an economic value for the range of other benefits
obtained, listed above, except in some instances livestock production (and then most commonly on the
unconvincing model of imported exotic breeds, dairy production etc.). Given the striking variety of hill
dam situations, benefits and potentials, the rather standard and mechanical "model farm" approach to
economic analysis was disappointingly unimaginative at best and seriously misleading at worst.
c)     Consideration of hill dams as isolated constructions. In many cases, the hill dam only makes sense
when seen in the broader context of a catchment area or small river basin development. The plain of Sers
(Le Kef) is a case in point: its groundwater recharge and flood protection will be assured by a ring of eight
hill dams, of which only two are financed by the Bank. By preparing an economic analysis which
considered each dam only in isolation and in respect of its immediate environment, the opportunity was lost
to factor in some of the benefits deriving from the wider zone of influence of the dams and benefits in the
longer term.
The economic analysis dutifully came up with IRRs falling appropriately between 10 and 15 percent over
the life of the dam, with sensitivity analysis showing greater sensitivity to a 10 percent fall in production
than to a 10 percent rise in costs. With the advantage of hindsight, however, the economic analyses do not
provide much useful guidance in relation to evaluating the reality of the actual and potential contribution
the dams have made, or in some case to the possible lack of such potential. The point being made here is
not to criticize the work done, but to try to point the way to a more comprehensive and realistic economic
analysis of hill dams for the future.
Actual Dam Benefits
In identifying the direct benefits of the 15 dams financed by the Bank, the first striking feature is their great
variety. Even within the same general catchment, no two dams are the same. There is great variation in
their potential benefits and in the rate of their realization. This variation is not apparent from the
preparation documents, which tend to mask the individual character of each dam under a standard
presentation. Identifying the specific benefits expected from each dam requires a great deal of digging
through studies. Analysis of the benefits of hill dams could be greatly facilitated by the inclusion of a
simple checklist that summarizes concisely, on a single page, the multipurpose benefits of each hill dam and
whether these would be automatic, spontaneous or investment/management related. The 14 dams actually
- 14 -



visited varied in impact from those in which multiple benefits were already apparent (about 5), through
those with clear but largely unrealized potential (about 7), down to a small number (about 2) where the
logic for investment was difficult to comprehend and appeared on the face of it to be unconvincing. The
more successful dams display a number of common features.
(i)    Technically they are well sited so that their existence automatically and demonstrably provides
benefits of flood protection and erosion control, and groundwater recharge may be reasonably inferred,
although this is difficult to measure and may involve considerable time lags (even up to 20 years). They
have promoted soil moisture retention and increased biodiversity;
(ii)    They have brought bring direct and visible benefit to the local people through spontaneous
responses where farmers have adopted new high-value crops. Some agricultural extension staff gave
impressive testimony to the new entrepreneurial spirit which is catching on-farmers who a few years ago
were content to cultivate traditional wheat are now phoning relatives in Tunisia to get the current market
prices for melons, or parsley, or fennel. There is a growing local feeling that it is worth investing in
agricultural production and innovation.
(iii)   These spontaneous local initiatives are greatly enhanced by a range of administrative interventions.
Water regime management and controlled releases have helped transform downstream production. Rural
roads have allowed vehicles to collect produce.  Rural electrification and improved schools have
encouraged some more enterprising people to remain in rural areas and invest, rather than to settle in town.
Less successful dams
About half of the hill dams constructed showed no evident development benefits so far other than those
directly deriving from the dam's presence (groundwater recharge, flood protection etc.). There was little
evidence that the dams were stimulating any significant local economic development, although in most
cases soil conservation works were being undertaken which provided some local employment. In most
cases the lack of any economic dynamism appears to have been mainly due not to the lack of potential but
to the local population's being unable to access the means to take advantage of the dam, and the
government's not having implemented any associated local agricultural development program. Other
problems included conflicts over land ownership, and difficulties in obtaining water permits, issued
annually by the local CRDA on the basis of a specific agricultural project.
In at least two cases there did not seem to be a very strong rationale for having constructed a dam at all. In
one case, a dam was located adjacent to a large private wheat farm where the owner would clearly have
little incentive to adopt small scale irrigated cultivation, and where there were only 6 other resident small
holders. In another case the dam was located on a geological fault which meant that the reservoir did not
retain water, its leakage providing a rather expensive benefit to downstream agriculture. But these dubious
cases were definitely a minority in the Bank-financed selection.
- 15-



Actions to enhance benefits
A more ambitious program to consolidate the benefits of hill dams is being undertaken through a project to
be financed by the European Union (EU) beginning in 2001. Full details of this project are not presently
available, but preparation documents indicate a strong emphasis on strengthening the community-based
participatory approach, on inclusion (women, youth, low income groups), on a multidisciplinary agronomic
approach, and on developing monitoring and evaluation methods. The EC project seems likely to offer an
important opportunity for innovation, learning, dissemination and evaluation. However, the EC program
includes few of the dams financed by the Bank, and one was specifically excluded on the grounds that the
spontaneous irrigation initiatives already begun would hamper an orderly process of planned development
of benefits. Six strategic actions were recommended at the time of the ICR mission to enhance the benefits
derived from hill dams for rural development. These are summarized in the bullets below:
*     Rethink irrigation schemes attached to Hill Dams: for small dams (under IM m3) , give serious
consideration to the feasibility of adopting a flexible "as you go" participatory approach with movable
equipment, and avoid investment in irrigation infrastricture.
*     Improve institutional coordination in dam development actions, bringing in relevant departments
and the local communities as the dam is being planned rather than leaving such action until after
construction.
*       ,Enhance community participation in all aspects of dam development, from planning, through
participatory implementation of development works, to monitoring and evaluation, so that the community
see the dam as in part "their" asset.
i       )Develop needs-based planning for site selection, taking into consideration the needs of the region in
which the dam is constructed and the immediate local needs.
*     Assure or prolong the life of the hill dams through enhanced attention to CES, community
participation, monitoring of siltation and feasibility studies of the costs and techniques of rehabilitation.
e     Promote diversified uses including recreational tourism, eco-tourism, educational uses and
freshwater fish production.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact has been significant. For details see Section 4.2 (C).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Recurrence of drought in 1994, 1995 and 2000 impeded the progress of some of the components,
particularly pasture improvement and soil conservation investment activities. On the other hand, the strong
foreign exchange rate of Tunisian Dinar which prevailed during major part of project implementation was a
favorable factor which enabled MOA to expand its investment capacity which in turm led to reprogramming
of existing activities as well as introduction of new activities in piezometric network expansion, ground
- 16 -



water resource development, irrigation perimeters creation and rehabilitation, natural resources
management, and institutional capacity building.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government commitment to the project objectives was consistently high. The commitment was not just
to an isolated project, but to an overall development strategy within the context of the 8th and later, 9th
Plans. The Government created the environment within which the project thrived, despite design and
institutional weaknesses, typical of any development effort worldwide. A key element of the enabling
environment for this project was the caliber and continuity of personnel assigned to work on the project,
and the very productive working relationships that developed between the Bank and the Government
personnel.
Government reluctance for hiring foreign research specialists with borrowed money delayed the preparation
of acceptable research proposals in IRESA. Procurement procedures were not always in conformity with
Bank directives especially during the initial stages of project implementation due to varying interpretations
of these directives by various CRDAs with concomitant delays. However, this was rectified through the use
of Bank standard bidding documents and model contracts, and an agreement that the Bank directives would
take precedence over Tunisian procurement procedures. In later years of the project, procurement
performance was quite satisfactory due to the experience gained by the CRDAs and the various technical
units during the course of project implementation.
The expropriation process and the payment of compensation for people affected by the dams and their
related infrastructure were delayed due to several factors such as the complexity of the land tenure issues,
multiplicity of agencies, Ministry of State Land's work load at central and regional levels as well as
preference for a consensual process of land valuation for expropriation rather than more rapid application
of regulatory mechanisms.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Appraisal and procurement capacity were initially raised as a concern because of the large number of
sub-projects and the numerous implementing units. However, MOA assured that the bulk of the
sub-components were managed by units with good performance records under the similar investment
component of the ASAL II. The units with weaker capabilities benefited from the institutional strengthening
activities under the project. In general, the capacity for investment appraisal and implementation in the
MOA was high which enabled it to carry out such an ambitious project with a high measure of
success.During supervision, the MOA prepared the sub-sector investment programs in advance for the
Bank to review with a view to minimizing delays. Procurement training was also availed of during the
project launch workshop.
In the initial stage of the project, significant delays occurred in the hill dam component due to slippage in
final preparation of the technical work on potential resettlement needs (See Social Assessment Report, June
2001). There were also difficulties in the preparation of a national campaign to address inefficient irrigation
water distribution and use; and in the completion of a study on the evaluation of fish resources in the north
by the National Fisheries Research Institute (INSTOP).
Project implementation was affected by slow progress on Development Action Plan (DAP) measures to
design and establish monitoring and evaluation capacity in MOA for the hill dams, irrigation perimeters,
and soil conservation components of the Loan, as well as for the overall physical/financial monitoring of
the MOA budget. There was also slow progress in translating studies on animal health, genetic
- 17 -



improvement and food safety regulatory strategies into operational action plans.
Under the Natural Resource Management component, preparation of pilot participatory management plans-
each for approx. 2,000 ha - was slowed by unexpectedly costly bid submissions by consulting firms.
Administration responded to this by deciding to complete seven with consultants and another 23 using
administrative personnel.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was about US$ 179 million compared with the SAR estirnate of US$211.0
million. The difference is mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations of the Tunisian Dinar and the Deutsche
Mark vis-a-vis the U.S dollar. Cost overruns in the irrigation perimeters, rural potable water, and
groundwater exploration components were at 124, 116 and 164% respectively, although physical targets
were also exceeded in some cases. About $ 1.3 million of the committed funds remained undisbursed at the
time of writing this ICR. It was agreed that the undisbursed commitments would be paid under the ongoing
ASIL2. The Bank financed about US$ 116 million (65%), and the Government contributed about US$ 63
million equivalent in local costs (35%). This was higher than the figures estimated at appraisal (57% -
Bank; 43% Govt.) mainly because the goods category was underestimated by a factor of almost 3 ($46m
actual vs $16m estimated at appraisal). In contrast, however, the works category was overestimated
($129m actual vs $189m estimated at appraisal)
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is highly likely. It improved the long-run productivity of natural resources
(soils, water, pasture) through public investments, development of participation by resource users, and
pricing to reflect scarcity. The focus on cost recovery in irrigation water pricing and livestock health
programs promoted financial viability and private sector involvement in these services. One key aspect of
sustainability was that the ASIL operated entirely through MOA line-responsibility. There was no separate
project implementation unit. Since the project was operated by line staff within MOA, there was no
institutional disjuncture between "project" and "post-project" periods, and this facilitated easier
mainstreaming of the successful methodologies and policy reforms promoted by ASIL.
In order to avoid any financing gap, a follow-up project, ASIL2 was rapidly prepared with strong borrower
participation which was effective before the project closed. The ASIL 2 project aims to increase rural
incomes derived from sustainable use of water resources and the effective development, delivery and
adoption of improved farming practices and to enhance institutional responsiveness to user demand for
agricultural research, extension and training. This was followed by the preparation of the WSIL to
implement the government's water sector strategy with its emphasis on demand management through a
far-reaching program of investments and reforms in the water sector which became effective earlier this
year.The WSIL would focus on promoting effective integrated water resource management by (i)
implementing a sound institutional framework and sector reform measures for demand management; (ii)
improving the capacity of the GICs and private operators to efficiently manage resources; and (iii)
facilitating real-time management of ground and surface water. The project would also promote
conservation of water resources and protection of the environment. These two objectives of the WSIL are
expected to significantly improve the productivity of agriculture and access to safe water in rural areas.
The recently approved Agricultural  Support Services Project (ASSP) will likewise strengthen the
sustainability of most of the achievements of the project. The ASSP aims to establish competitiveness,
- 18-



production quality, and market access, particularly for smaller and medium-scale producers through
developing organizational structures for producers that represent their needs and interests, on a pilot basis;
improving the institutional capacity and quality of agricultural services delivered by public, private, and
producer organizations; and improving information flow for all sector stakeholders. The Government sees
strong linkages between the productivity agenda supported under ASIL and continued under ASIL2 and the
ASSP and the conservation agenda supported under the WSIL, with the common theme of enhancing
productivity and incomes sustainably from scarce but better managed resources.
Since the Government is still committed to continue its support to the sector both financially and in
important policy reforms, even components such as Fisheries where there was no follow-up project,
sustainability is highly likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No specific transition arrangements were required. The project supported a time-slice of the Government's
public investment budget in the agricultural sector. Standards and criteria set by the project for selection of
investments were subsequently mainstreamed into regular Government budget prioritization procedures. As
discussed in Section 6. 1, the government avoided any financing gaps through the bridging finance provided
by the ASIL2 which became effective before the ASIL closed. This was subsequently followed by the
comprehensive WSIL. The ASSP is also expected to become effective within the next few months. The
processes, systems, and skills developed by the ASIL in the MOA have been strengthened through their
application in these subsequent projects. The MOA extended the use of investment selection criteria
comparable to ASIL requirements to all investments regardless of financing source, including ERR,
cost-effectiveness, and environmental screening. The project's achievements and sustainability will be
strengthened when the MOA now devotes more attention to monitoring and evaluation of impacts and
outcomes and increasing communication capacity and effectiveness between the different units of the
MOA.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory. It was consistent with the
Government's development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy for Tunisia. The Bank was proactive
in initiating the dialogue with the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture for the sector reform.
Project preparation was well organized and satisfactory. The Bank, which had a harmonious team with a
good skill mix, brought in the state of the art expertise into project design. During the project appraisal, the
Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with
the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Over the seven years of
project implementation, there were 14 supervision missions, about 2 missions per year. The Bank's
relationship with the Borrower was very cordial and productive. Supervision teams included the Bank's
agricultural economists, and specialists in hydrology, irrigation, natural resources, livestock and fisheries,
sociology, irrigation research, soil conservation, and land tenure. However, in order to optimize results, a
complex project like this could have benefitted from a proportionally higher supervision budget to ensure
sufficient time for field visits and staffed with the necessary skill mix needed to address relevant project
issues.
- 19-



The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation for the most part.
Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the Government to problems with
project execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Form 590s and Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in
terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in
implementation occurred, the Bank was able to define concrete steps anid a timetable for putting the
program on track. The Bank's team also enriched the project by incorporating lessons from the Bank's
previous projects in Tunisia. Extemal consultants were used for specific aspects of certain project
components. Bank staff worked closely with the Government and the implementing agencies and provided
them with extensive assistance, in terms of providing suggestions for drafting the laws and regulations,
reviewing legal drafts, and giving technical comments. For instance, the Bank provided comments on the
economic and environmental impact reports for the hill dams, and reports on fish and animal product
sanitary quality control, and on the national pasture improvement program. The mid-term review carried
out in October 1996 did not result in any major restructuring of the project components. However, the
problems regarding expropriation and compensation for the hill dams component which could have
definitely benefitted from more attention at this stage were not tackled proactively. It was only in
supervision missions in the later years of the project that there was a focus on trying to resolve the
long-standing resettlement issues associated with this component. Due to renewed attention from the Bank
after 1998, the number of expropriation decrees published in the official journal (JORT) did increase. The
Administration also took certain steps to expedite the process such as establishing a convention between the
two Ministries involved and the Office of Cartography (OCT) to ensure that OCT was involved right from
the beginning of the "plan parcellaire" process to ensure its conformity with legal norms. Also, the technical
unit, DGETH, recruited 2 jurists to assist in processing the required legal documentation. However, the
bottlenecks in expediting the compensation payments were not completely resolved even at project closing
and the ICR mission recommended that the Govemment report to the Bank on an annual basis the
outstanding cases of compensation.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance.
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the preparation
stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the objectives of the project. The
govemment officials and staff of implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's project team on a
continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance was satisfactory. The Government consistently maintained its commitment
throughout the implementation. It had established a good project implementation unit and the day to day
implementation of the project was very smooth. The project did not suffer from any counterpart funding
problems. The project also benefited from the continuity and high caliber of personnel both at the
leadership level, Steering Committee level, and project implementation level. In particular, strong support
was extended by the M&E unit of the General Directorate of Finance and Incentives (DGFE) towards the
Bank supervision missions and in coordinating the efforts of the various agencies involved.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
Performance of the MOA was satisfactory. The Ministry had a highly trained scientific staff and highly
- 20 -



motivated field staff. The M& E unit of the DGFE which was managing the project was well organized and
effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of
the project. However, because of limited resources, the coordination effort with the CRDAs and entities in
charge of subcomponents such as Fisheries and Livestock was inadequate.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*    The most critical determinant of the success of this project can be attributed in large part to
Government commitment and the strength of the Bank-Government partnership and policy dialogue.
The Government drew on the Bank's technical assistance in support of the diagnosis of policy
problems, the design of reform measures, preparation of investments and arrangements to meet
financing needs. The Bank partnership helped provide momentum to policy measures and lent priority
to selected investments, thus helping the Government move forward quickly on a number of fronts. The
ongoing Bank-Government policy dialogue resulted in several useful sectoral studies that were
prepared over the course of the project. The project also benefited from the fact that key policy reforms
for improving sector performance that were outside the purview of the MOA were nevertheless
achieved under the Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan (EFRSL), Ln. 3424-TUN,
including trade and price liberalization measures, investment incentives policy, and external debt
management. Specifically, actions to reduce subsidies on fertilizers and animal feeds were undertaken
as a tranche condition under the EFRSL. In addition, better targeting of food subsidies of the General
Compensation Fund was also addressed through then-ongoing Bank analytical work.
*   Overall, the ASIL was designed to strengthen the CRDA capacity to run an investment budget, and of
the MOA in the center to prioritize/monitor/arbitrate the investment budgets proposed by the CRDAs
at the aggregate level. However, this implied a high degree of coordination between the center, the
CRDAs, and the specialized agencies, and even at project closing, DGFE still did not have the
technical and human resources necessary for effective and efficient coordination.
*   For smoother project implementation, the Borrower's financial and procurement procedures need to be
simplified. Local procurement and contracting procedures were quite time-consuming given the number
of implementing units and the large number of small sub-projects. The use of the Bank's standard
bidding documents and model contracts towards the latter years of the project helped to expedite
project implementation.
*   The Government emphasized the priority that they gave to having the ASIL already in place at the
beginning of their 1994 budget year and the Bank was responsive in accelerating the processing
timetable to accommodate this demand. However, this complex multi-component project would have
benefited from more preparation time, taking into account the large number of sub-projects and the
time consuming nature of the procurement and contracting procedures.
*   The hill dams component had useful lessons to impart. The lack of a consultative process with the
beneficiaries resulted in many cases in inappropriate technical choices and inflated benefit estimates.
This was subsequently corrected to a certain extent in the follow-up ASIL2 project where the TORs for
the consultants preparing the cost-benefit analyses for irrigation projects were modified to include
beneficiary participation in the planning and design process. Further, the involvement of two Ministries
in the expropriation/compensation process resulted in inordinately long delays in meeting the
- 21 -



compensation requirements which was underestimated in the preparation process. A better outcome
could have been achieved if, instead of trying narrowly to measure agricultural production benefits, the
Bankc through constructive dialogue had helped the client make dam construction the focus and
stimulus of broad-based rural development; this could have been done by improved economic analysis,
poverty reduction, community participation, indicators for monitoring and impact evaluation, and
measures to prolong dam life. The detailed emphasis placed by the Bank on social safeguards policy
compliance was misdirected; it did little to improve project outcomes, since in practice a reasonably
satisfactory result was obtained through existing national institutions and procedures that applied in
any case; and it impeded good client relations. This project would have been a good candidate for a "
B" rating on resettlement (local institutions able to cope adequately with the scale and nature of the
problems) had such an option been available. The Bank's diffidence about this sub-component was
unfortunate, particularly as there was no matching component in the follow-up ASIL 2. While the
Government was in general convinced by the methodological improvements that the Bank promoted
based on the joint learning experience during the ASIL, it was unwilling to deal with the Bank's
rigor/rigidity on a number of aspects, particularly the application of the OD 4.30 directive on
involuntary resettlement, and chose instead to pick among the methodological improvements promoted
by the Bank that it found compelling while having recourse to other sources of "easier" money from
other donors. However, Bank supervision of this component could have been more diligent. Its
prominence in project status reports and BTOs was gradually reduced until eventually specific
references were dropped almost entirely till 1998. The Bank has never yet addressed the question of
what is the economic value of the hill dams component. Earlier attention to improving and evaluating
the development potential would have generated a useful stock of applied knowledge on enhancing
broad-based growth in less favored rural areas, a theme close to the heart of the Bank's main mission.
Had agreement been reached to include this sub-component in ASIL 2, the Bank could have been at the
forefront of this leaming experience rather than, as it now is, a laggard. The client may, however,
benefit from the lessons applied to the remainder of the program-with or without the support of other
investors and donors.
*  The follow up project (ASIL2) and the initiation of detailed preparation studies on other key
sub-sectors (water, agricultural services) resulted in new operations (WSIL, ASSP) that deepened and
strengthened the reforms initiated through this project. The project supported the Government's
comnmitment to disengage from several key activities and shift its investment focus towards improved
natural resource management including increased water use efficiency. Tunisia illustrates the fact that
inclusive growth and development policies are sometimes best supported by gradual reforms sustained
over extended periods of time at a pace commensurate with the economic, political, and social reality of
the country. In this regard, the Bank's sustained commitment to the Government (and MOA) through
meaningful policy dialogue and financing support is noteworthy.
*   A sectoral project of this nature should have assigned as much importance to the impact of the
investments on the sector as to the physical output of the investment components. The implementing
agency, specifically, the M&E unit of MOA (DGFE) was strong in the input-output indicators, but
relatively weak on the outcome/impact indictors. The project would have benefited from strengthening
of the DGFE to improve its monitoring and evaluation capacity.
*   The ASIL instrument while flexible and criteria-based, did have its shortcomings as a development
tool. One aspect is the relationship between the annual investment program and the DAP. There was
supposed to be a tight linkage between adequate policy progress on the DAP agenda and each
sub-component of the investment program. In practice, the linkage was not very effective, partly
because much of the DAP specification was process ("completion of a study") and if the study was
- 22 -



progressing slowly, but still moving forward, the Bank was loath to cut off the related investment
activities. With this instrument design, the project benefitted from having a serious client able to stick
to a difficult agenda and the high caliber of personnel associated with the project. With a rockier client
relationship and implementation record, the DAP-investment component linkage would have proven
much trickier to navigate by. Further, the technical and economic criteria were not always rigorous
enough and beneficiary participation was lacking in many instances. On the other hand, the policy
agenda in the DAP allowed the Bank to stay engaged with the MOA on a broad set of issues, to move
fast to provide support when policy reform opportunities arose (fisheries vis a vis EU requirements),
and to provide quiet but effective support where a tighter "conditionality" and link to investment would
have doomed further Bank involvement (land consolidation policy). With its national scale, the ASIL
also permitted gradual improvement in the MOA investment budget mechanisms.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The loan agreement for the project was signed on 22 December 1993 and ratified by law
number 94-33 of 24 February 1994. The loan became effective on April 13, 1004 and a
coordination committee was established in May 1994 with representatives of all concerned
technical departments in MOA as well as other Ministries (Finance, International Cooperation,
Economic Development, Environment) and the Central Bank. Despite its complexity (several
sub-sectors and components, 23 CRDAs and 11 agencies, major institutional reforms), the
project was laimched successfully. The implementation manual detailing , inter alia, the
procurement and disbursement procedures, sample bid documents, environmental impact
studies, and techniques for bid evaluation in accordance with Bank guidelines were in place
with all the concerned departments before the project became effective.
The project was successfully executed and achieved all its principal objectives. Agricultural
production was augmented through increasing the availability of water for the farmers,
creation of new irrigation perimeters, and the adoption of appropriate irrigation technologies.
Farmer incomes and employment were increased considerably. The project also supported the
development of the private sector through: (i) the reinforcement of GICs (irrigation and
potable water) and their involvement in the progressive recovery of costs for O&M; (ii)
development of several private enterprises especially in the domains of conservation of soils
and water, groundwater exploration, and hill dam construction - which were formerly done by
the State till 1994. In addition, the economic impact of public investments was improved by
the adoption of selection criteria for the principal components of the MOA's annual program
of investments i(irrigation perimeters, hill dams, rural potable water) and by the execution of
environmental impact studies for components such as hill dams and irrigation perimeters. The
project also enabled the development of a strategic focus in areas such as the development of
fisheries in the north, privatization of artificial insemination services, irrigation tariff reformns,
and the increasing participation of users in O&M cost recovery, and several analytical studies.
The project also strengthened the capacity of the MOA in terms of planning, preparing, and
executing investment projects, monitoring and evaluation, and procurement in accordance
with Bank guidelines.
The physical targets of the project were exceeded mainly due to the efforts of the technical
- 23 -



departments in procurement and in the close supervision of the works. In six years, the project
created/modernized 71 irrigation perimeters. Total area created under new perimeters was
4483 ha (including 538 ha under treated wastewater). Rehabilitation and modernization
improved 4809 ha (2059 ha under the Lezdine-Utique modernization), 15 hill dams, 318
groundwater exploratory wells, 57 piezometers, 185 rural potable water projects, 416 flood
control and groundwater recharge structures as well as the improvement of about 34,000 ha
of irrigated area. Further, the project supported the financing of several actions and equipment
for pasture improvement, genetic improvement, and notably the management of 15,500 ha of
pasture benefiting 5241 beneficiaries, the extension and construction of 2 animal health
laboratories, the upgrading of 36 fishing ports, and a number of important irrigation and
drainage research projects. Finally, the ASIL supported a number of important institutional
reforms and encouraged the greater participation of beneficiaries and the private sector in
agricultural development.
Overall, the performance of the Bank during project preparation, appraisal, and
implementation was highly satisfactory and very positive. Relations between the task
managers and the project managers were distinguished by their clarity and confidence of the
relationship. The biannual supervision missions of the Bank provided rich and useful
assistance for the personnel in charge of project implementation and never remained a purely
academic exercise. The missions identified the problems and constraints and assisted in the
elaboration of practical solutions. The mission also aided the technical staff in the
decision-making process in order to better valorize public investments. The Bank's support
enabled the technical departments in the development of several strategic studies (land
consolidation, rangeland management, veterinary services, animal health, hill dams
valorization) through the mobilization of several key experts. Despite the change in the task
management leadership in 1998, the project did not experience any continuity problems, and
the project management by the Bank remained highly satisfactory. Due to the exchange rate
fluctuations and the absence of competition in some cases, the costs of some components at
appraisal were underestimated (groundwater exploration, hill dams, rural potable water,
livestock). Further, the distribution of costs by category (works, equipment etc.) were not
well studied in accordance with the existing market conditions and the physical realities. These
two facts in addition to the savings realized on a number of contracts resulted in the
development of a complementary program and the extension of the closing date in order to
fulfill this program. The Bank is to be commended for its close collaboration with the
Administration throughout the project implementation period, the prompt treatment of the
project documents, and its unstinted support towards ensuring the project's satisfactory
implementation progress.
The Borrower, convinced of the objectives of the project and the flexibility of the ASIL
instrument (support for the MOA's annual investment budgets) demonstrated great political and
administrative will to achieve the project objectives without major time and cost overruns.
Considerable efforts were expended since the project launch and several corrective measures were
taken in a timely manner to resolve problems pertaining to procurement, disbursement or the
execution of measures outlined in the DAP. The Government took several measures to: (i) assure
the success of the project and meet its objectives; (ii) encourage and promote the involvement of
- 24 -



the private sector in several areas; (iii) encourage a more active participation of the farrners and
the private sector in the development effort; (iv) improve the economic impact of public sector
investments; and (v) reinforce the institutional capacity of the MOA with regards to planning,
preparing, and executing investment projects.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
N/A
10. Additional Information
The project initially foresaw a cofmancing of about $85 million from OECF with the understanding that the
loan amount would be reduced from $120 million to $85 million if the cofinancing materialized.
Eventually, the OECF financed a parallel project in 1996 with three components (hill dams, rural potable
water, and groundwater monitoring), but this was kept separate from ASIL and the loan amount was left
unchanged. The other key donor in the water sector in Tunisia is KfW which has been active in the support
of GICs since 1992. After 1996, KfW focused its financial and institutional support in 7 govemorates with
a view to helping the GICs in these regions to strengthen their financial and technical capacity. The criteria
for financing rural potable water schemes were approximately the same for both Bank and KfW-financed
investments, and the Bank was sympathetic towards the KfW approach of communities mobilizing an
amount towards working capital for the project and remained open to using this in its future involvement in
rural potable water in Tunisia. Overall, the Bank maintained good working relations with KfW in the water
sector. Coordination with OECF was also satisfactory although the Bank was in favor of adherence to a
national policy regarding the selection criteria for the development of rural potable water schemes (distance
from source of water; quantity and quality of available water resources; investment cost/beneficiary)
instead of making exceptions as advocated by OECF for its investments in this sub-sector.
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / imPact Indicators:
lndka7tor0 tlM0tbatrl                     Projec7 0ted :n las t3000 P            ActualfaetEstima$0te700 
Not Applicable
Agricultural sector growth:                                                    1994 -9.8% real (drought year)
1995 -9.00%6 real (drought year)
1996 33.2% real
1997 2.5% real
Irrigation intensification                                                    Hectares added - 4483 ha.
No. of IPs created: 47; 3945 hectares added
No. of IPs created using treated waste water:
4 - 538 ha added
No. of beneficiaries: 8335
Area modemized (ILezdine-Utique)- 2059 ha
No. of other [Ps modernizedtrehab - 21
Area benefitted -2750 ha
Rural Potable Water:                                                          No. of operations which became operational:
185
Additional people served: 231,000
Ground Water Monitoring                                                       No. of exploratory wells: 318 (75% positive)
Additional resources: 44MCM/year
Soil and Water Conservation:                                                  Priv. contracting of works - 100%
Functioning user groups - not yet
applicable
Animal Health and Productivity:
Admin. contracts with private vets. for
artificial insemination - 54617 (50%)
Pasture improvement
1994 - 5504 ha (7304 ha planned), 1608
beneficiaries
1995 - 3558 ha (4562 ha planned), 1017
beneficiaries
1996 - 6367 ha (7296 ha planned), 2616
beneficiaries
Animal disease losses
Disease 1 - n.a.
Disease 2 -- n.a.
Disease 3 - n.a.
Natrural Resource Management
Fisheries:
Flotilla and catch in north -                                                n.a.
Compliance with Tunisian norms, by port -                                     fully met
-26 -



Output Indicators:
indicator/Matrix                   ProIect d In last PSR                 Actuas/Late_ Estimat
Annual agricultural investment:                                             1993 489.2 million DT (nominal)
1994 515.8
1995 596.6
1996 717.8
1997 774.0
o/w administration   47%
public enterprise 3%
private       50%
Irrigation penmeters:                                                       Functioning user groups -- 73(100%)
Water tariff increase, CRDAs, real:
1994-98 avg. - 9%
Rural Potable Water:                                                        Functioning user groups (1998) - 74%
Hill Dams:                                                                  All 15 dams completed and operational;
Ground Water Monitoring
No. of piezometers installed                                               57 of which % automated 15% (1994), 29%
(1998)
Natrural Resource Management:
Hectares of watersheds benefited                                           34,000 ha
No. of beneficiaries from pasture                                           5,200
improvement program
Fisheries                                                                   Economic incentives to fish in the north
(docking, ice and haulage subsidies, which
constant at 2/3 of costs of quantities
provided by APIP)
1994 1.4 MDT
1995 0.8 MDT
1996 0.5 MDT
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Adual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Dams and Conveyances                                 34.20          24.30             71
Irrogation Perimeters                                46.00          44.70             97
Hydraulic Studies                                    25.00          41.40             146
Rural Potable Water                                  45.40          36.40             91
Livestock                                            20.50           4.90             24
Fisheries                                            16.20           11.40            70
Soil and Conservation                                19.90           12.40            62
Land Reform                                           0.60           0.00              0
Resettlement                                          0.20           0.00              0
Others                                                3.00            1.50            50
Total Baseline Cost                                 211.00          177.00
Total Project Costs            211.00          177.00
Total Financing Required             211.00         177.00     =
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expendiure Category       ICa           NCB          Other        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     17.10        162.00         14.00         0.00        193.10
(17.10)      (162.00)      (14.00)       (0.00)      (193.10)
2. Goods                      8.20         7.10          1.00          0.00         16.30
(8.20)       (7.10)        (1.00)        (0.00)      (16.30)
13. Services                  0.00          0.00          1.60         0.00         1.60
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.60)        (0.00)       (1.60)
14. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     25.30         169.10        16.60         0.00        211.00
______________________    (25.30)        (169.10)       (16.60)       (0.00)      (211.00)
- 28 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          ICB        Procurement Method                N.8,F.      Total Cost
Expenditure Category  lC8        ~NCB           Other'                      _____
1. Works                         14.30          106.40          4.30           0.00          125.00
(14.30)        (106.40)        (4.30)         (0.00)        (125.00)
2. Goods                         21.50           26.70          0.90            0.00          49.10
(21.50)        (26.70)         (0.90)         (0.00)        (49.10)
3. Services                       0.00           0.70           2.20            0.00          2.90
(0.00)         (0.70)         (2.20)          (0.00)        (2.90)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         35.80          133.80          7.40            0.00         177.00
(35.80)        (133.80)        (7.40)         (0.00)        (177.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2, Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actua/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt,  CoF.
Dams and Conveyances      18.70      15.70                14.50      9.80                77.5   62.4
Irrigation Perimeters     25.10      11.40                31.10      13.60              123.9  119.3
Hydraulic Studies         13.60      11.40                22.40      14.00              164.7  122.8
Rural Potable Water       25.00     20.40                 29.00      12.40              116.0   60.8
Livestock                 15.20      5.30                 3.40       1.50                22.4   28.3
Fisheries                 8.80       7.40                 7.00       4.40                79.5   59.5
Soil and Water            10.90      9.00                 7.40       5.00               67.9   55.6
Conservation
Land Reform               0.30       0.30                 0.00       0.00                0.0    0.0
Other                     2.40       0.60                 1.00       0.60               41.7   100.0
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
See Section 4.3
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
November/1992                 4   Task Manager, Irrigation
Specialist,Institutional
Specialist, Agribusiness and
Marketing Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/1993                     6   Task Manager, Livestock &
Fisheries Specialist,
Irrigation Research
Specialist, Land Reform
Specialist, Hydraulics
Specialist, Institutional
Specialist
Supervision
April/94                      2   2 Economists                        HS              S
November/94                   2   Agriculture Economist,               S              S
Livestock & Fisheries Specialist
October/95                    4   Task Manager, Livestock &            S              S
Fisheries Specialist, Soil
Conservation Specialist, Land
Tenure Specialist
May/96                        4   Task Manager, Livestock &            S              S
Fisheries Specialist, 2 Irrigation
Research Specialist
November/96                   2   Task Manager, Livestock &            S              S
Fisheries Specialist
April/97                      4   Task Manager, Irrigation             S              S
Specialist, Environmental
Specialist, Drainage Research
Specialist
May/98                        4   Task Manager, Livestock &            S              S
Fisheries Specialist, Resettlement
Irrigation & Drainage Specialist
October/98                    2   Task Manager, Ground Water           S              S
Specialist
May/99                        4   Task Manager, Agriculture            S              S
Specialist, 2 Irrigation Research
Specialist
December/99                   4   Task Manager, Economist,             S              S
Sociologist, Irrigation Specialist
July/00                       4   Task Manager, Irrigation             S              S
Specialist, Project Management
Specialist, Agronomist
- 31 -



December/00                    4   Task Manager, Sociologist,             S              S
Irrigation Specialist, Irrigation
Research Specialist
ICR
December/00                    4    Task Manager, Sociologist,
Irrigation Specialist,
Irrigation Research
Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage Of Project Cicle                       Actual.atet Estate
N4 gStf iiweeks       i        US  (000)
Identification/Preparation                  40.7                          183.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                       61.0                          274.5
Supervision                                145.4                          654.1
ICR                                          17.3                          77.9
Total                                      264.4                         1189.6
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
CJ Sector Policies                        OH  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Physical                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
EJ Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
EL Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
C Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Private sector development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
EJ Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   O  U  O HU
El Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated May, 2001;
5. Staff Appraisal Report for the Republic of Tunisia Agriculture Sector Investment Loan, October 29,
1993 (Report No. 12229-TUN)
6. Final Social Assessment Report (based on results of the ICR mission in November 2000), June 18, 2001
7. Memorandum of the President - Second Forestry Development Project, April 16, 1993. Report No.
P-6006-TUN;
8. Loan Agreement for the Agricultural Sector Investment Project between the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund, Japan and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia, February 26, 1996.
9. Implementation Completion Report, Agriculture Sector Adjustement Loan II (Ln 3078-TUN), February
16, 1996 Report No. 15355.
10. hnplementation Completion Report, Irrigation Management Improvement Project (Ln 2573-TUN),
February 16, 1996 Report No. 15356.
11. Performance Audit Report, Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln 2754-TUN), February 11, 1993
Report No. 11654.
12. Letter of Sector Policy, Republic of Tunisia, Ministry of Agriculture, 1993.
13. Quality of Supervision Assessment, QSA3, QAG, July 10, 1999.
14. Report on resettlement and expropriation, A. Herzenni, December 1999.
- 35 -






MAP SECTION






TUNISIA                                                         D'R     '        '''''
AGRICUlTURAL SECTOR                                                              Meirano
INVESTMENT LOAN      9u orns  S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f of                                                                             S   a l>
36n            to--              ,       )'     g /'q ,~~~~~~~                       ~ ~~, ,,   u s s
{tf.v'_<          1.0..............
;   El               e                --                   :       ,        St8
tX ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            Ss--{/t           ;  *    ............, ,   ,
36    ).  -2                                                          ,-giisuD          ,             /    ,> 
J,~~~~~~~~~ KASRNN. . ...... ztIBUZtgt(s _  F^'''''- ..........................................
| 6 t?'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GAFS _Rvts,4 DIA 
34-j  \'  S F' A/ X-
(   y ~~~~A F~                -' ,|    /'-~9-- FPp 0
2   ;(0                                             s           \     *    ,    ,tHFAA tG.F.- 
t             ,    , ~~~KESILI   (                                           ,       ,
a~~~~~~~~N STt .. i-\
FISH HARBORS                      '\TA          UItQE,
RIVERS 
.. __ SEASONAL RIVERS .\\/3
=       FRESH WATER LAKES \  
Fz=     SALT LAKES >_
-32         ~~~ISOHYETS IN MILLIMlETERS 
43    GOVERNORATE CAPITALS\
S  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           \           
--- GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIESLj
-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                   /
,7 d                                                                 \ t                                                _ 
tM '     't    ~~~''-;  5    Q  ler  ~~-31>                           \                                                   25      so      75
3   r TUNt   _                                      \                           !                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
A L G E R I A                                                                                                                     u   domn a1
IC                                      6    Y A                                             \I0 lmEd o : nh
3   \                                                 \          X /                         orm> l c st<etf            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h -                          ..
_   /  NIGE-< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                          9"           j>~~~~~~~~~ 10"~IOL                             1s1.'       



