Page  1
January 29, 1998
H.E. Mohamed Ghannouchi 
Minister of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
98, Avenue Mohamed V 1002 
Tunis-Belvédère  
Republic of Tunisia
Re:
Loan No. 3661-TUN
(Agricultural Sector Investment Loan)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement   
Your Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Agricultural Sector Investment Loan) dated 
December 22, 1993, between the Republic of Tunisia (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).  We also refer to 
the request on your behalf contained in a letter dated August 22, 1997 from Mr. 
Mohamed Mongi Lahbib to amend as required the Loan Agreement in order to make 
provision for the utilization of savings under the Loan and the completion of the 
execution of certain activities financed thereunder.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration, has agreed 
to the above request.  Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
Section 2.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or 
such 
later date  as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly  notify the Borrower 
of such later date.”
2.
Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) is modified to read as follows:
(a)
The first paragraph under Part A (Investment Program) thereof is changed 
as follows:
“Carrying out of the Borrower’s Fiscal Years 1994, 1995, 1996, 
1997 
and 1998 agricultural investment programs, selected in accordance  with suitable 
policies and procedures, and consisting of the following 
activities:”
(b)
The following new paragraph 12 is added under Part A (Investment Program) 
thereof:
“12.
Construction of not more than ten (10) classrooms at the 
Institut national de l’ agronomie at Tunis.”
(c)
The last sentence thereof is changed as follows:
“The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.”
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall 
remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Amendment Letter and returning it 
to us.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
/s/ Marisa Fernandez Palacios 
    for Christian Delvoie 
    Director 
    Maghreb Department 
    Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi
       Authorized Representative
Date: February 7, 1998
Cleared with and cc:
Mesdames Claudia M. Pardiñas Ocaña (LEGMN), Thu-Ha Nguyen (LOAEL);
Mr. Stephen Mink (MNSRE).
