Report No. PID10722
Project Name                     Republic of Chad-Fourth Structural ...
Adjustment Credit
Region:                          Africa
Sector:                          Multisectoral
Project ID:                      TDPE52202
Implementing Agency:             Cellule Economique
Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development
N'Djamena, Chad
Tel. 235 52 61 81
Date prepared:                   October 23, 2001
Appraisal Date:                  November 2, 2001
Projected Board Date:            December 18, 2001
Country background
1.      After nearly three decades of civil war, the government of Chad has
maintained relative peace and stability since 1993. Between 1994 and 1999,
the authorities restored the elementary functions of government, and
established a good macroeconomic adjustment track record. Real GDP growth
averaged 3.4 percent per year and the overall fiscal deficit was cut from 14.2
to 10.6 percent of GDP. The ratio of revenue to GDP increased from 4.9 to 8.2
percent but remains among the lowest in the region. The authorities kept a
tight lid on overall expenditures while allowing non-salary spending in
priority sectors (health, education, social affairs, transport and public
works) to triple inreal terms. Similarly, all hiring in the public sector was
frozen except for primary and secondary school teachers and for health workers
Despite systematic slow execution of the non-salary budget in the social
sectors, outcomes improved drastically.Gross primary enrollment increased from
37 percent in 1994 to 55 percent in 1999-2000 for girls, and from 62 percent
to 88 percent for boys. Infant and child mortality rates decreased from 132
and 222 per 1,000 live births in 1993 to 103 and 194, respectively, in
1997. Substantial progress was also made in the area of structural reforms.
Almost all price controls were removed, the CEMAC provisions for trade
liberalization were implemented and the labor code was revised. With the
privatization of the sugar company (SONASUT) in April 2000, and the signing of
a private management contract the water and electricity company (STEE) in
September 2000, the divestiture program largely been completed.
2.      Chad's interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) was endorsed
by the Executive boards of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund
on July 25,2001. The authorities are currently preparing a fully participatory
PRSP which is scheduled to be finalized by the end of the first quarter of
2001.
Objectives and description
3.      Building on the I-PRSP and the preparation process for the fully
participatory PRSP, the proposed Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV)



would make available USD 40 million to support a reform program focused on
(i) improved governance by the adoption and implementation of a governance
strategy and action plan; (ii) more transparent, accountable and efficient use
of public resources for poverty reduction through the reform of (a) the budget
cycle, (b) public procurement and (c) the civil service; and (iii) poverty
reduction in the rural areas through the state's divestiture from the cotton
sector and accompanying measures to strengthen cotton farmers' associations.
4.      The proposed operation is designed as a precursor to subsequent
Poverty Reduction Support Credits, which would support the fully participatory
PRSP. The proposed Credit will allow Chad to improve governance and
strengthen public resource management with a view to establishing the
financialsafeguards for further programlending and ahead of the advent of
petroleum revenues in 2003. By supporting careful analysis of past
expenditures and elaborating medium term expenditure plans for public
services in health, education, basic infrastructure, rural development and
governance - including the tracing of expenditures from the center to basic
service facilities - it will pave the way for subsequent operations to
gradually be broadened to selected sector issues drawn from the PRSP agenda.
Finally, it will contribute to poverty reduction in the rural areas by
supporting the cotton sector reform program.
Environmental aspects
5.      The implementation of the reform program is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact.
Benefits and risks
6.      Benefits. Successful implementation of the reform program will result
in better governance including improved security, stricter adherence to the
rule of law and more transparent and accountable use of public resources.It
will improve the Government's efficiency and poverty reduction focus in
delivering services in the priority sectors,including health, education, basic
infrastructure, and rural development. It will contribute to increased
revenues for cotton farmers. Finally, it will complement and enhance the
impact of other Bank interventions, especially the Petroleum Development
and Pipeline Project, and its associated petroleum revenue management program,
ongoing and future operations in the health, education, transport and
agriculture sectors,and a proposed community development project.
7.      Risks.  There are substantial risks to the proposed operation.    First,
legislative elections scheduled for March 2002 and a simmering rebellion in
the North of the country may distract the Government from its reform agenda.
Second, Chad's internal revenue collection continues to be below expectations,
endangering the overall financing plan.
Third, commitment to improving governance and transparency remains uneven.
Fourth, Chad's weak administrative capacity may pose a constraint to
implementing technically complex programs such as civil service or cotton
sector reform. To address the second risk, specific actions to increase
domestic revenues are the continued focus of the PRGF-supported program,
including the imminent launching of an operational and financial audit of
customs operations. To mitigate the latter two risks, both the current
operation as well as the program supported under the IMF's Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility and the HIPC Completion Point triggers squarely
-2 -



concentrate on governance and improved public resource management for poverty
reduction. In addition, the Credit is accompanied by the Bank-financed
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project,which became effective in
September 2000 and supports capacity building of the institutions that are
destined to implement the reform program and to provide the domestic checks
and balances on the use of public resources for poverty reduction. To
overcome the risk entailed by the complexity of the cotton sector reform
program, an extensive ex-ante and ex-post poverty and social impact analysis
will be completed.
Contact Point:           The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Team Leader:             Elisabeth Huybens
Telephone: (202) 473-2717
Fax: (202) 473-8466
Email: ehuybens@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarilly included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the Infoshop during the week ending October 26,2001
- 3 -



