Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3591 CD  
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 20, 2001 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3591 CD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
November 15, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in a single 
tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 (b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 
are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.   
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“CCSRP” means the Borrower’s Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control 
Board, established pursuant to Law No. 001/PR/99 and consisting of representatives of the 
Borrower’s public institutions, NGOs (as hereinafter defined) and civil society; 
(b) 
“Cotontchad” means the state-owned company for the processing and marketing  
of cotton production, established and operating under the Borrower’s relevant Law (
ordonnance)
;
(c) 
“Cotton Producers’ Coordination Committee” and “CCL” mean a committee of 
cotton farmers’ representatives established for each of the nine cotton ginneries in the territory of 
the Borrower in order to ensure farmers’ participation in shaping and implementing the Borrower’s 
cotton sector reform program; 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
“DHS” means 
Division Huilerie et Savonnerie, 
a
division of Cotontchad,  
responsible for the operations of oil-mill and soap factories; 
(f) 
“Euro” means the lawful common currency of member states of the European 
Union who adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European 
Currency, as amended to date by the Treaty on European Union; 
(g) “HCI” 
means 
Haut Comité Interministériel
,
the Borrower’s High Inter-ministerial 
Committee, the appointed task force responsible for overseeing the implementation of the 
Program; 
(h) 
“NGO” means a Non Governmental Organization established and operating 
pursuant to the Laws of the Borrower; and 
(i) “SNBG” 
means 
Stratégie Nationale de Bonne Gouvernance
,
the Borrower’s 
National Strategy for Good Governance, to be adopted in accordance with schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty-one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account 
in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been used 
to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter, pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 2012 and ending August 1, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2021 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  6
-
5
-
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for Economic Promotion and 
Development is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economic Promotion 
 
and Development  
 
B.P. 286 
 
N’Djamena 
 
Republic of Chad 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
5329
KD 
 
(235) 51 51 85 
 
(235) 52 00 87 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
By 
 
/s/ Abdoulaye Béri 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
                                    /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, the financing of expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services with the proceeds of the Credit shall be allowed; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
g
oldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the term 
“environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to 
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to 
this Agreement 
 
1. Governance
In accordance with paragraph 23 of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Borrower has furnished to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, the following evidence: 
(a) 
Adoption and Implementation of the SNBG and Action Plan to Diminish 
Interference of Third Parties in Custom Operations
Submission for adoption to the HCI of the SNBG and the action plan. 
(b) 
Oversight and Control of Petroleum Revenues
(i) 
Appointment of the members of CCSRP; and 
(ii) 
issuance of a presidential decree defining the operational rules of 
the CCSRP and stipulating therein the CCSRP’s recognized right to 
publish its reports independently. 
2. 
Public Resource Management
In accordance with paragraphs 25, 28 and 32, respectively, of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Borrower has furnished to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, the following evidence: 
(a) 
Improving Preparation, Execution, Control, Monitoring and Audit of the 
Government Budget 
(i) 
Establishment of two committees in the health and education sectors, 
respectively, to oversee, evaluate and monitor the public expenditures of the 
said sectors;  
Page  14
-
13
 - 
(ii) 
execution of at least 50% of the non-salary operational budget on a 
commitment level at end June 2001 for the Ministries of Education, Health, 
Public Works and Justice; 
(iii) 
issuance of a written order by the Ministry of Finance providing for the 
simplification of the expenditure circuit and dissemination of the new 
procedural manual; and 
(iv) 
transmission of the government’s administrative and management 
accounts for fiscal year 2000 to the audit chamber of the Supreme 
Court. 
(b) 
Improving the Efficiency and Transparency of Public Procurement
(i) 
Issuance of a presidential decree providing for simplification of the 
approval circuit and harmonization of ceilings for public 
procurement contracts; and 
(ii) 
creation of a quarterly public procurement bulletin. 
(c) 
Strengthening the Transparency and Accountability of the Civil Service
(i) 
Submission to Parliament for approval of the draft new civil service 
statutes introducing competitive recruitment and merit-based 
advancement; and 
(ii) 
completion of the census of public employees and the first update of 
the payroll based on the census. 
3. 
Cotton Sector Reform
In accordance with paragraph 36 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has 
furnished to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, the following 
evidence: 
(a) 
Strengthening the Role of Cotton Farmers Organizations
Granting of legal personality to not less than five of the nine CCLs. 
(b)  
State Divestment from Cotton Production
Page  15
-
14
 - 
Publication in the local press of Cotontchad’s draft partial business transfer 
agreement of DHS to a newly created entity. 
 
