Aide Memoire
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Uganda Millennium Science Initiative Project
Project Review Mission
16 - 28 June, 2011
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The Uganda Millennium Science Initiative (MSI) Project was approved for a credit of
$30 million equivalent on 25 May 2006 and became effective on 2 March 2007. A review of
the Project was conducted from 16'-28th June 2011. The objective of the Mission was to
review all aspects of the Project against performance indicators and activities specified in the
Project Implementation Plan and Operations Manual to identify key issues that may need to
be addressed or rectified. The mission also sought to identify lessons learned and make
recommendations for the strengthening of the STI sector in Uganda building on project
outputs. The Mission comprised Sukhdeep Brar (Senior Education Specialist and Team
Leader), Elizabeth Mutesi (Procurement Specialist), Paul Kamuchwezi (Financial
Management Specialist), and Dr Peter Tindemans, (Science and Technology Consultant). The
Mission was supported by Agnes Kaye, Program Assistant. Ms. Apophia Atukunda will
undertake an assessment of environmental safeguards with particular reference to proper
disposal of waste from the research and industrial incubation projects. The report will be
submitted to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED),
Uganda National Council Science and Technology (UNCST) and Uganda Industrial Research
Institute (UIRI) upon its availability.
2.    The mission held extensive discussions with officials from MoFPED, UNCST and
UIRI. The Mission visited several grantees in Kampala and Kabale. A list of persons met is at
Appendix 1. This aide memoire records the discussions and agreements reached during the
review mission and were agreed upon in a wrap up meeting held on 27 June 2011 chaired by
Ms. Jennifer Muwuliza, Commissioner, Aid Liaison, MoFPED.
II.   PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
3.    The MSI's overall development objective is for Ugandan Universities and research
institutes to produce more and better qualified science and engineering graduates, and higher
quality and more relevant research; and for firms to utilize these outputs to improve
productivity for the sake of enhancing S&T led growth. The project supports these objectives
through two components. Component 1supports competitively awarded grants through three
different windows, each serving a specific purpose. Window A funds research groups led by
senior researchers or emerging investigators to conduct relevant, high quality scientific and
technological research closely connected to graduate training; Window B funds the creation
of undergraduate programs and rehabilitation and upgrading of existing degree programs in
basic science and engineering; Window C supports grants for Technology platforms through
which firms and researchers collaborate to conduct research for solving problems of direct
interest to industry. Component 2 supports an outreach program, institutional strengthening
for UNCST and UIRI, monitoring and evaluation, and policy studies. The Mission confirms
that the project objective remains valid.
1


﻿A. Implementation progress in terms of results on PDO Indicators
4.    The Project had identified five Project Development Indicators (PDO Indicators) and
three Intermediate Results. Surveys were to take place on a 2-yearly basis, starting in 2007 to
get baseline data. A progress monitoring survey was conducted in 2009 and another survey
will be conducted in September 2011. The PDO Indicators, together with a brief statement on
the progress made are listed below:
(i)   PDO Indicator 1: Size/number and productivity (measured by publications, patent
applications, and number of students trained) of researchers and research groups
doubles.
Survey results indicate that PDO I of doubling of size/number and productivity of
researchers and research groups was already achieved by 2009. The number of active
researchers increased from 261 in 2007 to 655 in 2009, More researchers publish papers (all
categories included), and though still a small percentage (around 7%) the number of them
publishing in international peer reviewed journals shows a significant increase.
(ii)  PDO Indicator 2: Pipeline of science, technology, and engineering undergraduates
and postgraduates increases by 50% in key disciplines.
The goal defined in PDO 2, namely to increase the number of undergraduates and
postgraduates in science, technology and engineering, has proved to be a difficult one. The
2009 data show an increase of about 10% in absolute numbers, though relatively speaking
there is hardly a rise in the percentage of students enrolled opting for Science, Technology
and Engineering (STE). The mission was informed that quite a few Masters' thesis and at
least one PhD thesis have been submitted. For the review mission in September 2011 UNCST
will collect more precise data on this, as well as on the number of publications written and
submitted
(iii)  PDO Indicator 3: Firms active in technology development/evaluation employ
more S&T talent and profitably use more technology.
Data on On PDO 3 is not available but will be collected as part of the new surveys to be
undertaken in September UNCST will consult with URI how to combine any data in the
Industrial Resource Centre (IRC) with a new survey.
(iv)  PDO Indicator 4: Survey of clients reveals that UNCST and UIRI provide
effective services.
Survey results indicate that knowledge about and client satisfaction with UNCST's and
UIRI's services has been considerably enhanced. Satisfaction with response to stakeholder
needs increased from 36% in 2007 to 78% in 2009 for UNCST and from 34% to 58% for
UIRI for the same period.
(v)   PDO Indicator 5: Positive impressions of careers in science and technology
increase.
Survey results for PDO 5 are more challenging: in 2009 the percentage of A-level students
having a positive interest in or planning careers in S&T was at 65 % in 2009 against 86% in


﻿2007. This is possibly due to the quality of science education at the secondary level impacted
by the significant increases in enrolments at secondary level in recent years with schools
facing an even larger shortage of qualified teachers, science laboratories, text books and other
learning materials.
5. The project's intermediate outcome indicators are as follows:
Intermediate Results A: (i) MSI funding facility established, grantees selected through a
transparent, merit based competition.
Intermediate Results B: (ii) Senior Research Teams (SRTs) and Research Teams (RTs) fully
staffed, equipped and operational, undergraduate programs admitting students; Technology
Program activities lead to transfer of specific technologies and to follow on research by firms
and partners; and
Intermediate Results C: (iii) research results leading to planned publications; students
progressing towards undergraduate and post graduate degrees; firms demonstrate greater
technology use as a result of participation in the MSI; firms hire interns upon graduation.
A more detailed overview of the status as regards the PDOs and Intermediary Outcome
indicators is at Annex 2.
II.   OVERALL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, SUMMARY FINDINGS AND
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
6.    The two lead agencies, UNCST and UIRI, are performing well. The process of
submission, peer reviewing and selection for the award of competitive research grants has
been deemed professional, transparent and thorough by independent International and
Ugandan scientists. Some projects from Round I are completed; others will be completed on
schedule. The projects from Round 1 and 2 are making good progress. There is an issue of
financing Round 3 grantees. Reallocation of funds from project savings approved in January
2011 will support some of the grantees and it is possible some additional savings may accrue.
However UNCST, in consultation with MoFPED, needs to address the issue of the shortfall
for funding Round 3 grantees. It also needs to estimate the time required by the Round 3
grantees supported by the project to complete their research in order to expeditiously request
a no-cost extension of the Project's closing date. UIRI has significantly enhanced its
infrastructure, scope, activities and visibility among industry. Considerable and increasing
additional Government of Uganda (GoU) funds demonstrate the confidence in and potential
of UIRI. The National Science Week, the key part of the Outreach part of Component 2, is
going to be held for the fifth time in September 2011, as well as the School visits are a
resounding success and will need to be continued.
7.    Monitoring and Evaluation is being performed on a routine basis through quarterly
field visits, annual progress reviews and periodic PDO indicator reviews against the 2007
baseline. UNCST is also undertaking policy studies on a regular basis.
8.    Procurement for Round I is at almost complete, for Round 2, is at 47% completion
with the category of goods trailing somewhat at 70%. This is expected to improve when the
equipment and consumables held up at Entebbe airport due to tax issues are released and
delivered. Procurement for Round 3 is held up pending resolution of financial problems as
3


﻿indicated above. Procurement for UNCST is stands at approximately 95%, and for UIRI at
almost 100%.
9.    MSI is due to close in December 201. The mission has examined the sustainability
issues that need to be addressed if the achievements and progress made under the project are
not to be lost. These issues are discussed in detail in the relevant sections of this aide
memoire. The mission's key recommendations are summarised below:
* The Project is officially due to close on 31 December 2011. However, due to a variety of
factors that are discussed in the aide memoire, it is clear that the project activities will not
be completed within this time frame. The Government of Uganda needs to urgently send
in a request for a no-cost project extension to enable adequate time for project activities to
be completed.
* No procurement will be undertaken which cannot be completed by 31 December 2011
until the project extension is approved by the Bank. Unless an extension of the project is
approved, the financing liability for any incomplete project activities will devolve to the
Government of Uganda.
*  UNCST needs to precisely establish, by the Ist of August 2011, the financing for Rounds
1 and 2 grantees in order to identify savings, if any, and resolve the financial gap
threatening the progress of Round 3 of the competitive grants
*  MSI has demonstrated the complementary value of competitive funding for high quality
research, some of which already shows commercial potential. To sustain the system of
supporting competitive merit based research, its financing should be ensured within the
overall funding structure that also includes funding for research in public universities and
research institutes.
* The institutional capacity created under MSI of UNCST and UIRI must be fully utilized
and further strengthened to enable: (i) UNCST to undertake competitive program and
work with other stakeholders for effective coordination of STI policies in Uganda; and
(ii) UIRI to play a pivotal role in industrial development and practical training of
technicians and their teachers.
*  GoU should consider consolidating and capturing consolidated expenditure of the GoU
on STI research (for core funding to institutions, for different categories of centrally
funded research programs; and all other adhoc investments) in the national budget to
indicate the total funding being allocated to research
*  In order to strengthen the management of UNCST the GoU needs to urgently appoint the
Council and Executive Committee of UNCST.
*  The School Visit Programme and the National Science Week play a key role in raising
awareness of STI and need to be continued. UNCST has the capacity to continue these
but needs committed financial support by the GoU while strengthening the partnerships
with other stakeholders to jointly implement the National Science Week (NSW) and
exploring private sector financial contributions.
*  MoFPED and UNCST, in agreement with the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA), need to
urgently clarify and establish procedures for implementing the tax exempt status of
procurement of equipment and consumables for scientific purposes. It is unacceptable that
research equipment and consumables are sitting at Entebbe airport for half a year due to
unresolved tax issues despite a tax exemption status of UNCST.
4


﻿IV.    MISSION FINDINGS
A. Component 1: Provides competitively awarded grants through three different
windows, each dedicated to a specific purpose.
10.   The UNCST visits the research teams on a regular basis and obtains regular progress
reports The Mission visited seven grantees funded under Windows A, B and C. The
assessment of progress given below is based on data on progress, disbursement and
procurement obtained from the UNCST as well as information obtained during the Mission's
visits to the grantees.
(i)   Windows A and B
Round 1 and 2 of competitive grants.
11.   Results from the quarterly field visits and annual progress reviews indicate that, under
this component, over 500 scientists have been trained in research grant proposal writing
skills; and grants have been competitively awarded to multi-disciplinary research teams
working in universities, research institutes and industrial establishments across the country.
The Window A projects have produced promising and potentially commercial results such as
livestock feeds, and new sorghum and banana varieties that require incubation for industrial
production. A list of projects with commercialization potential is at Annex3. The Window B
projects have provided training to over 36601 scientists and engineers, at least 102 of whom
are being trained at Masters and PhD levels.
12.   Reviews also indicate that for several projects of Round 1, and Round 2 the intended
scientific goals are being reached. A number of publications have been written, though both
the experience and the culture to publish to international standards in international journals is
not yet widespread. This is an area that UNCST may consider supporting by inviting a few
internationally well-known Ugandan scientists to share their experience and provide
assistance, maybe in the form of a short course, to aspiring Ugandan researchers.
13.   Through Window B new and strategic undergraduate courses have been created, for
example in bio systems engineering and in textile technology that are expected to make a
significant contribution to the Ugandan economy. The working conditions and experimental
facilities for students and teaching staff have also been considerably improved. Given that the
project completion date is drawing near, and the significant delays that occurred in many
projects because of late arrival of equipment and consumables or late refurbishment of
buildings, the Principal Investigators (PIs) s need to make sure that students can complete
their studies, including the writing of the theses and publications. This may involve extending
the completion date beyond the original project schedule and some additional stipend
support. The Project targets for the number of students benefitting under the Masters and PhD
programs is on track.
' Includes students under Best Research Practice training, students enrolled in new STEprograrns, and students trained
under Window A, B and C funding portfolios of the MSI
5


﻿Round 3 of competitive grants
14.   There is a major issue related to Round 3 grantees that impacts both the financing as
well a necessary extension of project duration in order for the research activities under this
round to be completed. During the review mission in September 2008, it was agreed that a
third round of proposals for research grants would be invited to be financed through
supplemental financing that MoFPED would request from the Bank. It was also anticipated
that financing for the third round could also be partially available from savings within the
project budget. Under this premise, in January 2009, a call for proposals for Round 3 was
made. The call elicited a response from the scientific community that showed an
improvement both in numbers and quality over the previous two rounds and the technical
committee recommended 11 proposals for financing out of 137 received. However, the issue
of financing remained unresolved despite it being raised during the review missions in
September 2009 and 2010. In September 2010, MoFPED requested the Bank for reallocation
of funds among categories based on savings accruing within the project. Within a total
reallocation of XDR 2,673,083, research grants received an amount of XDR 2,058,274. This
amount however, is not adequate to finance fully all the selected grantee projects under
Round 3. It is also learnt that UNCST has signed contracts with all Round 3 grantees
selected.
15.   The Mission held very detailed discussion on possible resolution of this financing
dilemma. It was agreed that UNCST will:
*  Immediately undertake an exercise to determine the available excess funding with Round
I and 2 grantees. It was also emphasized that the grantees must be made aware that any
excess funds after completion of research need to revert to the project. While some
grantees have submitted requests for additional funds for completion of approved
activities, it is expected that savings will accrue from a large number of the research
projects.
* Immediately make an assessment of pending equipment procurement of Rounds 1 and 2
to determine whether it is necessary to initiate procurement when the teams have already
moved far ahead in their research through alternative sources.
*  Consult with Round 3 grantees to assess realistic needs for proposed equipment and
identify existing alternative sources.
*  Consult with Round 3 grantees to examine their budgets to rationalize costs, particularly
in areas where Rounds 1 and 2 have shown the possibility for savings.
*  Identify savings from within institutional budgets under the MSI.
16.   Based on the above, a clearer picture will emerge of funds available and the number
of Round 3 grantees that the project can finance. UNCST will develop transparent and
defendable criteria to carry out prioritization of research teams to be funded. Any financing
gaps, based on commitments already made by UNCST will need to be funded by GoU and
the Project bears no liability for it. This will be accomplished by 31 July 2011 and a final
decision taken in consultation with the World Bank team.
Procurement Issues
17.   Procurement for Round I and Round 2 projects is almost complete. However, given
the delays experienced in procurement, broad lessons can be drawn, and problem areas
identified where improvement is both necessary and possible:
6


﻿*  There are large gaps in the capacity of the institutions to undertake procurement. For
example, the NARO institutes have carried out procurement very efficiently but, and
surprisingly, Makerere University has experienced difficulties. UNCST has had to step in
on several occasions to help struggling institutions.
*  The possibility of greater decentralization needs to be explored. This may require
strengthening capacity at the institutional level.
*  Additionally, although consolidated procurement has clear advantages in providing lower
prices, it can also result in serious delays because the weakest link determines the pace.
*  For research projects with considerable procurement needs, start of research activities
should trail the planning of procurement by 3-6 months to ensure timely availability of
equipment and materials.
*  In case of any future calls for proposals, grantees should be required to identify the
equipment they will need at the time of proposal submission so that procurement might
start immediately after grant winners are announced
18.   Several grantees have expressed concerns about currency devaluation and its impact
on their budgets which were denominated in local currency. UNCST should consider whether
for specific projects some compensation is possible so that genuine dislocations of project
budgets do not have a negative impact on project outcomes. A key lesson learned, which was
also recorded in the Aide-M6moire of September 2009, is that there is a need for more
stringent scrutiny of proposed budgets, including the requirement for equipment. By
September 2009, the Round 3 selection was completed, and since no further Rounds have
followed, this conclusion could not be put to practice. However, in any future program for
competitive research grants, or for that matter for any funding of STI projects, more detailed
information on equipment needed or works to be carried out should be provided by
proponents at the time of submission of proposals, including a realistic estimate of the costs.
Scrutiny of these figures by the International Technical Committee would provide a
reasonable guarantee for these data to be correct.
Actions
*  All outstanding procurements financed under the project Rounds I and 2, and UNCST
and UIRI needs to be completed before the Project's closing date.
*  For Round 3, UNCST will undertake the action as indicated in Para 15 in order to inform
decision making in consultation with the Bank team.
(ii)  Window C
19.   Most Window C projects have either been already completed or will be completed by
the end of 2011. Though the outcomes are promising, as noted by previous missions,
improvements in the design are needed, particularly to create higher and more balanced
incentives for participants from industry and universities and/or institutes. Due to budgetary
as well as constraints, no new projects can be undertaken. The Mission's focus, therefore, has
focused on lessons learned that may guide any future funding for competitively based
research grants.
Lessons learned- Component 1
* The focus of research should shift towards areas of national priority where research is
critically needed but is under or unfunded.
7


﻿*  Improved planning for execution of research grant funds - e.g. research to start later than
procurement, greater scrutiny of research budgets, early identification of equipment and
works.
*  Promote collaboration between teams of different institutions, including, wherever
possible, international partners
*  Reassess the size of grants to be supported - focus should be more on relevance of
research than the size of grant.
*  UNCST should continue to supervise the projects under the various Windows, and report
any emerging institutional issues for action to the concerned institutions.
*  For Window B projects the beneficiary institutions need to strengthen their internal
supervision of these projects and incorporate these into their broad strategies for
institutional strengthening.
*  In future, proposals for Technology Platforms type activities should also be competitive.
Strategies must be devised to significantly increase the number of applicants.
*  More financial scrutiny of project budgets both before approval and during
implementation; UNCST should improve its mechanisms of budgetary control.
*  All relevant tax issues must be discussed and resolved during the design stage of any
future project or undertaking of any research program that involves procurement.All
options, within institutional and government guidelines, must be explored for increasing
flexibility, improving efficiency and reducing time lags in procurement. Necessary
training may be provided for minimizing capacity related delays. The grantees should be
required to provide equipment needs at the time of proposal submission.
*  Companies and educational institutions should improve their processes keeping in mind
the following: curricula must reflect industry needs; assigning students to specific
individuals in companies and assisting these employees to mentor students; and
identifying student projects relevant for the company before the start of a Technology
Platform.
*  In calls for proposals, the relevance of Technology Platforms for product development in
particular areas such as energy, or products based on natural materials should be stressed.
In addition, entrepreneurship training should be explicitly part of the proposals.
*  Grant agreements for Technology Platform need to comprise arrangements (MoUs)
between companies and universities and/or research institutes about intellectual property
rights and sharing of any revenues/income deriving there from. .
*  To create a structural basis for Window C-like projects, UTIRI should more actively
engage with industry organisations such as the Uganda Manufacturers Association, and
those representing the service sector and public utilities. This would also serve as a
learning process for industry. The internship programme needs to be re-designed so as to
better accommodate constraints of students as to duration, ensure training of company
staff to guide students, and working more closely with faculty at concerned institutions.
Marketing needs to better address the 'end-users', i.e. students, as well as university
departments.
B. Component 2: Support an Outreach program, plus institutional strengthening,
M&E, and policy studies.
21.    Outreach Program: The overall aim of the Outreach program is to raise public
awareness and appreciation at all levels for STI and its role in national development. The
programme has three components: (i) school visits by science role models (SVP), (ii) the
8


﻿national science week (NSW) and (iii) policy studies. In addition, UNCST is trying to step up
its role in communicating science, technology and innovation more widely through a
communications campaign.
(i)   School visits
22.   The program of school visits has become a highly appreciated element in UNCST's
efforts to reach out to secondary schools and thus give prospective students a glimpse into
studying and/or a career in science. The programme was originally linked to the NSW but is
now ongoing throughout the year. UNCST has developed a good methodology that includes a
stakeholder workshop for education practitioners, and target schools and role models so as to
align expectations and increase effectiveness. Sixty secondary schools (both public and
private) will have been visited by the end of June 2011 across the country, in both urban as
well as in rural areas. Twenty thousand students, parents and teachers will have participated,
with involvement of over 40 role models representing a diverse background (universities,
private companies, parliament, UNESCO, the Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES) ,
SchoolNet, etc.). With more targeted publicity, the number of participating schools can be
increased substantially. UNCST has gained valuable insights and experience from
implementing the program. For example, it is observed that for girls and students from rural
areas the idea of getting involved in science is exciting and new but the lack of guidance in
schools about careers in general and science in particular inhibits the pursuit of science
education. There is also little knowledge of the relevance of S&T in daily lives and of the
simple things that can be done at home and in schools, such as recycling of waste or energy
conservation. The disparities in teaching resources such as labs, teachers, equipment or books
among schools are huge and the lack of enthusiasm of teachers is reported to be a major
stumbling block.
Acdons
*  UNCST will seek funding to continue the School Visits program beyond the MSI project.
It would be appropriate for UNCST to explore the possibility of contributory funding for
this program through the MOES
*  UNCST should share its observations and recommendations with MOES as these may
inform policy interventions for improvements in the quality of science education at the
school level.
(ii)  National Science Week (NSW)
23.   The NSW has been an annual feature for the last four years with the scope enlarged
and deepened in each successive year. It has now come to encompass a variety of elements:
*  The National Researchers' Conferences,
*  Recognition of valuable research and scientific activity (MSI awardees, winners of
secondary school science quizzes, Presidential Science Awards, Best Papers at Annual
Scientific Conference, Best Exhibitors at National STI Exhibitions),
*  Providing a platform to eminent policy makers, national and regional scientists,
educational institutions, and the private sector for Policy Dialogues on STI related topics,
*  Organizing Science contests; Science Clubs, Science Caf6s; and STI Exhibitions,
*  Public Communication Campaigns through TV, Radio, and the press.
9


﻿24.   The NSW events are attracting increasing attention from scientific institutions and
scientists, local governments, schools, museums7 and politicians. Several key stakeholders
have cooperated with UNCST to plan and implement the NSW.
25.   UNCST has carried out an internal evaluation of the NSW which suggests that there
are areas for continuing improvements. For example, (i) the National Researcher's
conference might be expanded into an event that provides a meeting place for researchers
from several disciplines (currently it focuses on only one) using satellite technologies if
feasible to hold events following a high-profile plenary session (ii) the Policy Dialogue
would benefit from more focused themes and concentration in time; and (iii) a science
policy inspired dialogue which might be valuable for both scientists, heads of scientific
institutions, policy makers and politicians, private sector representatives and the media.
Actions
*  UNCST will seek more formal partnerships with the organisations that are already
cooperating in planning and implementing the NSW to share the human resources efforts
required to organise the NSW. Private sector financial contributions should also be
explored.
*  In order to provide for a stronger regional base for the school contests (such as debates
and quizzes) , ensuing in a national contest of regional winners, UNCST will attempt,
together with MOES, to create a network of science teachers throughout Uganda who
could then be responsible for organising the regional contests with UNCST's support and
guidance..
* The School Visits programme and the Science Communications Campaign will be
formally developed into continuous activities, and no longer linked to the NSW only.
(iii)  Policy Studies
26.   The World Bank had supported a two day policy workshop in December 2010 to
enable UNCST to develop a framework which could guide in developing a detailed
implementation plan for the STI study. The study Science Technology and Innovation in
Uganda was also disseminated at the workshop. Since then, UNCST has conducted policy
studies as part of process for developing a plan for implementing the national STI policy
(2009) with the objective of identifying benchmarks and best practices in implementing
national STI policies. These studies have examined the National STI structures, financing and
coordination systems of India, Malaysia and Finland with a view to adapting and customizing
their systems or informing the development of Uganda's STI system. These complement the
policy dialogues and consultative exercises that UNCST has engaged in with subject matter
specialists in the various thematic areas that the national STI plan will address. Policy studies
were also conducted on the relevance of the technology achievement index (TAI) in
measuring technological achievement in developing countries, rethinking public perceptions
of brain drain/brain gain in the context of increased financial remittances by Ugandan
Diaspora, and the extent and areas of increased participation of women in science and
technology.
the Uganda Museum has offered their facilities every year since 2009
10


﻿Lessons learned: Outreach programs
Outreach, including quality publicity material and website, needs to become a
permanent and ongoing feature.
(iv)  Strengthening of UNCST
27.   The restructuring and strengthening of UNCST focused on strengthening the
implementation capacity for MSI; reorganizing the structure and management; adopting
strengthened internal mechanisms; upgrading skill levels and administrative procedures; and
providing for a modern, efficient working environment. It is also sought to strengthen the
Council capacity for engaging with sectoral stakeholders in joint activities as a practical form
of coordination; publishing annual accounts of budgets; and building human capital.
28.   UNCST has made considerable progress towards strengthening its capability to
implements a program such as MSI in addition to its other responsibilities such as its role in
formulating national policies for STI, research registration, bio safety etc. It needs, however,
to be acknowledged that overall capacity is stretched. The use of interns was crucial to
deliver MSI as UNCST's staff strength is fixed by the GoU. A larger role as envisaged in
UNCST's statutes and more particularly in the implementation of the National STI Policy
approved by the GoU in 2009, will require a reassessment of its complement of staff. Work
pressures are enhanced for the small staff complement due to leave and other professional
obligations etc.
29.   The infrastructure (housing, ICT including videoconferencing, furnishing) has
been completely renewed, thanks to MSI and additional support from the GoU. The new
office complex at Ntinda now houses all staff and provides a modem, functional and efficient
work environment for UNCST's personnel. Human resources capabilities too have been
considerably improved in all relevant areas through extensive training and in-house practice.
However, some problems persist, largely related to weak ICT infrastructure. UNCST's
website has recently suffered significant problems. It has been down for several weeks and
was expected to be operational by 25 June, but it deserves proper attention from the
responsible staff as well as senior management to prevent similar problems from recuing.
The e-mail system  too seems to suffer from  problems.  The capacity for grants
management, from supporting the selection process through international peer review to
maintaining the contacts with a substantial number of grantees (from 7 to 42), has developed
to a significant degree. The statements of the International Technical Committee endorse this.
30.   The procurement team has been able to cope with the full range of procurement
categories (from works to goods to services) including both volumes and diversity of items.
The speed of putting together procurement plans has improved substantially. Audits, both by
the World Bank and the GoU have attested to this, though some procedural aspects need
further improvement. Areas for further attention include maximising the flexibility in order to
reduce delays in procurement, and streamlining procedural agreements with MOFPED and
URA with regard to tax exemptions for scientific equipment and consumables arriving in the
country. The June 2011 communication of MOFPED confirming the general tax exemption
status of scientific equipment and consumables acquired by UJNCST is helpful, but further
simplification of arrangements regarding allocation of budget to offset tax payments and the
transfer of these budgets to the revenue authorities is needed to avoid delays currently
occurring. Currently equipment and consumables have been held up at Entebbe airport for
half a year. This situation is untenable as it costs money for storage, delays the research,
11


﻿equipment may need repairs because of inadequate storage conditions, and chemicals may be
rendered useless for the same reason.
31.   The reviews of the World Bank's Financial Management team indicate that the
quality of the financial administration and accounting is far improved. The accounting
system in use is based on an advanced version of previously used Navision software, and
delivers full accounts of the previous year on the first day of a new fiscal year. Disbursement
from UNCST to beneficiaries is smooth. Any existing problems in this area are due largely to
absorption problems at the recipient end. An independent audit undertaken by the Bank
points to some areas of weakness that need further strengthening.
32.   All necessary procedural manuals, whether dictated by national requirements such
as in the financial and auditing area or by UNCST's own needs as in the operational area, are
in place and staff is trained to work in accordance to their prescriptions.
33.   A schedule of annual plans and budgets (for UNCST as a whole, and for MSI in
particular) is maintained according to internal rules, with units providing inputs to
management for approval and consolidation.. Stable and predictable budgetary allocations
from MSI have made it possible for the UNCST to have a structured annual work program.
As the project winds down, a predictable and stable budgetary allocation from GoU, will be
necessary to ensure sustainable continuation of UNCST's ability to deliver on its mandate as
well as build upon the activities successfully launched under MSI.
34.   The restructuring of UNCST prior to the implementation of MSI has resulted in an
organisational structure that has proved effective over the past years in providing for
adequate enabling conditions to implement MSI and support UNCST in working together
with other key stakeholders in Uganda's STI system. UNCST's role and the national agency
for coordinating STI efforts and leading policy dialogue will become increasingly important
as the National STI Policy is implemented, and may require a further review and
strengthening of its organisational structure. The current on-going Public Service review is
examining the options in this regard: should UNCST remain as is; should it become an
"Authority"; or should it develop into a ministry for S&T. Whatever the outcome of the
above review, there are two issues that need immediate attention:
* Active leadership of senior management is crucial to motivate staff, and supporting
UNCST on its mandate of providing clear direction on important policy and
implementation issues, building relations with other STI organisations and ministries
concerned, and fostering international partnerships. The Mission has noted the lack of
progress in nominating members to the formal Council and the Executive Committee of
JNCST. The Aide-Memoire of the review mission of September 2010 had highlighted
this issue and was assured that this would receive attention. The mission reemphasises
this and urges MoFPED to urgently address this issue. This is essential to enhance
management accountability in UNCST, and to strengthen its role as Government's
premier agency for STI.
* International cooperation with countries such as South Africa. UNCST signed a
Memorandum of Understanding with the Republic of South Africa in 2009 for
cooperation in the field of STI. This MoU has potential to be an effective instrument to
strengthen the STI agenda in Uganda. UNCST should propose an agenda for cooperation
under the MoU without further loss of time. Concrete proposals should be made to South
12


﻿Africa, which may include areas such as: (i) assistance in building up capabilities in IPR;
(ii) faculty exchange in subject areas of priority, (iii) strengthening capabilities in the oil
and mining sector, and (iv) the transportation business. It may also explore a program for
joint calls for proposals for research projects.
Actions
*  UNCST and MOFPED (in consultation/agreement with the URA) reach an agreement, at
the earliest opportunity, on efficient procedures to deal with issues of tax exemption and
clearance at entry points into Uganda to ensure speedy clearance of items procured..
*  MOFPED and UNCST will simplify and expedite the process for opening letters of credit
for bulk equipment procured using International Competitive Bidding.
*  MOFPED will urgently address the appointment of non-ex officio members of the
Council, as well as its Chairperson.
*  UNCST will prepare concrete proposals for scientific and technological cooperation with
South Africa within the principles of the existing MoU between the two countries.
(v)   Strengthening of UIRI
35.   The MSI has supported UIRI for; (i) establishing the Industry Resource Centre; (ii)
strengthening the Technology Development Centre, refurbishing the pilot facilities and
laboratories; (iii) improving the general purpose infrastructure (including the ICT
infrastructure); (iv) strengthening business incubation and business development, and
embarking on an ambitious programme of staff development. In addition UIRI was
responsible for promotion of the MSI project's component Window C (technology platforms
and internships) among companies and the academic community. Of the total amount of US$
5 m set aside for UIRI $US 4.6 m was for investments, and about $ US 0.4 m was for
recurrent costs to be spread over the duration of the MSI project.
36.   The Mission Team was given an extensive update on UIRI's accomplishments both as
a result of the MSI investments as well as considerable government support triggered in no
small measure by its accomplishments under the MSI. The mission is highly satisfied with
UIRI's achievements. All funds except a very small fraction (approximately 5%, most of
which is held up because of lack of compliant bids for procurement) have been disbursed and
the works, goods and services procured have all been executed. Management of UIRI has had
to prioritise the remodelling of buildings because of increases in construction costs. As a
consequence some laboratories and pilot plants still lack refurbishing. ICT connectivity
supported under MSI (both on the local premises and to the Internet) is considered a major
asset. All equipment has been installed and is operational; the mechanical engineering
department is carrying out an extensive programme of calibration and expects to be fully
operational by September 2011. Despite a financing shortfall for a full CAD/CAM facility,
UIRI plans to offer more basic CAD/CAM services. All the new units within UIRI that were
planned are now operational including the Industry Resource Centre (IRC) which provides a
variety of data on industry in Uganda for all interested parties. One problem the IRC
encounters is that Ugandan companies are hesitant to share detailed information about
machinery they are using and other technological investments because of concerns of leakage
of information to competitors, and fears that data might be leaked to the tax authorities.
37.   The Technology Development Centre has a considerable number of value addition
projects at hand (bamboo, ceramics, food processing, carpentry products, and natural soap
production). Other product development that has taken off includes: cosmetics, food-grade
13


﻿enzymes, electronic and renewable energy systems products. The vaccine plant is operational
with arrange of vaccines to be produced for the Ugandan market. The Microbiology Lab
(including modem biotechnology facilities) and the chemistry lab are providing services to
prestigious customers such as Air Uganda and the Ministry of Health. UIRI realises that it is
now at an important juncture where it has to generate much more income from the services it
offers. Such income has already risen but at USh 20m is still at a low level, which is partly
due to choosing to offer some incubation services for free in order to stimulate potential
businesses as much as possible. UIRI has made a formal proposal to the Department of
Tourism and Industry to commercialise part of its services to a much larger degree, and is
exploring possibility of help of Danish experts for this.
38.   A key development in FY2010/2011 has been the conclusion of more partnerships
with Ugandan universities and international bodies such as Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research (CSIR) of South Africa. Another key development is the considerable
increase in incubator services. The Business Development Centre and the pilot plants are
playing a crucial in this. UIRI now assists some 30 incubatees, of which 10 are in-house.
They are working mostly in the pilot processing plants where they are being trained in using
expensive equipment for which bank loans would not be available to them because banks
need to be convinced of the technical and commercial capabilities of would-be entrepreneurs
and their employees. One incubatee works in the electrical and electronics lab on product
development to set up a business in science equipment for schools. Others are being trained
on how to use ICT for supporting a variety of business processes. The considerable range of
equipment and machinery in UIRI enables it to provide practically-oriented training which is
otherwise difficult to obtain.  As there were no further calls for project proposals, the
promotion of Window C activities (Technology Platforms and internships) could not be
continued. However, UIRI is convinced of the great value of these activities to bridge the gap
between companies and the still relatively theoretical approaches being pursued in
universities and educational institutions UIRI's staff has increased from 40 in 2006 to
approximately 200 at present.
39.   As to the wider context several constraints would need to be tackled to promote
Ugandan industry, in particular the manufacturing industry. These include: (i) lack of
instruments currently available to GoU to support SMEs, to carry out innovative R&D, or to
commercialise innovations e.g. through support for scaling up; (ii) lack of adequate high
quality industrial supplies in Uganda. Setting up a facility, which might originate in UIRI but
needs to be an independent commercial business, for producing dedicated tools is a possible
solution worth exploring. These facilities are vital for creating a culture of high-quality
manufacturing in Uganda and could have a considerable regional impact; (iii) addressing the
issue of quality education and skills mix. At this stage of development of Uganda, while
supporting more MSc and PhD graduates and entrepreneurial skills in general, it is important
to train different levels of technicians, as well as improve the quality of instructors for these
technicians in an environment where advanced equipment is available for hands-on training.
UIRI, which now boasts several of these facilities, can play a key role in supporting other
technical institutes to significantly increase the number of technicians and trainers of
technicians which would be a major boon to Ugandan industrial development.
40.   The client satisfaction survey on UIRI performed as part of PDO4 underlines the
greater visibility of and satisfaction with the services of UIRI.
14


﻿Actions
*  UIRI still has some funds remaining under MSI. UIRI will prioritise its outstanding
procurement items, and a revised Procurement plan will be submitted to the UNCST by 8
July 2011 for onward submission to the WB to expedite procurement.
*  UIRI should continue to monitor the evolution of the technological status of Ugandan
industry, despite the reluctance of some Ugandan companies to share detailed
information.
*  UIRI is uniquely positioned with modem equipment that could be used to strengthen
trainer competencies through hands-on training for the delivery of improved vocational
and technical education. UIRI should engage in dialogue with MOES to identify the role
it can play within the framework of the draft national BTVET strategy.
Lessons learned: Institutional Strengthening
*  Effective leadership of the institutions is crucial. Responsibilities for decision making and
review of overall implementation of programs within the implementing agency need to be
clearly defined and exercised to avoid implementation ambiguities (e.g. the handling of
financing Round 3 grantees beyond available project funds).
*  Roles and responsibilities between UNCST and UIRI should have been clearly defined
from the outset.
*  Although procurement has been generally satisfactory, specific issues related to
procurement highlighted in other sections of this aide memoire apply.
V.    ISSUES TO DO WITH STI POLICY AND SUSTAINABILITY
41.   Although MSI was developed as project with a finite time frame but in intent, it laid
the foundations for supporting STI, specifically research which it was expected would be
continued either through a follow up project or with budget support from the Government
The project intended to lay a strong foundation for continued development of STI through:
*  Established mechanisms for a competitive and transparent funding mechanism for
research grants;
*  Piloting two methods of promoting cooperation between industry and public research and
education institutions as a pointer towards more expanded ways of doing so;
*  Strengthening key institutions to enable them to play a lead role in the conceptualization
and implementation of STI policies, and for creating a base for technology development,
innovation support and business development for the private sector;
*  Illustrating, through the National Science Week and the School Visits Programme, the
importance and the feasibility of reaching out to schools, the public at large, the media,
and other key stakeholders to convince them of the central place of science, technology,
education and innovation for development.
42.   In general, support for STI requires a variety of distinct but complementary funding
mechanisms, which fall into four broad categories:
* Core funding to institutions, to be distinguished in funding for research for public
universities and funding for research institutes (such as UIRI) or organisations (such as
NARO or the NHRO);
15


﻿*  Competitive funding to individual PIs and their teams, and/or for collaborative teams
from different institutions;
*  Programme funding that typically involves cooperation between teams of different
institutions; and strong involvement of sector agencies in defining priorities. These
programs may, but need not necessarily, be funded through a competitive mechanism,
though in the absence of competition strong vetting is needed to guarantee quality;
* A variety of support mechanisms to industry with the aim of promoting innovation, which
could range from tax deductions for R&D personnel or technology acquisitions, direct
support for innovative development projects and for first-stage commercialisation efforts,
support for business incubation/development, technology parks, etc. UIRI has the
capacity to function as the executive agency for this, with Chinese walls to avoid conflict
of interest with its R&D, demonstration and direct company support functions.
43.   Currently a number of important funding initiatives exist in support of STI in Uganda.
These include: Presidential Science Initiatives, MSI, Technology Acquisition Fund as part of
the World Bank supported Second Private Sector Programme, funding for NARO and other
sectoral research institutions including UIRI. Financing for these initiatives is often
temporary, and lacking a strategic context, institutional embedding, and synergies and
coordination. Therefore, for long term and sustained STI led economic growth and human
development it is important that, in addition to the above, the diverse set of instruments, with
predictable financing are employed to support STI: (i) Core funding to universities and
organizations such as NARO, (ii) merit-based competitive funding to specialised teams for
cutting edge research. The recognition of STI as a sector in the National Development Plan
and the approval by the GoU of the National Policy for STI in 2009 provide sound foundation
for building up and employing these diverse instruments to support STI. Useful innovation
can emerge from competitively funded projects in universities, research institutes or in
combination with industry. A few projects supported by the MSI already demonstrate
commercial potential.
44.   GoU, UNCST, UIRI and other research organisations should agree on the further
steps for diversifying and institutionalizing STI funding as part of the National Plan for the
Implementation of the National Policy that is currently being developed by the UNCST in
accordance with its mandate. A Road Map was agreed at a conference in December 2010
which was organised with the support of the World Bank. Key elements of this drafting
exercise are a dialogue with all sector stakeholders for the identification of priorities, a study
of a few foreign STI systems to identify most feasible options for Uganda, and regional
consultation to capture the opportunities provided by diversity in the country's various
regions. UNCST expects to complete the plan by November in order for it to inform budget
preparation for FY 2012/2013.
45.   The Mission recommends that a key element of the National Plan should be an open
dialogue with sectoral and regional stakeholders (such as NARO/Min of Agriculture,
UNHRO/Ministry of Health, UIRJ/Min of Industry, UNCHE/Min of Education, Min. of
Energy Min. of ICT, Environment, Water Resources, the oil sector etc) to come up with a
joint medium- and long-term and budgeted plan for dedicated research programs,
infrastructure investments to facilitate research, instruments to support industry, and
competitive and core funding instruments for basic and strategic research.
46.   While this implies an informal coordinating role for UNCST, more formal
institutional mechanisms for coordination need to be developed. Independent of the outcome
16


﻿of the Public Service Review as to the position of the UNCST, the increasing role of STI in
development in Uganda necessitates the need for a strong and effective agency to lead and
coordinate STI development. UNCST is mandated to play the lead role in STI role and
should be supported for continued growth to take on the emerging responsibilities. To enable
UNCST to play the lead role in STI development in Uganda, strengthening its governance
system takes on added urgency. The essential prerequisite is a distinction between the
executive responsibility (in UNCST's case this is the Executive Secretary) which includes
preparing a strategy and bearing full responsibility for executing strategy through annual
plans and budgets on the one hand, and supervisory responsibilities vested in a non-executive
supervisory body (in UNCST's case the Council) whose members also operate in the sole and
exclusive interest of the organization concerned, and to which the Executive Secretary reports
to obtain approval on major decisions, such as approving a multi-annual strategy, the annual
budget and accounts and key investments. This provides for the right balance, supervision of,
and guidance to top management as well as for corrective mechanisms.
47.   The recognition of STI as a sector in the NDP needs to be underpinned by an annual
STI budget which is captures all Government expenditure for STI. In particular it should
include (a) all core government funding to universities and sectoral research institutes/
organizations; (b) all centrally allocated funds, whether competitive or not, that serve
strategicmulti-sector, and multi-disciplinary science base, and (c) all ad-hoc funds such as the
Innovation Fund and the Presidential Science Initiatives etc. Such a budget will enhance
visibility of STI and will underscore the commitment of the GoU to STI.
VI.   PROCUREMENT
48..   The mission reviewed overall progress for each of the components as presented in the
summary below:
Description  Number of Number of Grantees whose No. of outstanding contracts
(Grantees)   Grantees     procurement    has   been
concluded
Round 1      12           11                          Sorghum   &   Maize   project
(Makerere University) - 3
outstanding  contracts,  i.e.,
supply of; Textile Analyzer,
Bioreactor & Ice corn making
machine
Round 2      15           5 plus 2 who did not have any  4  contracts for  supply  of
procurement                laboratory equipment, reagents,
textbooks and software have not
yet been completed.
Round 3      12           None.   3   contracts  for 4 contracts for chemicals and
laboratory  renovations  in reagents are under process by
Gulu University, chemicals NASARRI, NARO, Gulu and
and reagents for KARL and Makerere universities.
ESMP    plan  for  Mbarara
University   have    been Contract     for    Laboratory
completed.                 equipment using ICB for all the
institutions has not commenced
17


﻿49.   The mission noted that the outstanding contracts for round I and 2 grantees are from
Makerere University. It was agreed that UNCST will establish, no later than July 10, 2011,
whether the equipment is still required and undertake the procurement processes on behalf of
the grantees for the contracts that are still required.
50.   The mission noted that UNCST had undertaken the procurement processes for some
of the key contracts initially scheduled to be implemented by the Grantees. As a result,
implementation of some of the key contracts scheduled for FY 10/11 had commenced and are
expected to be completed by September 2011. These include: renovation/remodeling of
laboratories in Makerere university and Gulu university.
51.   The mission was informed that for the pending equipment and supplies4 under Round
I & 2 Grantees under procurement by UNCST, delivery had not yet been completed due to
delays in opening letters of credit and clearance of consignments by Uganda Revenue
Authority. The delays are partly due to new procedures in the MoFPED which require a
series of approvals. It was agreed that the delays will be discussed with MoFPED and will be
followed up.
52.   The mission also reviewed the progress on procurement by UIRI and noted that all the
initial contracts scheduled had been completed. The remodeling works for selected buildings
at UIRI - the Business Development Centre, Laboratories and the renovation works at Kabale
Business Development Centre were completed and the equipment installed. It was noted that
3 contracts for: supply and installation of machinery and equipment for plastic cup
technology, equipment for design office and accounting software had not commenced. The
mission recommended that UIRI will only process the contract for equipment for the design
office due to insufficient funds available and the limited time period to process the supply
and installation of machinery using International Competitive Bidding. The accounting
software is no longer required since Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) will be
installed in UIRI in July 2011.
53.   The mission discussed findings and recommendations for the post procurement
review concluded during the mission. There was an improvement from the previous year's
review in the areas of record keeping and preparation of comprehensive bidding documents.
For contracts processed by the grantees, there were delays in obtaining approval of the
contracts committee upon completion of the evaluation processes. For one of the contracts
reviewed (Spectrum Analyzer), approval was obtained 6 months after completion of the
evaluation. Two contracts5 implemented by UNCST did not comply with some of the bidding
and evaluation procedures. The bidding stage for the contract for renovation of College of
Health Sciences (Makerere University) included a pre-bid meeting. Following the pre-bid
meeting, only 2 out of the 5 firms were issued with the addendum to the bidding document.
For the contract for supply of office furniture for UNCST, two bidders were unfairly
disqualified resulting in a loss of approximately Shs 32,493,000 which is the difference in
price between the awarded supplier and the lowest bidder.
 College of Health Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Centre for Agricultural research, Kabanyolo
4 Supply of Laboratory equipment for NACRRI, Makerere and Kyambogo Universities, Laboratory consumables.
Supply of Officefurniture for UNCST offices and renovation of laboratories for College of Health Sciences
18


﻿54.   The mission also discussed the findings of the in depth financial management review
and noted that the PDU did not make available the complete procurement files to the auditors
during the review. With regard to findings on hotel venues, the mission recommended that
the PDU undertakes the procuring of hotel venues and not the users.
Procurement by Grantees
55.   The mission noted good progress with two grantee institutions - Mbarara University
and NACCRI. In Mbarara University, all the contracts for Round I & 2 had been completed
and the procurement processes for Round 3 had commenced. In NACRRI, most contracts
except computer software had been completed.
56.   It was noted that the grantees in Makerere University and Mulago Hospital have been
slow in implementing a number of contracts. These include; Sorghum and Maize project in
Makerere and School of Health Sciences in Mulago. It was agreed that The PDU of UNCST
will follow up with the grantees to determine whether the items are still required and for
those that are required, the PDU will undertake the procurement in light of the limited time
available to complete the projects prior to the project closing date.
57.   In light of the slow progress by some of the sub-grantees and limited monitoring on
progress of the grantees by UNCST, the rating on procurement performance is moderately
satisfactory.
Lessons learnt from Round I and 2 procurementy
* Delays in commencement and completion of contracts were attributed to technical and
procurement capacity constraints. In order to ensure timely commencement and
completion of procurement contracts, a detailed assessment of the technical and
procurement capacity at the grantee level should be undertaken and where there are gaps,
short term technical and procurement expertise should be contracted to support the
grantees.
*   Monitoring of procurement performance by the Grantees. In the last three missions, it
was noted that UNCST was not monitoring procurement performance at the grantee level.
As a result, a number of contracts were processed late and others did not comply with the
procurement arrangements specified in the financing agreement. The mission
recommends that UNSCT develops a monitoring plan for each of the grantee institutions.
The plan will be submitted on a quarterly basis to IDA for information.
VII. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
58.   The Bank carried out an in-depth FM review of the project in the months of April and
May 2011 covering FM aspects of the project at UNCST to ascertain the overall functioning
and reliability of FM arrangements. During this mission, discussions were held on the draft
report with the finance and accounting staff on financial management aspects including (i)
the overview of the FM arrangements for the Project, (ii) major findings of the review and
(iii) possible actions to mitigate the identified risks. The overall financial management
arrangements for the MSI Project are rated as moderately satisfactory.
19


﻿59.   Progress was recorded regarding quality of quarterly reporting submitted by UJNCST
using the improved accounting software. Internal audit reviews are regularly carried out by
the responsible Internal Audit staff of UNCST covering the Council and sub grantees with
recommendations addressed to management.
60.   As a result of the FM review, Mission advised that emphasis be given to the following
areas:
*  Bank reconciliations should be carried out on a regular and timely basis while reconciling
items are resolved within reasonable times.
* Accountable staff advances should be followed up and strict internal controls regarding
advances should be adhered to, to avoid re-occurrence.
* The Fixed Assets Register should be comprehensive to capture key identities of assets
and regularly updated.
*  For enhanced governance and oversight, there is need to urgently constitute the governing
Council of UNCST.
* Given that the balance on the credit is about $11.5 million and outstanding commitments
to grantees stand at $11 million, critical financial analysis needs to be done to ensure
sufficient funding is available for full implementation including UNCST mobilizing
additional resources in time for full settlement of the balances.
*  Mission continues to advise that UNCST pursues the recovery or compensation of the
motorcycle that was stolen at their premises with the intervention of MOFPED that hires
the security firm.
(i)   Disbursement
61.   As of June 25, 2011, disbursements under the credit stood at $21.7 million out of the
current credit value of $33.2 million (historical credit of $30 million) representing 65%
utilization and leaving a balance of $11.5 million where the current closing date for the
project is December 31, 2011.
(ii)  Sub Grants
62.   About 40 MSI sub-grants have been awarded in the first, second and third rounds with
a total grant amount of $23 million of which $12 million has been disbursed to grantees
leaving a balance of $11 million. Given that the project closes on December 31, 2011 and
most sub-grant agreements run far beyond this date, there is an urgent need to ensure that all
sub-agreements are fully funded for full implementation beyond this project. Full
implementation will require extra funding since UNCST will need to cover its operating
costs.
(iii)  Audit
63.   The end of year audit arrangement for the project is on course. Management of the
external audit process should improve to ensure timely submission of the final audit report to
the Bank. We expect the current year audit report to be submitted by December 31, 2011.
VHI. CONCLUSION
64.   The Mission wishes to express its gratitude for the support and cooperation extended
to the Mission by the officials and staff of MOFPED, UNCST and UIRI. The next review
Mission, including the International Technical Committee is expected to be fielded in
20


﻿September 2011 to coincide the 5  National Science week. The International Technical
Committee would be also invited to meet in September for an overall review of research
projects supported under Rounds I and 2.
Ms. Sukhdeep Brar
Senior Education Specialist and Task Team Leader (MSI)
The World Bank
Uganda Country Office
Kampala
21


﻿22


﻿Annex 1
List of Persons met
1. Ms. Jennifer Muwuliza    MoFPED
2. Mr. John Byaruhanga      MoFPED
3. Mr. Geoffrey Turyamuhika  MoFPED
4. Dr. Peter Ndemere        UNCST
5. Dr. Maxwell Otim         UNCST
6. Mr. Ismail Barugahara    UNCST
7. Ms. Mylia Rubanzana      UNCST
8. Mr. Tom Byaruhanga       UNCST
9. Mr. Anthony Okimat       UNCST
10. Mr. Robert Epaye        UNCST
11. Mr. Kato Tucker         UNCST
12. Mrs. Hellen N. Opolot   UNCST
13. Mrs. Ruth Tugume        UNCST
14. Ms. Leah Nawegulo       UNCST
15. Mrs. Deborah Kasule     UNCST
16. Mrs. Catherine Munabi   UNCST
17. Mr. Sulaiman Sebbale    UNCST
18. Ms. Loi Namugenyi       UNCST
19. Mr. Richard Lutalo      UNCST
20. Mr. Bashir Kagere       UNCST
21. Mr. Edward Tujunirwe    UNCST
22. Mr. Collins Mwesigwa    UNCST
23. Mr. Emmanuel Tumwebonire Uganda Industrial Research Institute
24. Mr. Chris Katwesigye    Uganda Industrial Research Institute
25. Mr. Abbas Nimanya       Uganda Industrial Research Institute
26. Mr. Vincent Makhoha     Uganda Industrial Research Institute
27. Mr. Moses Ahebwa        Uganda Industrial Research Institute
28. Mr. Anthony Kwehangana  Uganda Industrial Research Institute - Kabale
29. Dr. Thomas Egwang       Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
30. Prof Joseph Olobo       Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
31. Dr. Adoke Yeka          Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
32. Dr. Jane Achan          Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
33. Dr. Edward Ntege        Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
34. Dr. Betty Balikagala    Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
35. Sylvia Kiconco          Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
36. Connie Agwang           Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
37. Tonny Owalla            Medi- Biotechnology Laboratory
38. Mr. Eiash Mayanja       New Wave Technologies
39. Mr. Ash Luwambo         New Wave Technologies
40. Dr. Charles Mondo       College of Health Sciences - Mulago Heart Institute
41. Dr. Charles Musoke      College of Health Sciences - Mulago Heart Institute
42. Dr. Zhang Wanzhu        College of Health Sciences - Mulago Heart Institute
43. Dr. Okello Emmy         College of Health Sciences -Mulago Heart Institute
1


﻿44. Dr. Yona Baguna         National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
45. Dr. Anthony Obua        National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
46. Ms. Atim Jackie         National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
47. Ms. Phillip Abidrabo    National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
48. Ms. Jacinta Akol        National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
49. Ms. Kasipha Katono      National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
50. Mr. Alex Abacha         National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
51. Mr. Henry Wabgaba       National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
52. Ms. Justin Najuma       National Crop Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI)
53. Prof Allen Babugura     Kabale University
54. Dr. Aine-omucunguzi Adalbert  Kabale University
55. Mr. Charles Ndyomugabi        Kabale University
56. Mr. Jones Murangira           Kabale University
57. Mr. Bernard Barigye     Kabale National Teachers College
58. Ms. Betty Busingye      Kabale National Teachers College
2


﻿Annex 2
MSI PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK
- Ti                                                                  V L Ijj
Universities    PDO Indicator 1:       Researchers (#)  261522
and research    Size/number and        Publications   5 (2.0%)      45 (6 9%)
institutes      productivity (measured  (%)            4 (1.7%)      17 (2.6%)
produce more    by publications, patent  Publications2  5 (2.1%)     35 (5.3%)
and better      applications, and                      5 (2.2%)      23 (3.5%)
qualified S&T   number of students     (%     i  3     5 (2.0%)      14 (2.2%)
graduates and   trained) of researchers  Publications  4 (1.5%)      3 (0.5%)
generate and    and research groups    P   io4
transfer high   increase by 50 %       Publications
quality and                           (O/0)
more relevant                          Textbooks (%)
research.                              Patents (%)
Firms           PDO Indicator 2:
productively    Pipeline of science,   S&E as % of     18,401 (22%)  20,249 (22.4%)  33%
utilize more   technology, and         Univ
trained human   engineering            enrolments (%)  91 (0.1%)     51(0.1%)
resources and   undergraduates and     Doctoral (%)    5,155 (6,2%)  5,044 (5.6%)
more            postgraduates increases  Masters (%)   78,310        85,301 (94.3%)
technology      by 50% in key          Bachelors (%)   (93.7%)
(generated      disciplines
and/or
transferred).   PDO Indicator 3: Firms
active in technology   Managed by      43            n/a            53.7
development/evaluation  S&E graduates
employ 25% more S&T    (%)
talent and enhance
technology use         Employing S&E   10            n/a             12.5
graduates
(including
interns) (%)
PDO Indicator 4:
Survey of clients shows  UNCST
Publications in internationally referred journals
2 Publications in internationally non-referred journals
Publications in national referred journals
Publications in non-referred/non-academic journals
1


﻿that UNCST and UIRI
provide effective      Knowledge of    76.3         98.0           Increased
services               UNCST (%)                                   efficiency
and
Contribution to  40.0        73.0            effectiveness
STI                                          in service
development                                  delivery
(%)
Response to     36.3         78.0
stakeholder
needs (%)
UIRI
Knowledge of
UIRI (%)        65.7          68.0
Response to
stakeholder     34.2         58.0
needs (%)
PDO Indicator 5: More
Ugandan A-level        Interested in                               Increased
students plan careers in  S&E subjects  86.0        65.3           positive
S&T fields, and positive  (%)                                      impressions
impressions of careers
in science and
technology increase    Perform best in  53.0        25.2
S&E subjects
(%)
Inttedlate     ProjectaVO  ome       jeeripeo      sasenne       M$tViet 4k1%e
Outcomes      Infithcato6 "')                    .1~if
Intermediate   Indicator Al: MSI      TC meetings     4             6              8
Result A:      Technical Committee                                                 10 La(gaef)
2


﻿MSI Funding      seated; call for
Facility         proposals issued        TC supervision    n/a            1               5
established,                              visits                                          (projection)
grantees
selected         Indicator A2: Ratio of   Call for         1             2
through          applicants to fundable  proposals                                        3
transparent,     proposals 3:1 or greater
merited based    for Windows A & B
competition.                             Applicants        163           125
69
Fundable         12             15
Indicator A3: 10% of     proposals                                       12
top 50 technologically-
active firms in the      Ratio of         13:1          8:1
process of establishing  applicants to                                   6:1
internship programs and  fundable
participating in the     proposals
Technology Platforms
Indicator A4: UIR1
completes service       Internship        -             -
demand assessment        programs &                                      1
Technology       1              5
platforms (%)    (10%)          (50%)           5
(50%)
10 (target)
UIRI's service
demand                          -
assessment                                      -
Intermediate    Indicator B:            Progress on      n/a            76%              80%
Result B:        Assessment of research  research and                                     (target)
Senior           progress by independent  training goals
Research         visiting teams reveals   (%)
Teams (SRTs)     research and training
and Research     goals on track in 80% of  Topics for      30            61               90
Teams (RTs)      SRTs and RTs.           postgraduate                                    (projection)
fully staffed,   Postgraduate theses     thesis (no.)
equipped and     topics identified
operational;    Indicator B2: New
undergraduate    Undergraduate
programs         programs admitting
admitting        students for full-time  Operational new   2             3                4
students;        study; Upgraded         undergraduate     (3306)        (50%)            (67%)
Technology       undergraduate programs  programs                                         6 (project
Platform         expand enrollment and                                                   ltagef)
activities lead  implement revised
to transfer of   curricula               Increased         2             4                6
specific         Indicator B3:           enrollment in     (22%)         (44%)            (67%)
technologies     Teclnology Platform     upgraded
and to follow    activities lead to      undergraduate                                    faroec
on research by   acquisition of new      programs
3


﻿firms and        technology in some
partners.        participating firms-
Technology Platforms
result in increases in  New &             1             5
cooperative research. 15%  emerging
of basic science and
engineering students    technologies                                     5
participating in internship               10%           50%
programs                 Increased
cooperative                                     50%
research (%)                                    At least 70%
-              -               (project
Students                                        target)
participating in
internships                                     20
programs
Intermediate    Indicator Cl:
Result C:        Publications, patent    Long-term        -              0               At least 80%
Research         applications, and       impact (%)
results leading  postgraduate theses in
to planned       draft, submission dates
publications;   identified
students         Indicator C2: New
progressing      program enrollment at
towards          70% of capacity;        New program      30%            56%             82%
undergraduate   independent assessment   enrollment at                                   (projection)
and              rates curricula at      70% of capacity
postgraduate     internationally-
degrees; firms   acceptable levels of    independent      -                              Independent
demonstrate      quality                 assessment rates                                assessment
greater                                  curricula at                                    rates at 80%
technology use   Indicator C3: Cost-     internationally-                                quality level
as a result of   effectiveness of        acceptable
participation in  acquired               levels of quality
the MSI; firms   technologies/new
hire interns     processes and products
upon             is measured via         Long-term
graduation.      increases in revenue;   impact           -              -
15% of internship
participants receive
employment offers from
participating firms upon
graduation.
Indicator C4: UIRI
generating fees for
technological services
offered to firms
4


﻿「갸


﻿
