Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 16061
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3068 - YU)
October 22, 1996
Energy, Environment and Transport Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
Exchange US$1.00 = 13.8 Din (1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
PCN         -           Project Completion Note
RTE         -           Railway Transport Enterprise
SFRY       -            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3068 - YU)
This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) on Former Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia - Seventh Railway Project (Loan 3068 - YU). It was prepared by Peter
Parker and reviewed by Messrs. Christian Duvigneau, Acting Chief (EC2ET) and Franz
Kaps, Acting Director (EC2DR).
This Note is in lieu of an Implementation Completion Report because the loans were
lapsed prior to effectiveness. It is based on internal Bank memoranda, supervision reports
and direct knowledge of the project.
A. Background. Objectives and Description
1.          The Seventh Railway Project was appraised April 26, 1989 with a view to
supporting the ongoing economic reform program of the former Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (SFRY). The Project was an integral part of the Bank's development
strategy for the transport sector, focusing on improving the efficiency and financial position
of some of the largest public enterprises in the country. Key objectives of the Project were
to support the new momentum for reform within the railway sector, reduce operating costs
and increase operating efficiency, assist the railways to compete more effectively for traffic,
increase locomotive availability and improve the railways' financial position.
2.           The Loans were granted to four Railway Transport Enterprises (RTEs) with
the guarantee of the SFRY as follows: Belgrade - $59 million, Ljubljana - $31.9 million,
Novi Sad - $14.6 million, and Zagreb - $32.5 million. The project comprised the
investment plans of the four RTEs, which operated 85% of the country's main trunk line.
The Project was estimated to cost $907.1 million of which $138 million would be financed
by the Bank loans under the Project, $7.0 million from the Sixth Railway Project, $626.4
million from local sources and $135.7 million in anticipated co-financing. The Bank loans
were to cover the foreign exchange components of selected high priority investments -
mainly materials and equipment, and the cost of technical assistance and training
3.           The investment plans included track renewal, reconstruction of line sections,
improvement of stations and junctions, change of the electric system on a line section,
modernization of signaling and telecommunications equipment, installation of an
information system, provision of traction and rolling stock, track maintenance equipment,
locomotive spare parts and technical assistance. The investment plans were estimated to be
sound at the time; in particular, each major investment item was estimated to have an
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othenise be disclosed WiLhout World Bank authorization.



economic return grater than 12%, to be covered by a satisfactory financing plan, and was
within the implementation capability of the concerned RTE. A Project Action Plan was
agreed at Negotiations covering specific measures for improving the productivity and
efficiency of the existing railway system.
C. Major Factors
4.           The four Loans were approved on May 23, 1989 and the loan documents
were signed on November 13, 1990. The delay in signature of the Loan documents was due
primarily to a reorganization of the banking system which made it difficult to obtain local
bank guarantees, a change in the law on railway subsidies, and the reorganization of the
railways in Serbia. Due primarily to delays resulting from the deteriorating political
situation, the terminal dates of effectiveness were extended twice to February 28, 1992.
5.           Rail freight traffic fell about 20% in Slovenia and 40% throughout SFRY
between its peak in the mid-1980s and the first half of 1991. Rail passenger traffic fell 40-
50% during the same period. Traffic then fell even more sharply following the approach
and the start of war. Partly as a result, the RTEs' financial performance deteriorated. During
the first nine months of 1991, RTEs Belgrade (including Novi Sad) and Zagreb achieved
operating ratios excluding compensation of 180 and 217 respectively, while RTE Ljubljana
achieved an operating ratio of 182 in 1990. This compares with appraisal targets of 110 (
RTE Ljubljana 98) from 1991 onwards. The RTEs submitted action plans to improve their
financial performance before the outbreak of the war, which were satisfactory in the case of
RTE Ljubljana, incomplete in the case RTE Zagreb, and unsatisfactory in the case of RTE
Belgrade.
6.           The Bank then concluded that the objectives of the project could not be
achieved:
* A principal objective was to assist the railways to compete for international
traffic by making coordinated investments and operating improvements on
the main trunk line, and by extending a common rail operating infornation
system throughout SFRY. The breakup of the country made it difficult to
achieve this technological unification.
*  A second objective was to improve the railways financial performance. The
RTEs financial performance continued to deteriorate, the ability to generate
counterpart funds became doubtful, and the situation was not expected to
improve soon.
7.           The Bank wrote to the Borrowers on February 28, 1992, noting that in the
immediate future the Railways would need to concentrate on organizing their traffic
interchanges and collaboration on an international basis, establish their new organizational
structures, repair war damage and survive financially. The Bank expressed its readiness to



help the railways in this endeavor, but pointed out that it would be entirely different from
the one appraised under the Seventh Railway Project, and called for a fresh start. The letter
then stated that in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, therefore, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for the Seventh Railway Project
had lapsed as of February 28, 1992. The borrowers were not required to pay commitment
charges on their Loans.
C. Lessons Learned
8.           The outbreak of the war, and consequent inability to achieve project
objectives, could not have been anticipated at the time of project approval.
nl:\pp\vug\2rail icn.doc









I.!
00
CU- ,:
U                    c
Il r..c
r                    C..
L                C 
O.i 
C' 2-



