Docunnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFmaCiAL USE ONLY
Rqeet No.835 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1152-ZR)
FEBRUARY 7, 1990
._
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
Mles docu_mnt has a restricted  stribuion and may be sed by reipients only In the performance of
tbir offki duties. Its oontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
ABBREVIATIONS
CODAIK   -   Compagnie de D6veloppement Agripastorale Integr; de
Kikwit (Kwango-Kwily Integrated Agricultural
Development Program)
FAO       - United Nations Food and Agricultural Orgmnization
GTZ       -  Geselachaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeft (German
Technical Assistance Agency)
IDA       -  International Development Association
INADE     - African Institute for Economic and Social Development
NGO       -  Non-governmental Organization
OED       -  Operations Evaluation Department
PAI       -  Perimetres d'Action Intensive
(Areas of Concentration)
PCR       - Project Completion Report
PLZ       -  Plantations Lever au Zaire
(Lever Plantations in Zaire)
PRONAM    -  Programme National de Manioc
(National Manioc Program)
PVO       -  Private Voluntary Organizations
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
At appraisal average         =   US$1 - Zaire 2
At establishment of CODAIK  =  US$1 - Zaire 5.75
Intervening years average   -   US$1 - Zaire 33
Completion year Average      -  US$1 - Zaire 60
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FM OFF7CIAL U GMLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wa0mmton. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Opatmm £VuAtuu
February 7, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVF nIRECTORS AND THR PRESInPNT
StTBJECT:  Project Completion Report on 7aire Kwango-Kwilu Technical
Assistance Project (credit 1152-7R)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report oa Zaire - Kvango-Kwilu Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1152-ZR)"prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Fvaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a resuicd  disuibutin and may be _d by nxPsts onl  the PefonnaoO
of their offcial duties, ts content may not othwwise be dkimoed withot Wodd Bank auw lbwuL



*   ' 4 AL  ,
ZAIRE
XWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1152-ZR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Preace..................  ......................         i
Bssic Data Sheet .....................                              Lii
Evaluation Summary    ............. .   vi
I.  Background... .        1................. ...                     1
II.  Project Objectives and Desription...p..i........o...              2
III.  Project Design and Organization-ooo..................             2
IV.  Project Implementation..o ... ... 9..o. . . . .. .o. ..o    .     4
V.  Project Resls..            s u...l               ts000*....   ..  ..  7
VI.  Proi1 t Sustainability ........                                   9
VII.  Performance of Participants..         ........    ..........    9
VIII.  Follow-up Action ..O..... 00*0000**6................ ....... 11
Appendix I:   Financial Statements of CODAI.................   12
Appendix II:  Statistical Annexes ..............................   14
MAP:      IBRD 14469R
This document has a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



-i -
ZAIRE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 1152-ZR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kwango-Kwilu
Technical Assistance Project in Zaire, for which Credit 1152-ZR in the
amount of US$2.6 million was approved on February 26, 1981. The Credit was
closed on June 30, 1986, three years behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was on July 10, 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional Office. It is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and cofinancier, German Technical
Assistance Agency (GTZ), for comments but no comments were received.



-  i -                                                h
ZAIRE
XWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1152-ZR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Project Identity
Project name   Kwango Kwilu Technical Assistance Project
Credit number Cr. 1152 ZR
RVP Unit       AF3AG, South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Sector         Agriculture
Subsector      Rural Development
Key Prolect Data
Item                         Appraisal                Actual
Expectation            Situation                 !
Total cost (US$ mm)                     5.6                   5.6
Credit amount (US$ mm)                  2.6                   2.6
Disbursed (US$ mm)                      2.6                    2.6
Date project completed                6130/83               6/30186
Date pbyellcel C mnnente            phyvnie1 com_onents not completed
completed
Project time overrun                                           100X
Financial Performance                                         poor
Institutional Performance                                     2OQr
Other Prolect Data
Item                        Original       Revision      Actual
Plan
First mention in files                                         7/14/77
Government Application                                         Nov. 78
Appraisal                                                      Oct. 79
Negotiations                                                    2/24/81
Board Approval                                                 2126/81
Signing Date                                                   7/23181
Date of effectiveness                                           7/07/82
Closing Date                          6/30183       6/30/86    6/30186
Last disbursement                                               7110187
Total staff inputs in weeks                                      154.2
Number of supervisions                                             7
Borrower              Government of Zaire
Executing agency    CODAIK (Compagnie d  Developpement Agro-
Pastora-e Integre de Kikwit)



- Il -
CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
A. Disburs-emnts ppr ynar
(UsS million)
1061  102    1_ 3  10 L984       I1S i             0e 987 S/
(Credit 1162-ZR)
Cumulative estimate       0.1   1.0      2.2      2.6 2/   2.6       2.6    2.6
Total Actual               .0   0.28    0.7       1. 8     2.84      2.64   2.66
Actual an U of est!mate    .0  23.0    81.0      48.0     60.7      98.0  100.0
Total disbursed            .0   9.0    18.8      26.7     87.7    90.0  100.0
(PPF P 417-ZR) 4/     1987/88
Cumulative estImate      0.6
Totai actual             0.19
Actual as X of estimate   46.6
1   The elosing date war twice revised, see pars 8.08.
4 The credit amounted to 2.4 million SDR, which was at appraisal estimated at ^.9 dollars
S/  Lst payment made July 10, 1987. 
t/ The PPF has been approved March 1981. The disbursements under the PPF are mentioned,
because some costs directly related to the pilot project have been financed by this PPF,
such as preparation of follow-up project, final payments of equipment with delayed
delivery. After concellation of the follow-up project, the disbursed amount will be
repaid over a five year period.
B. Disbursements per category.
The following disbursements were miade:
Catesory                               Estimate   Revised    Actual
Estimate
*..;**.*.thousand SDR9e. . .
1.  Experts services                            680         750          666
2.  Vehicles, equipment CODAIK 1)                380        850        1,224
3.  Civil works CODAIK                           240         50           34
4.  Construc:ion Aquaculture Center              110          0            0
5.  Studies follow-up project                    100        250           62
6.  Studies viability Ec. Recovery Fund    25                25            0
7.  Consultant fees/equipment part 2)            250        298          287
8.  Refunding PPF 152                            250        127          127
9.  Unallocated                                  365         50            0
-------------------------------------.--------------------------------
Total                                     2,400      2,400        2,400
1) Trucks, tractors and implements, jeeps, motorcycles, radio phonie and
office equipment.
2) For the ministry of planning. Financing of Mr. Lulaney, consultant, and
ICTAD experts; including car and equipment.



- iv -
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
STAFF IrVT
fiat ffweek% 
PY            74  767 8 77  77  78   79 80   81   82   83   84   85   86  87 88   Total
P.rapprleals    I1                      ---                                               -a-
Appreissl      1.10                     .1 24.8  --                          - -          25.9
N.tlatlon      1.0 -      -                 2.8  8.8  -              -   -                 7.1
Supervision    -                                  1.6 24.1 48.1 31.1  11.4   7.4 .7      119.4
Other          1.1-  -  -   -   -   -        .2  -      .6  -     .,    -    -  -  -       1.7
…--- -------…-- -- ------- ---- -------------- --------------- -
TOTAL          8.2 -  -  -   -   -    .1 27.8  6.4 24.6 43.1 31.1  11.4  7.4  , -   154.2
-                     -… --_l
Missions.
Stage of
Project   Month/   Nr. of   Days in   Expertise   Performance    Types of
Cycle     Year    Persons   Field   Represented    Ratinz            Problems
Through Appraisai
1.      07/77       2         3      EC, Agr         n.a.        Pre-Ident.
2.      10/77       2         2      EC, LV          n.a             It
3.      10/78       1         7      EC              n.a.      Preparation
4.      11/78       4        18      EC, Agr, LV    n.a.         Appraisal
PM, GTZ
5.      10179       1         5      EC              n.a.        Post-Appr.
Aypraisal through Board Approval,
1.      02/81       1         3      EC              n.a.
Board Approval through Effectiveness
1.      11181       2         9      EC                2       PF, Recr.
wmmminnin=ea3_    a_=                            _-=__um =In=mm_S mt___C  mlm        mm__m



-V-
Supervision
1.      05/82      2        2       EC, LO           2      PF, hecr.PA
2.      10/82      4        15      EC, PA, FA,      2      PS, PM, FM
LO                      IM.
3.      05/83      4        9       FA, EC           2      PM, IM.
Repr. GTZ
4.*    /1183       3        12      FA, Agr.         2      PM, FM, TC
Repr. GTZ
5.      11/84      2        11      FA, MS           2      PC, PF, PM
Repr. GTZ               ME
6.**    04/85      1        3       Agr.             -      Follow-up
mission
7.      11/86      2        4       EC, Agr.         2      PM, PF.
* This mid-term review mission proposed extension closing date to 6130/84
** Mission propoaed extension closing date to 6/30186
Preparation and appraisal follow-up project
1.      06/85      6       26      Agr, LV, EC       -      Pre-appr.
CE
2.      09185      2        3      Agr. EC           -     Preparation
Institution
Reform
3.      11/85      3        10     Agr, EC           -     Evaluation
preparation
progress
4.      03/86      5        17     Agr, LV, EC       -     Appraisal
5.      05/86      1        10     Agr, PH                 Post appr.
KEYS: Expertise: FA (fin.analyst), Agr. (agriculturist), Recr. (Staff and
consultant recruitment), EC (Economist)
MS (man.specialist),LO (loan officer) LV (livestock)
Status:     1 (problem free), 2 (minor or manageable problems),
3 (major proltlems)
Type of    PM (proj.management) PF (proj.funding) PS (proj.scope)
problems: FM (fin.management)  ME (mon.& eval.)  ID  (implementation)
TP (techn.performance) PA (proj. administration)
Co-financier GTZ



- vi -
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
KWAMGO-ExIILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
_1152-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMhR!
Objectlve
1.         After the hihly regulatory agricultural policies of the
seventies, Government followed in the eighties a path of price
liberalization, decentralization and greater partielpation of the private
sector in the economy. In line with the new policies the Project. alming to
increase agricultural productivity, and Improve agricultural services in the
Kwango and Kwilu sub-regions of the Bandundu province, sought participation
of the private sector by *stablishing a mixed capital development company,
the Compagnie de Dveloppeument Agripastoral Integre de Kikwit (CODAIK). An
Important objective in the company was to develop its own reaource e&rning
activities, so as to become less dependant on undependable Government
fundlng. The company was established in May 1982, with a share capital of
2.5 million Zaire (US$440,000). Forty percent was owned by Government and
sixty percent by thirty private shareholders. The statutes gave the company
the status of Development Authority in the region with a broad mandate for
agricultural development. It received external financial support from IDA
and the Pederal German Oovemret.
Implications
ple e_tatlotift of the progrn was delayed dne to staff ig
problems. The cattle ranch and aquaculture center were not impllmented.
Other activities (credit, marketing and research) were reduced or stopped,
because CODAIK was not equipped to further develop them. The Project
achieved its best results in carrying, out those activities that would
normally have been carried out by a Government managed project authority: it
worked out and succesfully introduced a cassava cultivation package; It laid
the basis for Improved extension systems; and it proved that manual road
maintenance could be satisfactorily carried out, if properly organized and
controlled.
Results and Pactors Affecting
3.         The Project'e maWI  failglre Wm to prove that in the region a
mixed capital development company could be mounted, that could succeafully
develop revenue earning activities. First, both revenue earning and non-
revenue earting public activities were Included in CODAIK's mandate, but
without clear separation as to their funding; most of CODAIK's funding was
made available as a loan, thus putting the company on a weak financial
basis. Also, part of the revenue earning marketing activities CODAIRK did
carry out, brought it into conflict with private traders, complaining about
unfair competition. Furthermore, the decision making process was ambiguous,
leading to serious internal tensions. Finally, CODAIK's shareholders were
sharply devided between those supporting CODAIK's development role and those
seeking to obtain short-term benefits from the company in their privileged
position as shareholder.
4.         Other factors also played a role in the failure of CODAIK.  The
quality of consultant service. we mited and In the end proved to be



- vi-
disappointing, causing Implementation delays, weakening the company's
effectiveness and contributing to internal tensions. German bilateral aid,
which provided technica'. assistance under a co-financing agreement with the
project, had its doubts on the concept of a mixed-capital development
company and felt that too much eazention was given to CODAIK's institutional
development and capability to raise its own fumds, at the cost of attending
to small farmer needs. Finally, lack of continsuity in supervising staff and
of a decisive mid-term evaluation reduced the Bank's effectiveness in its
effort to solve institutional problems.
Lessons learned and Sustalnability
5.         The lessons learned from thLis project are that:
- the idea of inviting private interests to participate in rural
development is a valid one, but very complex and time consuming, in
particular in the situation of economic crisis that prevailed in Zaire
during project implementation.
- when establishing a development company, a clear separation
needs to be made between revenue earning and non-revenue earning activities.
This distinction is essential to determine how the company should be funded
and what will be the responsibilities placed on the company and its daily
managenent.
- it is not sufficient to promote the idea of a development
company carrying out revenue earning actvities as a means to generate
funding; at least some of these activities need to be well defined,
evaluated and judged attractive at the start of implementation for the
company to have a chance of being succesful. Such a company should have a
less rigid juridical structure, promote new private enterprises in the area
through temporary or minority participation and provide services on a
strictly contractual and commercial basis.
- the relative success of the agricultural extension, animal
husbindry and rural roads maintenance components have laid a baiis for
follow-up action. However, their implementation should be sought through
reinforcement of the local government services. Th.a vet-up of a separate
project authority to carry out these functions wiL be unsustainable in the
long term, and would lead to serious competition for scarce resources.
- more attention needs to be paid during project design process
to the possibility of contracting-out specific activities. In the Zairian
context, this is especially important because of the lack of management
capabilities in the government services and the need to make use of existing
expertise in already established organisations in the area. In the project
context thl's could have led to increased cost recovery, and reduced cost to
Government.



ZAIRE
KWANCO.KWILU TECV1NICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1152-ZR)
PROJECT COMPLETION RE-POIT
I.  BACKGROUND
1.01          Sector development obiectives.  In the 1970's Government had
set up various specialized development organisations for food, industrial
and export crops. Their functions varied, and included agricultural
services, and input distribution. Their performance remained below
expectation, due to a lack of funds and technical capability. In addition
Government sought to regulate prices of many agricultural commodities.
These measures had generally a negative impact on production and marketing.
The Government dissolved several of these organisations and followed since
1980 a path of price liberalization, greater participation of the private
sector in and deceatralisation of development activities. It also set out
to formulate overall production targets in its First Agricultural Recovery
Plan (82-84). The experience in this plan laid the basis for the five year
plan development (86-90), which maintained the same agricultural ol'jectives.
1.02         Policy context.  The Government repeatedly reaffirmed the
priority of agriculture within the framework of the overall economic
planning. Major areas of action were: improving agricultural services and
transportation in rural areast increasing agricultural productivity; price
liberalisation and reviewing marketing policies. Given the limited capacity
of the public sector to revive the agricultural sector and in order to
stimulate the participation of the private sector in the economic recovery
effort, Government established in 1978 an Economic Recovery Fund. The Fund
was to be used to finance priority development projects, engaged in a
productive activity. Private enterprises could implemeant such projects on
their own or sub-contract them tc oths- entities, under implementation
agreements with the Government's Executi7  Council.  Under the arrangements
of the recent (1987) Structural Ajustment Credit the recovery fund has been
dissolved, with a view to improve the anagement of the national budget.
1.03          Prolect links to sector obiectives and policies.  The project
was the result of an extended dialogue with Government in the 1970's about
possible Bank support for agricultural development projects. The discussion
on a Bandundu project started in 1974, considering a possible livestock
project. Later on in 1977 Government requested the Bank to evalv te a
regional development project with broader objectives, aiming at increased
food production; strengthening agricultural extension methods and
developping better marketing services, including road improvement. At
appraisal in 1979 the project sought, in line with Government policies, to
increase participation of the private sector in rural development, by
establishing a mixed capital development company, and also to rely on the
Economic Recovery Fund for financing of specifis activities. The Credit
became effective in July 1982, and the Company was established in May 1982,
with a capital of Z. 2.5 million (about US$ 440,000). Government owned 402
of the shares, and 60Z was owned by private shareholders, consisting of
i^0's, commercial companies or individuals active in the region.



II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION.
2.01          Government original project proposals for a mixed farming
project and a cattle ranch project were not accepted by the Bank. Instead,
the Bank proposed, and Government ac,epted, to prepare a pilot project
combining the objectives of the two proposals. The Bank did not press for
further preparation work but decided to send a preparation/appraisal mission
to work out the pilot project, in collaboration with Government and donors.
2.02          The Project was conceived as a pilot project, constituting an
experimental phase of a long-term integrated agricultural and livestock
development program, to be implemented over a 15-20 year period through
various follow-up projects. The program aimed to: (1) develop the production
potential of the Kwango-Kwilu sub-regions of Bardundu province; (2) improve
the standard of living of their population; (3) improve the food supply to
its main consumption market, Kinshasa; and (4) increase food production in
Zaire in order to save the country's scarce foreign exchange by replacing
imports of staple food by local production. The program's concept was
essentially production-oriented; given the limited managerial capability
available locally, it was meant to remain simple. Initially, the program
was to be limited to crop, livestock and aquaculture development in three
zones of Rw_.lu, and it would be gradually extended to other zones in Kwilu
and Kwango.
2.03          The principal objective if the innovative Pilot Project was to
establish and develop an institutional and managerial environment in which
the integrated program for the long term agricultural development of the
Kwamgo and Kwilu sub-regions could operate. The project concept was that of
a small pilot effort to test a technical package and an implementation
strategy for future follow-up projects, within the broad development
program. The institutional arrangements tested would also provide experience
that would assist In the design of projects elsewhere in Zaire.
2.04          The project's six main components weret (1) the establishment
of a development authority for the Kwango-Kwilu sub-regions; (2) technical
assistance for project design and management; (3) a training and extension
system for the zones where the project would be active; (4) development of a
cattle breeding ranch and an aquaculture center; (5) establishment of
supporting services and infrastructure for marketing and agricultural
credit; and (6) applied research and studies for the project area. It also
included funds to finance technical assistance to the Ministry of Planning
and to study the viability of the Economic Recovery Fund. These provisions
amounted to about 102 of the total credit.
III. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
3.01          The project essentially aimed from the outset at two major
goals: (a) to test technical agricultural packages and plan for possible
follow-up efforts; and (b) to test and establish a development organization
which by bringing in p ivate capital would be oriented more towards revenue
earning activities, this generating substantially to its own funds. The
pilot effort represented a significant departure from the traditional



institutional approach to rural development, which was to set up Governement
managed and staffed development authorities. By encouraging the involvement
of NGO's and the private sector in the area, it aimed to Improve the
prospects for a self-sustaining development process. This was particularly
important, since the region as well as the country in general faced ever
dwindling public funds for agricultural services.
3.02          The project was conceived in two steps: first, to establish a
mixed capital company and second, for the company to undertake its own
program of activities as well as to coordinate ongoing rural development
activities in the project area.  The company created was CODAIK (Compagnie
de Developpement Agri-Pastoral Integre de Kikwit). Its statutes were
approved in 1982, after Bank review. The company would have eight board
directors, with a three year term, with three members appointed by
Government, and four by the private shareholders.  The General Manager, the
eighth member, would be elected by the board upon Government's
recommendation. The social objectives of CODAIK were the development of
agriculture, in the widest sense, and the planning and coordLnation of all
agro-pastoral activities in the Kwango-Kwilu area as the recognized regional
development authority. CODAIK could undertake marketing, agricultural
credit, and agricultural services.
3.03          The company's sharecapital of Z. 2,5 million was owned 402 by
Government and 60Z by private shareholders. The first 30 groups of
individuals able to invest each Z. 50,000 or US$ 8,800 became the private
shareholders. Despite this arbitrary procedure, these shareholders
represented fairly the sub-regions, including the private sector, political
representatives and development agencies. The expectation that more
shareholders would be attracted was not realized, and instead interest
groups with different views on CODAIK's role emerged within the small group
of private shareholders, leading to delays in decision making and
interference in day-to-day management.
3.04          The corporate structure gave Government a dominant role,
leading to the perception that the project was basically a traditional
government project. The board of directors had wide executive
responsibilities, which led to frequent interference in management. The
statutes attributed responsibilities for day-to-day management both to the
general director and to the management committee, leading to internal
tensions. While the SAR paid attention to many organizational points,
including the formation of company departments and divisions as well as
zonal offices, it did not elaborate on decision making processes and the
potential or possible earning capacity of a mixed-capital development
company.
3.05          CODAIK concluded in 1982 a Subsidiary Lcan Agreement with the
Executive Council of Government. The proceeds of the credit would be
partially granted (for financing expert services and studies) and partially
allocated as payment of Government's shares in CODAIK. The proceeds of the
credit to finance investments and Government's counterpart funds for
CODAIK's activities would be provided as a loan, carrying a 62 interest
rate, a 5 year grace period and a 15 year repayment period.  Repayment of



- 4 -
interest and principal would only take place if and when CODAIK would make a
profit. CODAIK also received budgettary support. However, it was not clear
what activities would remain a public responsalility, to be financed by non-
repayable counterpart or budgettary funds, ane what would constitute a
private activity, to be financed by CODAIK's own funds or by loan funds.
kl0so the different activities were not properly reflected in CODAIK's
accounting system. As a result Government financed sometimes certain
private activities (e.g. on the seedfarm) and CODAIK included expenses for
public services (e.g. on extension) in the loan, repayable to Governement.
3.06          The project expectations for institution building were based
on the assumption that: (a) participation of shareholders influential in the
region would lead to further participation by the private sector; (b)
private shareholders would bring about efficient operation of CODAIK; and
(c) technical assistance would provide the necessary managerial capability.
These expectations were not realised, because shareholders had different
perceptions on the role of a development company, important shareholders
(e.g. PLZ) retracted before project effectiveness and hiring of competent
consultants was delayed.
3.07          CODAIK was asked to develop its own work program as well as
coordinate all ongoing development antivities in the region, since it was
conceived as the Regional Development Authority in the region. Its
coordinating efforts caused much controversy in the area, because it lacked
as a recently established company the credibilty for such an authority. In
addition, less attention was given during implementation to the pilot nature
of the institution bu.tilding effort and the functioning of CODAIK as a
private development company. CODAIK in fact operated as a classical
integrated rural development project, depending on public funding.
3.08          In retrospect, the assumption that a mixed-capital development
company by its very creation would operate as a private company led to a
focus on technical matters and a declining control of institutional matters.
As a result, support to create a minimal earning capacity for CODAIK
remained weak, and hence CODAIK became increasingly dependant on Government
funding, contrary to the original project objective (para 3.01-3.02).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01          Two components were not implemented through the project: the
development of a cattle breeding ranch and an aquaculture center. The
selected cattle ranch was privatised early on, and transfered to a private
entity, which discontinued cattle breeding activities. Other alternatives
were not available, due to the lack of funds and expertise. This
development did not affect project results, because a breeding ranch without
a complementary distribution program of livestock to small farmers would not
have had much effect. The main development in aquaculture was carried out
by the USAID supported 'Projet de Pisciculture Familiale".
4.02          Components with limited implementation were: Input suDplY,
credit and marketina.  The project initiated cash sales of agricultural
tools and veterinary products, at competitive prices. The major clients



were NGO's, while private traders purchased inputs to stock their up-country
stores. The project thus provided the foreign exchange to maintain the
supply of essential inputs. Sales were supposed to be made at a profit, but
store administration and cost accounting were weak. CODAIK developed a
seedfarm but this effort developed unsatisfactory and seed cost calculations
remained incorrect. Limlted credits (about Z. 100,000 in total) were given
to stock inltial input supplies at the collectivity level, and to establish
*        fish ponds.  In response to a critical need for access to foreign exchange,
a new line of credit was establlshed for the purchase of trucks. This credit
was granted at the prevaillng interest rate with the foreign exchange risk
borne by the borrower.  Six (repaid) loans were made to CODAIK's
shareholders. Finally, CODAIKRs credit activities were stopped, because
CODAIK was not equipped to develop and control such activities.
4.03          The marketing operation of CODAIK included both the purchase
of rice and maize from farmers living in a 50 km radius of Kikwit, as well
as the sale of cassava and cereals from CODAIK's seed multiplication farm.
The lack of buyers in areas where farmers increased their production as a
result of extension efforts were an important reason for CODAIK to expand
its marketing activities (50-100 tons at the end of the project period).
However, its marketing activities in easily accessible areas brought them in
direct competition with private traders and CODAIK shareholders, and proved
contentious. While competition was welcomed, the traders of the region
believed that CODAIK had certain advantages, given its project financing and
close contact with farmers through extension activities. Complaints about
below-cost pricing were not easy to refute. CODAIK's cost calculations were
weak and some costs, normally considered marketing costs, were charged to
CODA-^' ' general costs. While the concept of establishing and implementing
a marketing program was correct, only a few tests were made (e.g. creating
village markets and testing collection systems). A comprehensive program
proved in the end to be beyond CODAIK's capability. CODAIK should have
tested first its viability as a private trader, before accepting the task of
developping a regional marketing program.
4.04          The g2vlied research component was hardly implemented.  The
few experiments that were carried out did not produce lasting results. Most
applied research was carried out under PRONAM (Programme National de Manioc)
and during extension activities. The project did cooperate with FAOIUNDP ln
publishing in 1984 the bi-lingual extension booklet 'Techniques Agricoles
Ameliorees pour le Kwango-Kwilu", and with INADES (African Institute for
Economic and Social Development) a booklet for livestock extension to the
small farmers :'eleveur et son betail".
4.05          The areas with more success were asricultural extension and
animal husbandry, as well as road maintenance. Consultant support has been
effective in this area. The following activities in these areas were
carried out:
a. In cooperatior. with an ongoing FAO Project and agronomists
of PRONAM the africultural extension division of CODAIK developped, tested
and introduced a cassava cultivation package and a system to supply improved
cuttings to farmers in selected PAI's (Perimetres d'Action Intensive). In



- 6 -
*ach PAI villag  a farmer wa assigned part of a communal field end taught
to plant the new cassava variety, using Improved husbandry techniques; the
rest of the field was planted in the traditional way. At hervest all
farmers retained cuttings of the new veriety to be planted on a wider area
in the next season. Since 80S of farm work is carried out by women, the
system was organized and controlled by elected woman leaders. These also
took charge of follow up actions and demonstration, and thus evolved into
front line extension agents. The system replaced that of compulsory crop
planting. The project won the farmer's confidence, which was absent under
previous extension practice. About 3,000 farmers (men and women,
representing 5-102 of the PAI population) were reached with the cassava
technical package, and yields increased by 50 percent on assisted plots.
b. Livestock extension work started in 1983 by training
additional veterinary staff. Under CODAIK's guidance, 25 corrals were built
and payed for by the farmers and spraying was organized by project-trained
veterinary staff. Groups of 15-20 small livestock farmers were formed, who
elected a farmer in charge of the supply of medical products and mineral
supplements. The project would sell to those elected farmers the necessary
inputs. The livestock test program performed well, and about 2,500 head of
cattle were treated yearly. It also identified the need to include a system
to supply trypanotolerant N'D-a cattle to small farmers as an essential
component in a follow-up development project for the region.
c. CODAIK was designated by the Governor of the region as a
major recipient of road maintenance funds, which were channeled via the
regional administration. By sub-contracting to NGO's and local private
companies, CODAIK maintained roads (about 1,800 km) at lower costs with
better supervision. Although work was severely delayed on several occasions
due to the Government's undependable release of funds, CODAIK managed to
implement the planned programs for manual road maintenance. Its
intervention identified as major follow-up priority actions: the need to
strengthen the coordination of the agencies involved in road maintenance
(Office de Routes, Departmental-, Regional administrations, and private
companies); to sharpen the criteria for selection and identification of
roads to be maintained, and to establish standard contracts.
4.06          CODAIK interpreted its role as coordinator of regional
development activities in a narrow sense: rather than work through existing
organizations involved in development activities, CODAIK concentrated its
efforts on expanding its own activities. CODAIK carried out some surveys on
NGO's and PVO's activities and the socio-economic status of the region, but
they were superficial and did not contain recommendations for action.
CODAIK realized later on that development has to be promoted from the local
level upwards. This led to the strengthening of coordinating committees
(commites de parrainage , where CODAIK and other private and public entities
could discuss local development issues.
4.07          CODAIK's orRanization was implemented as planned, with a
senior management bureau, and departments for administration and finance,
extension and training, commercial actvities and a department for planning
and applied research, each with a director and several divisions as needed



(e.g. livestock division, roads division) headed by a division chief. The
monitoring and planning division never started effectively. Zonal offices
were not established, because the project did not work on a zone-wide basis,
but tested first its programs in selected areas (para 4.05a). The
department directors and the general director formed the management
committee.
4.08          The full staffing of departments was delayed until 1983.  The
organization appeared to be top-heavy, and its staff un-experienced. Some
training was provided by consultants, and training abroad was also given to
administrative staff and one director. The first general manager, who was
an expatriate, was in place in 1982. The experts were line-management
officers, and as a result became involved in the internal frictions, which
developped In CODAIK (para 3.04). Unfortunately, the experience with the
general manager and the planning expert unsatisfactory, which led in 1984 to
their replacement and the eaployment of a Zairian general manager. This
midterm change of command only exacerbated the tension, leading ultimately
to the replacement of another expert in 1987. Focus on personnel matters
reduced the effectiveness of technical activities. While the performance in
general accounting Improved, proper cost accounting was not carried out, and
the quality of auditing became less satisfactory.
4.09          Given the internal difficulties, the construction of CODAIK
offices and housing was postponed. The planning department was expected to
prepare guidelines for the long term development plan of the region (para
2.01) and proposals for follow-up activities. Since its output was
unsatisfactory, CODAIK prepared a preparation report for a follow-up project
with outside assistance early in 1965. The proposed project was appraised
In August, 1?85, but not negotiated, because no agreement could be reached
on solving the major managerial issues, including the selection of the
general director (para 8.02). The Bank decided therefore to exclude the
proposed project from the lending program, and Government considered
thereafter to transform CODAIK into a Government regional development
project.
V. PROJECT RESULTS
5.01          The Project achieved its best results in carrying out those
activities that would normally have been carried out by a project management
unit of a regional development project: it worked out and successfully
introduced a package for cassava cultivation, a basic foodcrop and an
inportant cash crop in the area; it laid the basis for Improved extension in
livestock husbandry, and it proved that manual road maintenance could be
carried if properly organised and controlled (para 4.05 c). CODAIK created a
seedfarm, which operated successfully as a multiplication center for the F-
100 cassava variety. While CODAIK's organization had many deficiencies, it
established after initial problems a good working accounting unit. The
efforts in the areas of input supply, marketing and development coordination
remained inconclusive.
5.02          The Project failed to prove that a mixed-capital development
company could be mounted, that could successfully develop revenue earning



- 8 -
activities and progresbively become less dependent on Government funding.
The development of CODAIK as a mixed-capital corporation suffered from the
start from some inhaerent shortcomings (paras 3.04 and 3.06): first, both
revenue earning and non-revenue earning activities were included in CODAIK's
mandate, but most funding was made available either as a loan or as a
participation in the share capital, and budgetary support was highly
uncertain, thus giving the company a poor financial basis; second, there was
no clear separation of commercial and public activities; and finally the
company statutes attributes the responsabilities for day to day management
both to the general director and the management committee, thus contributing
to increasingly serious management difficulties. Therefore, the development
CODAIK as a financially independent company was handicapped from the
beginning and proved unsustainable in the end.
5.03          The financial statements of 1984 to 1986 (Appendix I) show
increasing deficits, and cash flow problems. CODAIK had to reduce
operations substantially from 1986 onwards, and deficits were financed by
budgetary support and PPF funds, provided for the planned follow-up project
(para 8.02). None of CODAIK activities were financed by The Economic
Recovery Fund. Government funding, remaining the same in nominal terms,
were inadequate to maintain CODAIK's activities under inflationary
conditions. The long-term Government loan of Z. 57.4 million (1986) was,
with CODAIK's board approval, mainly used for public development activities,
but there was no proper contractual basis defining Government's and CODAIK's
responsabilities in carrying out these activities and the accounting of
their costs. Only about Z. 10 million were used for commercial activities.
Governement is considering to make an ex-post evaluation of the amount to be
repaid by CODAIK under the terms of the subsidiary loan agreement (pare 1.18
of the subsidiary Loan agreement). In any case, repayment is unlikely given
CODAIK's poor commercial results.
5.04          Project objectives did not change during Implementation. The
positive results in the extension and road components led to the extension
of the closing date from June 30, 1983 to June 30, 1986, with the objective
to enable uninterrupted transition from the pilot project to the anticipated
follow-up project (pare 4.09, and chapter VIII). The lack of results in
other components (in particular organisation, credit and marketing, and
livestock breeding) should have led to a reorientation of the project during
a mid-term review (para 7.01). The impact of the more successful components
was partially lost during the period of CODAIK's decline since 1986. The
project maintained however the interest of Government and donors in
development of the Bandundu region.
5.05          The Project correctly identified as risks that the project was
highly dependent on Government's commitment to the project and its
mobilization of private sector partners, the coordination of various
branches of Government involved in the project, the enthousiasm of the staff
and most importantly the continuity of the Economic Recovery Fund (pars
1.03). it did not identify the risks involved in creating a new mixed
capital development company nor did it dwell on the difficulties inhaerent
in finding sucessful revenue earning activities. The seriousness of the
institutional problems, experienced during implementation, and the



- 9 -
disappointing results with consultant services could not be foreseen. Under
these eircumstances, the project took an effective course In limiting its
aetivities to specific subjects and areas, leading to results - limited as
they may be - which could be carried forward under follow-up actions, in-
particular concerning cassava cultivation, small farmer livestock raising,
and manual road maintenance.
VI. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
6.01         The extension efforts gave the best results.  The tested
systems (pars 4.05) would need to be adapted under possible follow-up
projects, because the extension cost wero excessively high and
unsustainable, due to a high extension agent/farmer ratio (1140) and high
costs of mobility for extension agents. However, given the success of this
composent and Its acceptance by farmers, a lower cost organisation,
Involving the collectivity and village organisations, could have been
attained if the project had been continued.
6.02         The experience obtained in institutional development was
disappointing. This should not lead to a denunciation of the concept of a
development company. The concept was hardly tested In the Pilot Project,
because it started unprepared, was exposed to unjustified cttside
interference and encountered unexpected staffing problems.
6.03         Whlle the development of a mixed capital development company
w±ulin the project perlod failed, the relative successful components are
expected to receive continued support under other projects e.g. marketing
under a USAID assisted project; agricultural extension under a Bank assisted
pilot extension project; research in a multldonor agrleultural research
project, and road maintenance under a special Government road Improvement
program. Small farmer livestock development (a crucial factor for small
farm development) will be delayed and the coordination of all the ongoing
activities in the region remains weak and inefficient. However, the
sustainabilty of continuing efforts Is not assured, unless the existing
problems of the regional administration can be solved and regional
institutions strengthened.
VII. PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPANTS
7.01         Bank performance. The Bank made a serious effort during
preparation and appraisal to seek an alternative approach to rural
development, because experience with the classical form of integrated rural
development project in Zaire had been la.gely unsuccessful. It also
identified during early supervisions the major institutional problems and
discussed these with Government, leading to a mid-term evaluation mission in
November 1983. However, this mission did not lead to any conclusive action
to solve the problems that had arisen (para 5.04). It was hoped that the
change in general manager would Improve Institutional performance, and
considerable delays in Implementation did not permit firm conclusions on the
technical aspects of the project. Also the lack of continuity in
supervising staff and the focus of attention to technical rather than



_ 10 -
institutional issues affected ultimately the Bank's effectiveness In coping
with the project's problems. The focus on technical questions may have
caused supervision missions to continuously give the project a 02" status.
This qualification contrasted with the opinion of the pro-appraisal and
appraisal missions of the follow-up project, proposing major reforms.
7.02          Borrower performance. The Government had a major impact on
project Implementation and results. Insufficient and unreliable project
funding caused changes and reductions in the annual work programs.
Government also had a dominating role in project management, creating the
general perception that CODAIK was a government agency. In spite of its
Influence, Government reprosentativas in the Board of Directors could not
prevent undue interference by the board in CODAIK's day to day management
and excessive use of time and funds by board meetings. These factors
reduced the efficiency in deploying staff and consultant resources.
7.03          Cofinanciers oerformance. The German Government participated
in the proje-t, through the German Technical Assistance Company (GTZ), by
funding the technical assistance components, including housing, equipment
and recurrent costs for consultants. Requiring an oxecutive role for the
consultants in CODAIK's organization, GTZ became unavoidably involved in
Internal management problems. It also strengthened their doubts on the
concept of a mixed-capital development company, and their feeling that too
much attention was given to CODAIK's capability for raising Its own funds,
at the cost of attending to small farmer needs.
7.04          Relationships between interested parties were not
satisfactory. The Borrower, the outside financiers and the shareholders of
CODAIK had all different expectations of the project and of CODAIK's role in
the project. Government expected CODAIK to generate funds to reduce the
budgetary burden in providing agricultural services. The Bank's main goal
was twofolds to seek revenue generating activities and to make the project
less dependant on irregular public funding, as well as identifying
agricultural development packages. Most shareholders expected short term
profits, through dividends or Indirectly through CODAIK's privileged
services to shareholders. A small group of shareholders did fully support
CODAIK's development role, but they gradually lost influence in CODAIK.
Since CODAIK could only respond to the various expectations in the medium
and long term, it appeared difficult to shape a common view on how to
operate CODAIK during the project period. In addition, the discussions on
institutlonal developments were side-tracked by unsatisfactory performance
of some consultants, and tensions between shareholders.
7.05          The performance of consultant services remained below
expectation. The lack of competence of some experts caused implementation
delays and their replacement contributed to Internal tensions in the company
(para 4.08). The consultants engaged in the extension activities performed
well, but could not extricate themselves, as executive officers, from the
organizational problems of CODAIK. The short term consultants for marketing
and livestock development presented their reports In time. The Impact of
their work was minimal, due to lack of follow-up. The Project Identified
correctly consultant requirements, but the selection of consultants wa on



- 11 -
the whole not successful, causing extra risks under the difficult managerial
circumstances of the Project.
7.06          Proiect documentation.  The credit documents indicated a very
tight schedule for implementation, mid-term review and completion, given the
comprehensive work program included in the project description. As
substantial lmplementation delays occured (paras 4.01-4.03), the midterm
review was inconclusive (par. 7.01). Whlile the credit documents gave the
project the necessary flexibility, guidance for cost-accounting should have
been included, given tho objective to establish a self-sustaining private
company. The statutes of CODAIK helped to shape the Idea of a development
company. Unfortunately, external interests diminished the chances to
gradually improve CODAIK's institutional performance. In hindsight, more
thought to the formulation of the statutes, or their internal regulation,
could have helped to counterbalance such outside influences, in particular
in relation to CODAIK's coordinating role, its management procedures, the
definition of CODAIK's responsabilities in carying out public services and
especially, a better definition and appraisal of its revenue earning
activities. The appraisal report described well the objectives and goals,
but wa short on guidance for the establishment of a maxed-capital
development company and on Indications of criteria for monitoring and
evaluation.
VIII. FOLLOW-UP ACTION
8.01          The borrower did not prepare its own completion report,
because it considered the preparation report of the proposed follow-up
project as an assessment of the results obtained during the pilot period.
The preparation report, prepared by outside consultants, was not
satisfactory, as it made no specific proposals on how to solve the
institutional issues. A pre-appraisal mission of August 1985 required CODAIK
to carry out additional preparation work, in particular on the structure and
organisation of CODAIK, the analysis of potential revenue er-ning activities
and the preparation of the roads component.
8. 12         The improved proposal was appraised in March 1986, and
agreement was reached on the reform of CODAIK: the revision of its statutes,
the capital subscription, and the management and accounting procedures, as
well as the strategy for the implementation of the technical components.
Also, a PPF of US$ 600.000 (P 417 ZR) was approved to finance the project
actvities during the transition periJd between the two projects (section 3
of the annex). Given the experience of the Pilot Project, however, the Bank
insisted on proper execution, before negotiation, of procedures concerning
preparation and approval of the revised statutes, and the selection and
appointment of board members and the companies director. Since by the end
of 1987 no such progress was obtained, and the delay in negotiations would
require reappraisal, the Bank decided to drop the proposed follow-up project
from the lending program. It informed Government of this decision by letter
on January 13, 1988.



APPENDIX I
- 12-                       Page 1 of 2
ZAIREs FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CODAIK
I.   CODAIK SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS  (Z' million)  *)
1986    1985  1984
Fixed Assets                            9.8     11.5    4.0
Current Assets
ESocks                               20.2     16.2    1.5
Debtors                              10.5      9.0    3.4
Advance to Suppliers                 14.4     16.0    7.3
Cash                                  0.2      0.4    7.0
(a) 45.3     41.6   19.2
Current Liabilities                (b) 14.5      7.6    6.4
Net current assets                     30.8     34.0   12.8
Total Assets                           40.6     45.5   16.8
Financed bys
Capital                               2.5      2.5    2.5
Provisions fortaxes                    -        -     0.5
Deficits blfwd                      (21.6)    (7.5)  (1.2)
Subsidies for equipment               2.3      2.4    2.7
Longterm loans                       57.4     48.1   12.3
40.6     45.5   16.8
Current ratios sIb                      3.1      5.5    3.0
II.           CODAIK SUMMARY INCOME & EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS  (Z' million)
Income
Sales of goods                        4.4      3.1    1.5
less costs of sale                    3.0      2.3    0.9
Gross margin                          1.4      0.8    0.6
Government contributions              16.7     18.0   20.4
Interest                              0.2      0.7    0.4
Other income                          2.5      2.4   _1.3
19.',    21.9   22.7
*) First audit prepared for 1984 fiscal year; 1987 and 1988 statements not
available



APPENDIX I
Page 2 of 2
- 13 -
Les Expenditures/charges
Salaries and social charges           9.3      7.2    4.5
Materials and supplies                4.8      4.3    3.3
Transport                             2.1      1.9    1.6
Rent, Electricity & other charges    7.9       7.2    8.4
Other charges                         4.6      4-3    3.0
28.7     24.9   20.8
Interest paid                         3.3      1.6    0.3
Depreciation                          3.8     _.0    1.3
35.8     29.5   22.4
Net Surpulus/(Deficit) for yr.        (14.9)    (7.6)   0.3



APPENDIX II
- 14-                      Pae1Of9
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Lo the
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANGO KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1. RELATED BANK CREDITS
The following projects are related to rural development in Zaire:
Year
Title            Purpose        approved  Status      Comments
1.  PMKO Maize       Increase maize    1980        3     Severe management
Cr. 1040 ZR      production and                      and procurement
rural dev.                         problems
2.  North East Rural  Continuation      1983       1     Focus on livestock,
Development      of 2 previous                       ag. services, Input
Cr. 1325 ZR      livestock proj.                     supply, marketing.
3.  Lulua Maize      Increase maize    1985        3    Management
Cr. 1540 ZR      production and                      weaknesses.
rural dev.
4.  South Shaba      Rural develop-    1987        -     Became effective
Project          ment, increase                      10/15188
maize production.
2. PROJECT TIME TABLE
Item                 Date Planned    Date Revised       Actual Date
-  Identification/            Nov. 1978        n.a.             Nov. 1978
Appraisal
- Appraisal/                  Dec. 1978        n.a.             Oct. 1979
Post-appraisal
- Negotiations                Sept.1979        n.a.             02/24/81
-  Board Approval             Dec. 1979        n.a.             05/26/81
- Credit signing                 n.a.        06/15/81           07/23/81
-  Effectiveness               10/15/81      11/23/81           07/07/82
- Completion                  06/30183       06130/85           06/30/86
- Credit closing               12/31/83      12131/86           07/10/87



APPENDIX II
Page 2 of 9
The following issues were raised at the various stages of the
project cycles
During appraisal: The length of implementation period; project organization
and management; staffing and technical *ssistance; the technical package;
agricultural pricesg projects costs and financing.
The decision meeting agreed that a pilot project would better demonstrate
the Bank's commitment to lending to agriculture in Zaire than a PPF, thus
minImizing the risks of repayment in case a second stage project would not
come through (see below). It decided on a two year pilot period. It
formulated the project objectives as:
a.  obtain guarantees of Government's comitment to the
Project.
b.  to test the institutional arrangements;
c. to start the extension program and collect further data
for a full scale project.
At negotiations:  The Goverrment delegation insisted on an early evaluation
of the follow-up project, It was agreed that it could take place witbin 10
months after effectiveness. It was also agreed that CODAIK would coordinate
all agricultural development activities in the region, and that extension
activities would expand at an early stage.
Durin* supervision: Supervision mission raised repeatedly management issues
(e.g. lack of managerial coherence -nd efficiency, lack of experience,
overstaffing in some areas, intern-! tensions and board interference in day-
to-day management), the lack of project funding, the absence of proper
monitoring.
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
A. Disbursements per year.
The disbursements in millions of US$ were made as follows:
Cummulative Total       Actual as 2 of
Credit         FY Year   estimate     actual    estimate      total
disbursed
Cr.1152 ZR      1981       0.1          0.-        0.-          0.-
1982       1.0          0.23      23.-         9.-
1983 1)   2.2           0.70      31.-        18.3
1984       2.6 2)       1.38      48.-        26.7
1985       2.6          2.34      80.7        37.7
1986       2.6          2.54      98.-        98.-
1987 3)    2.6          2.55     i00.-       100.-
PPF.P 417-ZR 4) 1987188    0.6          0.19      46.5



APPENDIX II              U
-16 -                      Page 3 of 9
1) The closing date was twice revised, see para 3.08
2) The credit amounted to 2.4 million SDR, which wa at appraisal estimated
at 2.9 dollars.
3) Last payment made July 10, 1987
4) The PPF has been approved March 1987. The disbursements under the PPF are
mentioned, because some costs diectly related to the pilot project have been
financed by this PPF, such as preparation of follow-up project, final
payments of equipment with delayed delivery. After cance?ation of the
follow-up project, the disbursed amount will be repaid over a five year
period.
B. Disbursements per catsgorv.
The following disbursements were made:
Catetorv                         Estimate  Revised   Actual
Estimate*
........ .thousand SDR. ... .
1.  Experts services                     680       750        666
2. Vehicles, equipment CODAIK 1)         380       850      1.224
3.  Civil works CODAIR                   240        50         34
4.  Construction Aquaculture Center      110         0          0
5. Studies follow-up project             100       250         62
6.  Studies viability Ec. Recovery Fund   25        25          0
7.  Consultant fees/equipment part 2)    250       298        287
8.  Refunding PPF 152                    250       127        127
9. Unallocated                           365        50          0
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              2.400    2.400       2.400
1) Trucks, tractors and implements, jeeps, motorcycles, radio phonie and
office equipment.
2) For the ministry of planning. Financing of Mr. Lulaney, consultant, and
ICTAD experts; including car and equipment.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
At the time of appraisal the following indicators were
included:
--------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Indicator                    Avoraisal Estimate        Actual
Preaaratorv Phase.
1. Recruitment consultants   ready by August 1980      February 1982



APPENDIX II
Page 4 of 9
- 17 -
2. Establishment of CODAIK   by June 1980              May 1982
3. Recruitment of General    by July 1980              March 1982
Manager
Implementation Phase.
4. Recruitment of management  by November 1980         mid 1982
staff
5. Establishment of admini-  by October 1980           mid 1983
stratison of CODAIK                               (financial advisor
not appolnted)
6. Recruitment of short term
consultants: marketing,
credit, fishery and     December 1980             June 1983*
livestock.
7. Training Program          planning ready by         Not developped.
February 1981            Included in annual
work programs.
8. Farmer Associations       Organisation starting Attempts were made
April 1981           since 1983. Informal
First Unit operational associations of live-
June 1981             stock farmers were
formed, but no formal
associations became
operative.
-----------------------------------------------------------__---------------
Note: The fishery and livestock activities were later on eliminated from the
project.
9. Aquaculture Center        Start by February 1981 not executed*
lO.Establisment of CODAIK's   Ready Oct. 1981       establishment in
office and house                               1982; constructions
construction                                   postponed to follow
up project.
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Costs
Project costs are not precisely known (see below sub B).
However, the total costs are about $ 5.5 million, as compared to the
estimated $ 5.6 million. It remAined slightly below estimate due to reduced
counterpart funding. The cost distribution over the various components was



APPFNDIX II
Page 5 of 9
- 18 -
very different from the appraisal estimate.  Since no records were kept per
component, only an estimated comparison is given below:
estimated*      actual
0...... US$ million 
Preparatory phase (orly PPF expenses)       0.25            0.13
Establishment of Development Authority       1.24           2.46
Buildings, equipment, operating costs
of CODAIK. 1)
Technical Assistance 2)                     2.00            1.95
includes TA to Ministry of Planning,
GTZ support aMd Gen.Director paid under
the IDA project.
Training and Extension 3)                   0.90            0.22
Breeding Ranch                              0.17            O.-
Support services and Infrastructure 4)      0.54            0.24
Aquaculture center                          0.24            0.-
Applied Research and Studies, including     0.26            0.60
studies for follow-up activities
Total                               5.60            5.60
Base costs plus 22Z contingencies(physical and price)
1) Disbursements by IDA for vehieles, equipment and civil works, and
Government financing. Some vehicles worked exclusively for extension.
2) GTZ also covered some operational costs under very critical
circumstances, and the cars provided to consultants contributed to extension
work.
3) The actual costs excludes vehicles and vehicle operating costs.
4) Reserach activities have been minimal. Road maintenance has been
partially financed with funds from the Governor of Bandundu, who receives in
principle all rural road maintenance funds, whereafter he distributes funds
to the private sector and projects.
The emphasis on administration and operating costs is also
illustrated in the follwing estimate per cost centers (prepared by the 1986
audit):
Expenses made for:       1983     1984     1985      1986    Total
Period
*    .****percentage of total expenses.......
Direction and                65       45       45        64      54
Administration
Extension and                11       15        11       11      12
Development
Studies and Planning         16       29       23         7      18
Commercial activities         8       11        21       18      16
Total                  100      100      100       100     100



APPENDIX II
Page 6 of 9
There are serious doubts whother the lputation of costs have
been correctly made (e.g. little overheads have been charged to commercial
activities, and no transport operating costs have been charged to
extension). Nevertheless, the table illustrates the lopsided management of
the project activities.
B. Proiect Financing
Project costs were financed as follows:
Estimate          Actual
USS million   Z    USS million   I
IDA  1)                           2.6      46        2.7       49
West German Goverment  2)         1.0       18       1.0       18
Zaire Government  3)              2.0      36        1.2       22
Self financed  4)                   0       0        0 6       11
Total                        5.6     100       5.5       100
1) Actual payment includes the about US$ 100.000 from the PPF P 417 ZR,
disbursed in 1987 for outstanding payments, committed under the project
before June 1986.
2) GTZ does not provide the CODAIK administration with exact cost data. By
mid 1986 GTZ urged IDA to prepare a follow-up project, because it had
practical disbursed its first 3 year trache. The amount of $ 1 million is
assumed.
3) Based on the long term loans of 1984-1986, converted to dollars based on
average exchange rates ( 84: 33.75; 85: 4975; 86: 60.0 ). The budgetary
support in 1987 may have paid for expenses made before June 1986.
4) Based on gross margin of marketing activities. In fact they represent
Government financing, because working capital for commercial activities were
borrowed from Government, and still have to be repaid.



APPENDIX II
PaRge 7 of 9
- 20 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Results
The Project did not define specific indicators for the
monitoring of project results. Also the monitoring unilt to be established,
was supposed to identify these criteria. However, this unit never performed
well. The supervision missions recorded the following results:
----------------------------------------------------------__---------------
a.  Number of extension agents employed by CODAIR         65
b. Ratio of farmers to one extension agent                40
c.  Farmers reached with technical package for            3,000 1)
cassava cultivation
d. Yield increase of cassava in assisted plots            up to 50X
e.  Corrals for cattle treatment built                    25
f. Number of small farmers cattle treated yearly          2,500 2)
g. Kilometers of roads maintained                         1,800 3)
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
1) about 0.5 promille of total small farmer population in the project area;
and about 5-102 of farmers of the PAI population.
2) an estimated 10 X of the herd of cattle owned by small farmers.
3) about 14Z of total length of rural roads, and about 501 of the most
important roads.
B. Economic and Financial Impact
7.           The appraisal report did not calculate an economic rate of
return for the project, nor a financial rate of return for the proposed
development company. No such returns were calculated after project closure,
but if carried out, would in all likelyhood have been negative.
C. Studies.
Purpose as defined
Study           at appraisal              Status     Impact
1. Marketing Study* Review existing structure  Consultant      none
and pricing system; make    received
proposals for a marketing  June 1984
program by November 1981.
2. Credit study*   Review existing credit sys- Consultant      credit
tems; estimate needs for   report          activities
credit and prepare a credit received       minimal
program by November 1981.   June 1984



APrFmnTY TT
- 21 -                      "      0 o
3. Follow-up        Prepare proposals for       proposal for a proposal
Project      follow-up programs.         second CODAIK   appraised
project ready   but not
in May 1986     negotiated
-------------------------------------------------------------__------------
* Government never commented or approved the consultant reports.
CODAIK's staff with assistance from GTZ consultants carried out the follwing
surveys.
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section No. in        Summary                        Status
Loan agreement      Description
3.01 (c)  The Borrower shall make the        Complied with.
proceeds of the Credit available
to CODAIK under a subsidiary
agreement on terms and conditions
to be approved by IDA.
3.02 (c)  By the end of the first quarter    Contributions released with
of each year the Borrower shall    delays in early stages and
deposit its share of Project       insufficiently in later
financing for that year in         stages. Condition not
CODAIK's account                   satisfied.
3.03      CODAIK shall employ experts in    Management positions largely
management, aquaculture, marke-    filled. Short term experts re-
ting, agricultural credit, live-   cru'ted and reports received
stock and six technicians (for     July '84. Financial management
CODAIK management)                 assistance provided on a
recurrent basis.
3.05 (a)  CODAIK will furnish promptly       It was agreed that six-month
to IDA quarterly and annual        reports would be prepared.
reports, contract documents,       Contract documents and
and work and procurement           schedules received promptly
schedules for the Project.         until June 1986.
3.05 (d)  CODAIK will prepare and furnish    Not complied with.
to IDA a Project completion report
no later than six months after
closing date
3.06      CODAIK's General Manager will pre- Complied with until 1986.
pare an annual work program by
November 1 each year. (Program
must be acceptable to IDA)
3.08      The Borrower shall employ a con-   Government agreed to carry
sultant to evaluate the economic   out the studies at a later



A'PF!MTX II
- 22 -                         Tage q of 9
recovery fund, and shall furnish   date. Recovery Fund has been
the consultant's report to IDA       abolished in 1987.
by AUGUST 31, 1982.
3.10      The Borrower, IDA and GTZ shall    Partially carred out in the
jointly complete a mid-term review Oct. 1983 evaluation mission.
by October 15, 1982 or such later Not completed due to delay in
date as may be acceptable to the   implemention.
Borrower, IDA and GTZ.
4.01      CODAIK will maintain records in    After initial difficulties,
accordance with appropiate           complied with.
acccounting practices, and will
retain all documentary evidence
necessary for verifying the SOE's
until one year after closing date.
4.02      CODAIK will have its accounts and  Complied with, but with
financial statenents audited by in-        delays.
dependant audit'3rs and will submit
to IDA certifi.d copies of such
statements and the auditors reports
within four months of the end of
the fiscal year.



16                     17                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAIRE                                    194SDAN
ZAJRE                                                           CAMEROON%P 
KWANGO- KWILU                                                              TTn_
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                             iP0 
PROJET DE DEVE10A/F4.EMN  AGAI'OPASTORAIA /NT(GA'f                                                  G        OF ~~"~         ZA
PEOPLE'S                                                   ot' KWANGO-KW/LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DUAWAG-l(IU                                                , *n
3.                                                                                                                                       -                       K .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
R E P U B L I C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL ~A
r                                              Manimba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    Mea                                         yr      v  
Conventi~~~ns a re/Once,~g
Paved road ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~
R,AS    Z$pAIO#     RE
A            CarpsproLec
-6'
pbletoh mdums par ps dE/  V. I
do-evhniedlopintentners   fic  L Rue
- - - Former manenane onteracts t,sonberenerwe
Pavedroa
ZOtlheroadsurer 
7     S Frris tode rplcdybrdes/
Subif regiona capitol04
Notsional caelpitol  enter
CO1eft dIeq dlt1o/Mtn  aSoWe
r     Zonal beundpariers                                                                                          -. %a
Sub-regional bonapietal~OL
Regional    bo na rital_                                                      _  _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  __ _ _  _ _ _  _   
L1iml'es de rig/os
Sunternaional boundaries                                            MkS



