Document of                 fl      LO?N
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2824-ZR
ZAIRE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 15, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit           =           Zaires (Z) = 100 Makuta (K)
US$1.00                 =2.9
91.00                               US$0.34
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                      British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                      3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)                                   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )          =              0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                                   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                                      0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)               =              2,205 pounds (lb)
1 long ton                                       2,240 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ARP     - Agricultural Recovery Program (Programme de Relance Agricole)
BDD     - Bureau Diocesain du Developpement (Diocesan Development Bureau)
CODAIK  - Compagnie pour le Developpement Agricole Integre du Kwango-Kwilu
(Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agricultural Development Company)
FAO     - United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
GTZ     - Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(Technical Cooperation Association - Germany)
INERA   - Institut National des Etudes et des Recherches Agronomiques
(National Institute of Agronomic Research and Studies)
MPP     - Mouvement du Progres Populaire (Popular Progress Movement)
ONACER  - Gffice National des Cereales (National Cereals Office)
ONDE    - Office National pour le Developpement de l'Elevage (National
Livestock Development Office).
ONPV    - Office National des Produits Vivriers (National Food Crop Office)
PAP     - Programme Agricole Protestant (Protestant Agriculture Program)
PRONAM  - Programme National Manioc (National Manioc Program)
PLZ'   - Plantations Lever au Zaire
PNM     - Programme National Mais (National Maize Program)
UNDP    - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
(Government)
January 1 - December 31
1/ Exchange rate prevailing on April 15, 1981.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND ...............................................                   1
A.    Introduction ........................................                 1
B.    Government Services to Agriculture  ....              ..............    2
C.    Government Strategy for Agricultural Development                      3
II. THE KWANGO KWILU SUBREGIONS ..............................                   5
A.    Physical Description ................................                 5
B.    Agriculture in the Subregions .......................                 7
III. THE KWANGO-KWILU INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ........................   10
IV. THE PROJECT ..............................................    13
A.    Objectives and Strategy .............................   13
B.    General Description .................................   13
C.    The Project Area ....................................    14
D.    Detailed Technical Features  .........................   14
E.    Costs and Financing .................................   21
F.    Project Financing ...................................   22
G.    Procurement .........................................   23
H.    Disbursements .......................................   23
I.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ....               ..............   24
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ......   25
A.    Organization and Management  .........................   25
B.    Project Implementation Schedule  .....................   31
VI. BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION ........................   32
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................   34
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Zaire
in November/December 1978, composed of D. Lallement, L. Pham, Y. Wong-
You-Cheong (IDA), and L. Hunt (consultant). A team from Deutsche
Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) appraised the project
jointly with the IDA team.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF TABLES AND SUPPORTING MATERIALS
Page No.
Table 1   Project Costs ........       ...............................   37
Table 2   Estimated Financing Plan ............................          38
Table 3   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....      .............    39
Table 4   Indicative Financial Statement ....       ..................   40
Chart 1   Implementation Schedule .............................          41
Chart 2   Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agricultural and Livestock
Development Company - Organization Chart ....    ........     42
Chart 3   Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agricultural and Livestock
Development Company - Organization Chart at Full
Development .........     ................................    43
List of Materials Available in Implementation Volume .44-45
Map IBRD 14469



ZAIRE
YWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      In November, 1978, the Government of Zaire requested IDA to finance
an integrated agricultural and livestock development project in the Kwango-
Kwilu area of Bandundu Region. Two preparation reports had previously been
submitted; one report contained a proposal for an integrated crop, livestock
and rural development program in the Kwango-Kwilu sub-regions, the other a
proposal for a cattle ranching program, also in Kwango-Kwilu. However, the
two programs had not been consolidated nor had they been presented as a
single, coherent project prior to appraisal.
1.02      The present report is the result of a preparation/appraisal mission
which visited Zaire in November/December 1978. This was a joint mission
by IDA and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) composed
of the following members: D. Lallement, L. Pham and Y. Wong-You-Cheong, IDA;
L. Hunt, IDA consultant; R. Rahe, Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), and A. Schoen and W. Warmbier, GTZ consultants. A
post-appraisal mission composed of D. Lallement, IDA, and M. Hemrich, FRG,
(part-time) visited Zaire in early October 1979. Further technical dis-
cussions took place in Washington between IDA and GTZ in December, 1979, and
between IDA, GTZ, and a delegation of the Zairian Government in April 1980.
1.03      Based on its field work, the appraisal mission concluded that
there is undoubtedly good potential for a successful integrated agricultural
and livestock development program in the Kwango and Kwilu sub-regions (para
3.01). The mission concluded, however, that a broad-based, comprehensive
project would be premature under present conditions and unlikely to succeed.
Because of the urgent need to revitalize the agricultural sector in Zaire and
to support the efforts of both the public and private sectors, an initial
technical assistance Project with an implementation period of approximately
two years was proposed, to develop and subsequently test the capacity of the
institutions required for the implementation of a more comprehensive develop-
ment effort in the region. The Government of Zaire has reviewed this recom-
mendation fully and supports the proposed approach.
1.04      The proposed Project would be the seventh IDA-supported agricultural
Project for Zaire. The First Livestock Development Project (Credit 398-ZR)
was approved in 1973 (US$8.0 million), the Cotton Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 660-ZR) in 1976 (US$8.0 million), and the Ituri Livestock Development
Project (Credit 697-ZR) in 1977 (US$8.5 million). These three projects have
encountered serious implementation difficulties, due to weak institutional
capacity and delays in provision of counterpart funds, but performance has now
substantially improved.   The Oil Palm Project (Credit 796-ZR) was approved
in 1978 (US$9.0 million) but only became effective in December 1980 because
of difficulties in reaching agreement with the companies and complicated
co-financing arrangements; nevertheless, project implementation is well



advanced. A Smallholder Maize Project (Credit 1040-ZR) was approved in
June 1980 (US$11.0 million) and a Sugar Project (Credit 1080-ZR) was approved
in December 1980 (US$26.4 million/ SDR 20.2); a Second Cotton Rehabilitation
Project has been appraised and should be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY 1982.
B. Government Services to Agriculture
Administrative Services
1.05      In Zaire, administrative Services are organized by region, sub-
region, zone and, finally, by "collectivite." Regions are headed by Governors,
and subregions and zones by commissioners who are politico-administrative
officials appointed by the President of the Republic and who report to the
Department of the Interior. "Collectivites" are governed by a "chef de
collectivite" who is often the traditional chief as well as a government
official. Technical Departments of the Central Government are represented at
the regional, subregional and zonal levels. Their representatives report to
the respective commissioners but depend on their Departments for technical
support and for their salaries. These administrative services are severely
constrained by inadequate financial means and logistical support, and by the
relatively low technical capacity of their staff.
Technical Services
1.06      The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is respon-
sible for formulating agricultural policy, providing extension services
and assisting the parastatal bodies under its control such as the National
Institute for Agricultural Studies and Research (INERA) and the National
Livestock Development Office (ONDE) (para 1.07). For about a year, in
1978, the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Rural Development
existed separately but they were merged into one Department with two State
Secretaries, one for Agriculture, and one for Rural Development, in January
1979. To date the respective responsibilities of each State Secretariat are
ill-defined and coordination between them is poor. In the past, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture has had very limited financial resources and staff
capability. In recent years, it has developed two crop specific national
programs with foreign assistance, the National Maize Program (PNM) and the
National Manioc Program (PRONAM), whose objectives are to identify high
yielding and disease resistant seed and plant varieties for Zaire.
1.07      A number of parastatals are active in the agricultural sector.
The National Livestock Development Office (ONDE) is a Government enterprise
created under Ordinance-Law No. 73-029 of August 30, 1973 as the implementa-
tion agency for the IDA-financed First Livestock Development Project (Credit
398-ZR). Initially responsible solely for the management of the three project
ranches in Shaba, ONDE subsequently took charge of several other ranches
and livestock related operations during the nationalization and radicalization
period of 1974-77. ONDE is still a partner in many livestock enterprises
which were retroceded to their former owners following the 1977 denationaliza-
tion period. At present, ONDE operates three ranches in Shaba (under Credit
398-ZR), two abattoirs in Ituri, a small cattle ranch in Kwango, and a small



cattle farm and a poultry farm in Bas-Zaire. ONDE's performance has been
limited by its managerial and technical capacity which are still being
developed, and the very unstable political and economic environment in which
it has had to operate.
1.08      The National Food Crop Office (ONPV) is a Government enterprise
which replaced the former National Grain Board (ONACER) in 1978, assuming its
responsibility for facilitating the marketing of food crops. ONPV is respon-
sible for channeling imported commodities to consumer centers suffering from
food shortages. It is also responsible for buying up food crops in the
farming regions and for subsequently selling them to consumers at official
prices. In theory, this Government agency should be self-supporting. In
practice, however, like the former ONACER, ONPV is encountering serious
problems as a result of its inability to compete with private tradesmen
offering producers two to three times the official minimum price. Its
operations on the market are, therefore, extremely limited.
C. Government Strategy for Agricultural Development
Background
1.09      In spite of the importance of the agricultural sector for the
Zairian economy and for the Zairian people, overall agricultural production
has declined considerably since Independence. The Government's neglect of
the agricultural sector is evidenced by the low shares of the investment and
operating budgets it has received. With the continuous deterioration of the
Zairian economy since 1975, the international community, which holds most of
Zaire's external debt, pressed the Government to take economic recovery
measures. These pressures resulted in the preparation of an agricultural
recovery program and an investment program. In addition, the Government has
initiated other measures to improve the performance of the agricultural
sector, such as the creation of economic recovery funds (para 1.12).
The Agricultural Recovery Program (Programme de Relance Agricole)
1.10      The Agricultural Recovery Program (ARP) was prepared as part of
the Mobutu Plan, which was to define the general objectives for Zaire's
economic recovery. ARP presented the Government's assessment of the situ-
ation and its proposals for solving the major problems, including identifica-
tion of the key investments necessary to stimulate agricultural production.
It was discussed by the Agricultural Working Group set up in 1977 following
the 1976 Consultative Group meeting. In this context, the Zaire Government
and the representatives of various donors agreed on the major current bottle-
necks for agricultural development and on priority investments which could
be identified. These included: (i) restoring transportation links in the
rural areas; (ii) raising productivity on small farms; (iii) applying simple
and low cost agricultural technologies; (iv) reviewing pricing and marketing
policies and marketing institutions; (v) involving the private sector in
the recovery program; and, (vi) strengthening agricultural training and
extension.



1.11      Since the last meeting of the Agricultural Working Group in March
1978, IDA has continued the sectoral dialogue with the Government in the
context of the preparation of the investment program for 1979 - 1981, during
project supervision and preparation missions, and recently during discussions
held in Zaire of an Agricultural Sector Memorandum prepared by IDA and
accompanied by a Project Implementation Review. In the latest draft of the
investment program, the Government proposes to allocate about 4% of total
government expenditures for direct agricultural activities.
Development Agreements and Economic Recovery Funds
1.12      The Government has recently acknowledged its limited capacity
to revive the agricultural sector and has called more and more on the private
sector to intervene directly. To stimulate participation by the private
sector in the national economic recovery effort, the Government established a
system of economic recovery funds in 1978. The system was institutionalized
by law 79-002 of February 7, 1979. Under the law, industrial and commer-
cial enterprises are to participate in the national effort for economic recovery
by signing Development Agreements with the national Executive Council,
whereby they are authorized to establish an economic recovery fund from the
collection of a special charge added to the official sales price which must
not exceed 10% of the retail value of each unit produced or sold. The proceeds
are to be deposited once a month in an account with the Bank of Zaire which is
to be managed by the enterprise on behalf of the Government; the enterprise is
to keep separate accounts for this fund. The fund is to be used to finance
development projects with priority given to import substitution projects for
enterprises engaged in a productive activity. When operating in the interior
of the country, the enterprises can use this fund to finance the maintenance
and/or construction of transport and social infrastructure (e.g., roads,
schools, dispensaries). The enterprises can implement such development
projects on their own or sub-contract their implementation to other companies
and to private or public organizations under implementation agreements.
1.13      Under Departmental Ordinance No. BCE/ENI 091/78 of October 25,
1978 1/ a supervisory committee is responsible for approving all the projects
to be financed by an enterprise through an economic recovery fund, and
for monitoring their performance. It is composed of ten members of whom two
represent the enterprise, six are from the Departments of Finances, Planning,
Portfolio, National Economy and Industry, and Agriculture and Rural
Development, and two are commissioners from the General Accounting Office.
The Department of National Economy and Industry has in practice had principal
responsibility for control and coordination of private enterprise activities
under Development Agreements.
1.14      To date, the experience with Development Agreements has been mixed,
although on the whole it has proved positive. Several companies have signed
Development Agreements with the national Executive Council and have expressed
1/   The ordinance has not been revised since the 1978 Ordinance of July 14,
1978 on Development Agreements was replaced by Law 79-002 mentioned above.



- 5 -
their satisfaction with the system; they have embarked on a wide range of
activities including direct cultivation of maize and other crops, extension
work with farmers, and development of basic infrastructure. Other companies
have expressed some dissatisfaction with the system and its management.
Notably, they have argued that controls on use of funds are too tight, and
they are concerned about keeping the level of autonomy which they have in
practice enjoyed in managing these funds. The law is not yet uniformly
applied by all companies, and the success and quality of management of the
projects largely depend on the individual companies establishing Economic
Recovery Funds.
Other Measures
1.15      Several other measures introduced in 1978 to revitalize the economy
are encouraging. Law No. 008 adopted in January 1978 invested the regions
with unprecedented autonomy and responsibility for their own economic develop-
ment. A network of Regional Economic Development Councils is currently being
set up to serve as a consultative apparatus for the economic development of
the different regions and subregions and to assume responsibility for
coordinating and monitoring investment and development projects and programs.
II. THE KWANGO KWILU SUBREGIONS
A. Physical Description
General
2.01      The Kwango subregion is located in the southern and eastern corners
of the Bandundu region. It is divided into five administrative zones: Kenge,
Popokabaka, Kasongo-Lunda, Feshi and Kahemba. The Kwilu subregion, lying to
the northeast of the Kwango sub-region and bordered by the Kasai River on
the north, also contains five administrative zones: Bagata, Masi-Manimba,
Bulungu, Idiofa and Gungu (Map IBR9 14469). Together, the Kwango and Kwilu
sub-regions cover about 165,000 km . The population of Kwango is estimated at
about 820,000 and that of Kwilu at about 1,740,000. Kikwit is the largest town
of the area, with a population of about 130,000. Migration of young people away
from the rural areas to urban centers such as Kikwit and Kinshasa is very
marked.  The area2around Kikwit already has a population density of nearly
50 inhabitants/km .  The relatively high population density throughout the
area is considered a positive factor in the development of these sub-
regions, as ample labor is available to support development programs.
Although the population of the Kwango-Kwilu has a history of economic enter-
prise and adaptability, it is presently among the poorest regions of Zaire,
primarily because the region was kept in relative isolation by the Central
Government following the Mulelist Rebellion in 1964, which aimed at estab-
lishing an autonomous regional Government.
Climate, Topography and Natural Resources
2.02      Precipitation averages 1,600 mm per year, with two distinct rainy
seasons from March to April and from October to November. The main dry



- 6 -
season runs from May to August, with another shorter dry season from January
to February of each year. There tends to be a decline in precipitation from
south to north with the decline in altitude. The evaporation rate is approx-
imately 2-5 mm per day. There is a soil moisture deficit during the dry
season when crops with short growing cycles are not cultivated. While total
precipitation is not a constraint during the wet season, the resulting moisture
is not necessarily retained by the area's sandy soils. Mean temperatures vary
only by +2 C approximately, between 23 and 25 degrees Centigrade.
2.03      Topography.  As a whole, the subregions can be described as a
narrow plateau of moderate altitude sloping relatively steeply down to a deep
valley. The savannah-covered plateau which ranges from 800 to 1,200 m above
sea level is crisscrossed in places by steep, deep valleys cutting into the
Kwilu highlands in a south-north direction. Idiofa zone, where the Kwango
and Kwilu plateaux meet, is slightly lower in altitude. Both subregions have
a well-developed river system; the Kwilu river is navigable as far as Kikwit.
2.04      Generally, the natural resources of the Kwango and Kwilu subregions
are suitable for crop and livestock development but soil conservation measures
are urgently needed to prevent exhaustion of these resources through haphazard
land use. The soils of the area can be divided into: (a) the sandy soils of
the high plateau and upper slopes; and (b) the colluvial and alluvial soils of
the lower slopes and valley floor (with higher clay content). The soils of
group (a) are poor; they have low water retention capacity and are relatively
unstable with weak cohesive force and high erodibility. They are also poor in
the organic matter and nutrients needed for plant growth. Soils of group (b)
are relatively richer as a result of their higher clay content. However, both
the plateau and valley soils have only small reserves of nutrients and could
not support intensive farming systems without the application of fertilizer.
Road System and Transportation
2.05      The Kwango and Kwilu subregions are linked to Kinshasa and Bandundu
by a relatively good road network and river system. There exists, therefore,
a virtually unlimited and immediately accessible market for staple foodstuffs
produced in the subregions. However, the network of access roads within the
area has rarely been maintained for the last 10 or 20 years and is in very
poor condition. Certain dirt roads in Kwilu are totally impassable during the
rainy season, while the sandy tracks of Kwango are impassable during the dry
season. Road maintenance has improved slightly over the past two years as a
result of the creation of independent road crews operating out of the Office
des Routes. These crews, however, are few in number and often lack the
necessary equipment as a result of the limited budget assigned to the Office
des Routes. Certain access roads are repaired by local villagers using
the most rudimentary materials and repair methods. Others are kept up by
missions or private contractors. There is practically no public transporta-
tion except for the boats navigating the area-s major rivers. Most people
travel either by foot or private vehicle. Merchants with trucks or pick-ups
often pick up passengers along the major arteries of the region.



-7-
B. Agriculture in the Subregions
Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.06      Two major categories of farmers are presently distinguished by the
regional agricultural extension services, the small scale farmers, termed
"paysan", and the medium-scale farmers, termed "fermier." The size of the
field cultivated by the small-scale farmer depends on how large an area he
can cultivate using family labor.  There are no accurate statistics on the
average size of such holdings. The family may keep a few goats and chickens
and sometimes even a few hogs. Medium-scale farmers cultivate much larger
*        tracts of land, emn½nying day la' rers during certain neqk seasons.  Generally,
the medium-scale farmer will raise cattle in audition to the smi,ler stock
(goats and chickens) kept for family subsistence.
2.07      All land is Government-owned but, even today, it is still managed
by traditional communities at the "collectivite" level. Small farmers cul-
tivate farm land attributed to them by the "collectivite" authorities who also
allocate communal grazing lands. Medium-scale farmers receive their lands by
applying directly to the Government authorities. They are required to support
their application by submitting a development plan for the land in question.
Government officials ensure that lands are unoccupied and make the necessary
arrangements with the "collectivite" authorities who, in turn, base their
decisions on traditional practice. While this system has made it possible
to develop a certain number of medium-scale farms, it imposes significant
constraints. Notably, many young people are discouraged from farming because
their maternal uncle has the right, traditionally, to take possession of their
lands at any time.
Markets and Prices
2.08      Agricultural produce exported from the Project area is taken to
market mostly by truck and to a limited extent by river boat. There is no
established schedule of rural markets. There are a number of traditional or
informal-sector markets operating in rural areas, the largest of which is in
Bulungu, but most produce is consumed locally. From time to time, tradesmen
from Kinshasa will travel to markets in the interior to obtain supplies, but
most deal directly with the villages and then only with the most accessible
ones.
2.09      In theory, the price of food and other agricultural products is
established and controlled by the Government. However, shortages of food
in Kinshasa have made any attempt at effective control virtually impossible.
Thus, the selling prices of staple food crops such as manioc, maize and rice
are actually two to three times higher than their official prices. The ratio
between consumer prices in Kinshasa and farm-gate prices in Kwango-Kwilu is
nearly 3.5:1, reflecting the high cost involved in transporting the goods to
market as a result of the numerous risks involved, the cost of trucks and
the shortage of spare parts and fuel. Food shortages in the Zairian capital
and the fact that goods are resold many times by intermediaries because trade



- 8 -
has become one of the few activities that can provide a livelihood in the
urban areas only exacerbate this situation. Most commercial activities are
typically short-term operations from which the merchant tries to earn as much
money as he can in the shortest possible time. Present conditions, however,
make business operations far from efficient; trucks are in poor condition
due to the shortage of spare parts and they have to make the long haul from
Kinshasa to Kikwit empty since no consumer goods are currently available in
Kinshasa for resale in the interior.
Government Services
2.10      Agricultural extension and animal production and health services
operating in the subregions are generally very weak. With a total of about
70 Al and A2 agronomists and veterinarians and about 295 lower level (A3)
agricultural staff (the latter working exclusively at the village level)
staff numbers are adequate. However, training programs for staff members at
higher and medium technical (levels Al and A2) are far more theoretical than
practical and there is a definite lack of supervision and logistical support.
Formal training programs available for A3-level staff are negligible and more
often than not these workers find themselves entirely without the means to
accomplish their tasks. Their work consists primarily of preparing agricul-
tural statistics for administrative reports despite the fact that they have
no methodology and no resources through which to obtain valid figures. Their
work is often used for taxation purposes (legal or otherwise) and this
generates hostility among the local population. Agricultural research is
practically nonexistant. The research station at Kiyaka has very limited
activities due to lack of funds and qualified staff.
Other Services
2.11      Bilateral and Multilateral Agencies:  The Chinese Agricultural
Mission (MAC) operates a small rice-growing complex in Kikwit specializing in
seed production and manages an extension program to promote rice production,
primarily in Bulungu zone. Their centers train both extension workers and
farmers. The two main varieties of rice used are R66 (rainfed) and IR8
(irrigated). The Peace Corps has run a fisheries program for several years.
To date, volunteers working as extension agents under the program have
trained some 20 or 30 area farmers. Plans for 1979/80 are to expand the
scope of the program through the creation of a network of small fish breeding
centers, an extension service devoted exclusively to fish farming and a
research center in Gandajika, in Eastern Kasai, which will also be used as
a training center for extension workers. A joint UNDP/FAO rural development
project has recently been initiated. The objective of this project is to
develop a long-term program for the development of rural services in the                    A
region, and it should provide a useful complement to the proposed Project.
2.12      Private Organizations.  There are several non-profit, private
organizations established in the Project area. Most are Catholic or Pro-
testant missions or foreign volunteer organizations. The major operations
within the area are managed by: (i) the Diocesan Development Bureau (BDD),
in Bulungu zone; the BDD has several stockfarms through which it attempts to



- 9 -
promote cattle raising, primarily through a system of metayage. 1/ It also
runs several schools, including the centers at the Vanga and Lusekele missions
which train extension workers and local farmers. The BDD receives most of
its funds from organizations such as MISEREOR (Germany). (ii) The Protestant
Agricultural Program (PAP) manages a stockfarm in Kibolo, near Kikwit, from
which it has mounted a program to develop cattle and poultry raising through
the creation of cooperatives, selling stock on credit. The hog raising
operation had to be abandoned due to a shortage of feed. 'he PAP also operates
a feed mill, an oil press and a chicken farm, all in Kikwi. The mill is
operating at only 10% of its capacity and the finished product is of relatively
poor quality due to a shortage of raw materials. (iii) The Popular Progress
Movement (MPP), in the Diocese of Idiofa, runs certain operations extending
into both Bulungu and Gungu zones. Since 1965, the MPP has been organizing
differenL types of training pr_gris opera,lng ouF ^f cer- 'c ~in laba (farming
and fisheries), Mbeo (stock-raising) and Idiofa (home economics). These
centers also offer certain marketing services (primarily for coffee and
rice) and process agricultural produce. The MPP has begun construction of
an agro-industrial complex which will include a piggery, feed mill, silos,
etc. It is funded not only by the Diocese of Idiofa but also by organizations
such as MISEREOR and OXFAM which has also published some high-quality exten-
sion materials.
2.13      Private, Public and Mixed Capital Corporations.  Before Independence,
it was primarily the country's large private enterprises which had developed
the resources of Bandundu region. Since the major activities were palm oil
production and, more recently, coffee production and stock raising, a series
of plantations and factories, supported by an extensive road network, was
developed.  However, many of these undertakings and much of the infrastructure
were damaged, destroyed or abandonned either during the 1964 rebellion or
between 1973 and 1975 as a result of nationalization measures.
2.14      PLZ Bandundu.  Of the companies still operating in the Kwango-Kwilu
area, PLZ Bandundu, the southern affiliate of Plantations Lever du Zaire, is
by far the largest operation. PLZ Bandundu is currently a mixed capital
corporation with 42% of its stock held by the Government and 58% by UNILEVER;
the Government share is being paid-up from annual corporate dividends. PLZ
still manages some oil palm plantations in the Kwango-Kwilu region and con-
tinues to process fruit from natural palm groves, harvested by the local
population; however, the productivity of the palm-oil industry continues to
decline. Production from natural palm groves, which used to supply three
quarters of the raw material, has been declining year after year while the
production of food crops such as maize and manioc has become increasingly
profitable for the peasant farmer. The productivity of the Bandundu planta-
tions was never adequate to warrant significant investments. PLZ-Bandundu
has already closed down several unprofitable oil mills as well as some of its
other activities like its agricultural school at Lusanga. In 1978, PLZ began
1/   Under this system the farmer receives an in-calf heifer and repays with
two male calves or one female calf.



- 10 -
converting certain plantations for growing food crops. Some 270 ha of land
were cleared and planted in 1978/79, primarily with maize; trials of soybean
and jute have also been undertaken. The goal of PLZ-Bandundu is not only to
create jobs for its workers, who would otherwise be left unemployed as a
result of the slowdown in palm oil production, but also to assist traditional
farmers around the plantations by providing technical support in the form of
extension services, seeds and other inputs, and marketing services for their
harvests. This conversion program is being implemented following a trial-and-
error approach. Funding for the program is mostly being provided from the
breweries (BRALIMA and UNIBRA) economic recovery funds under agreements
signed with PLZ (para 1.12). In return for their funds, PLZ has contracted to
the two breweries its entire maize harvest. The selling price of maize is
fixed and is adjusted each year on the basis of a weighted index (55% for
labor costs and 45% for miscellaneous production costs). The basic selling
price leaves PLZ with a profit margin of 28% over costs. The two major
constraints to program expansion are the shortage of qualified managerial
staff and the lack of foreign exchange to purchase or overhaul its equipment
and to import seeds and fertilizer.
2.15      Parastatals.  In 1975, ONDE (para 1.07) was given responsibility
for operating the Gungu-Katuta ranch in Gungu zone. The Gungu-Katuta ranch,
covering 3,500 hectares, had nearly 900 head of cattle at the time of appraisal,
primarily Ndama, with a few head of Afrikander. This ranch seems better
managed than ONDE's Shaba ranches but certain pastures have been overgrazed
and badly damaged; it is a full cycle (breeding to finishing) operation.
Most of the infrastructure is in good condition. The Government hopes to
improve the ranch, developing new areas extending as far as Kahemba (see Map
14469), the former PLZ stockraising concession which was totally destroyed
during the rebellion. ONPV (para 1.08) has an office in Kikwit but its
activities have reportedly been extremely limited due to lack of adequate
working capital, and transport and storage facilities.
III. THE KWANGO-KWILU INTEGRATED AGRICULTURE
AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
3.01      During the appraisal and post-appraisal field work and discussions,
it was agreed with the Government that it was imperative to define a long-term
approach for the agricultural, rural, and economic development of the Kwango-
Kwilu subregions. As a result, a long-term integrated agricultural and
livestock development program was defined, in the context of which several
projects could be ultimately designed. The Kwango-Kwilu integrated agriculture
and livestock development program would have four main objectives: to develop
the agricultural potential of the areas; to improve the standard of living of
the population of the sub-regions; to increase food production in Zaire and to
improve the supply of food produce to its main consumption market, Kinshasa;
and to save the country-s scarce foreign exchange resources by replacing
imports of staple food with local production. The program would be implemented
over a 15-20 year period, of which the proposed two-year Technical Assistance



- 11 -
Project would be the experimental phase. If successful, the Technical Assis-
tance Project would be followed by several four-to-five year broad-based
projects. The program would be initiated in the administrative zones of
Bulungu, Idiofa, Masi-Manimba, and part of Gungu in the Kwilu subregion, and
in the administrative zone of Feshi in the Kwango Sub-region. A development
authority would be established to implement the program (para 3.04).
3.02      The program was essentially conceived as a production-oriented pro-
gram on the assumption that improvements in the standard of living of the
population could only be brought about by increasing their incomes, and hence
their means for generating such income. Another consideration was that, given
the extremely limited managerial capability available locally, the program
concept should remain simple. However, the program should be coordinated
with other develonment efforts i- the sub-regions, some of which aim mainly
at improving the deiivery and availability OL social seL.ices, _^h as the
UNDP/FAO project (para 2.11). Initially, the program would be limited to
crop, livestock, and aquaculture development in Kwilu, and extensive cattle
ranching in Kwango. If appropriate, the scope of the program could be widened
at a later stage to include other aspects of rural development in addition
to production.
3.03      To achieve the objectives stated above (para 3.01) the program would
be composed of the following major components:
3.04      (a)  The Establishment of a Development Authority for the Kwango-
Kwilu sub-regions.  The national Executive Council would designate the
authority as responsible for planning the agricultural development of the
sub-regions and defining farming systems suitable for the sub-regions; managing
the sub-regional extension services; and developing adequate support services
to farmers, namely marketing, credit, and possibly farming and processing
machinery. This development authority--the Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agricul-
ture Development Company (CODAIK)--would be a mixed-capital company, with the
majority of shares held by the Government. Shareholders other than the
Government could be private or public companies or, at a later stage, farmers'
associations. The initial participants and capital structure would be
determined during the establishment phase of the technical assistance project
(para 5.12). The Government's contribution to the capital of the Company
would be financed by budgetary allocations, agricultural funds ("fonds
agricoles"), and economic recovery funds (para 1.12). CODAIK would be
established by Government decree and would be placed under the joint super-
vision of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development and of the
Department of Portfolio, as required by Zairian administrative regulations for
mixed capital companies or parastatals operating in the agricultural sector.
Local authorities would participate in program implementation through the
regional and zonal Economic Development Councils (para 1.15). The structure
of the company would be defined in accordance with the stipulations of Law
78.002 of January 6, 1978 on public companies. At full development, it would
include a board of directors, a general manager, a management committee, five
technical departments (planning, training and extension, marketing and
supplies, mechanical services, and finance and administration) and zonal
offices (see Chart 3 and paras 5.04-5.08).



- 12 -
3.05      (b)  The Development of a Training and Extension Program with two
major objectives: to establish an efficient and competent extension service
and to define and deliver farming systems adapted to the local conditions.
The target for full development would be to have one well-staffed multi-purpose
(crop, livestock, and aquaculture) extension center in each "collectivite,"
supported by sectoral extension centers grouping several collectivites (two or
three sectors per zone), and by the zonal office and the technical departments
of the Development Authority (CODAIK). The training program would involve
the upgrading and refresher training of existing extension staff, the training
of new staff, and the development of a permanent on-the-job training system
for all extension staff working for CODAIK. The extension program would
consist of promoting improved farming methods, cattle and goat husbandry,
and aquaculture. The technical package would consist of simple and well-
known agriculture techniques, likely to be easily adopted by the local popu-
lation. The present stratification of the production system dictated by the
topography and the nature of soils would be respected, i.e. mainly cropping
and fish farming in the valley bottoms, cropping on lower slopes, and animal
husbandry on the plateaux. However, the program would aim to intensify
the present production system through the improvement of land clearing and
preparation methods, the use of better plant materials, the introduction of
soil conservation methods (reforestation on upper slopes and planting of
anti-erosion hedges with fodder grasses) and the integration of animal
husbandry into the farming system. Under the program, a range of extension
facilities would be built, primarily multipurpose extension centers at
the "collectivite" level (para 4.24).
3.06      (c)  The Development of Cattle Ranches in the Kwango Savannahs.  The
small ONDE cattle ranch of Gungu-Katuta would initially be developed into a
breeding ranch for sale of breeding stock to the traditional sector farmers.
The ranch would be progressively extended towards Kahemba (see Map 14469) and
its vocation changed into a full-cycle operation with breeding carried out
at Kabuba and steer finishing at Gungu-Katuta. Other ranches could be estab-
lished in the savannahs towards Feshi provided that the Gungu-Katuta ranch is
operating satisfactorily and that competent staff are available.
3.07      (d)  The Development of Support Services which would include (i)
agricultural planning and adaptive research services, including the collection
of statistical data and the monitoring of farm developments in order to
define progressively the inputs, crops, fish species and breeds best adapted
to the area; (ii) marketing services for crops and livestock managed by
CODAIK; its intervention would consist of first reestablishing regular peri-
odic rural markets, and publishing minimum producer prices as appropriate,
and second operating as a residual buyer of agricultural produce under
certain circumstances; (iii) credit services managed initially by CODAIK,
possibly, in the long-run, in coordination with SOFIDE and commercial banks
represented locally; and (iv) mechanical services (chiefly ploughing),
managed initially by CODAIK, with possible subcontracting to other institu-
tions such as missions or, in the long-run, to farmers' associations.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
4.01      The principal objective of the proposed Project would be to estab-
lish and develop an institutional and managerial environment in which the
integrated program for the long term agricultural development of the Kwango
and Kwilu subregions (paras 3.01-07) could operate. The Project concept is
that of a relatively small pilot effort designed to plan and test a technical
package and an implementation strategy applicable for possible future projects
within the broad development program for the Kwango-Kwilu subregions.  The
institutional arrangements tested should also provide experience that would
assist in the design of projects elsewhere in Zaire. The Project would also
include a component designed to reinforce the macro-economic planning capability
of the Ministry of Planning.
4.02      The Project would be executed in two phases.  The establishment phase
(paras 5.12-13) would extend over a period of about four months and during
that time the implementing agency, CODAIK (para 3.04), would be established
with a duly appointed Board of Directors and general manager. The implementa-
tion phase (para 5.14) would cover about 20 months and would be devoted to
start-up activities. During this phase, the company-s organization and
operations would be tested, and the activities that might be undertaken in
a subsequent broad-based project would be implemented on a relatively small
scale.
B. General Description
4.03      The proposed Technical Assistance Project would include the fol-
lowing main components:
(i) establishment of a development authority for the
Kwango-Kwilu subregions;
(ii) technical assistance for Project design and management;
(iii) development of a training and extension system for the
Project Area;
(iv)  development of a cattle-breeding ranch;
(v) establishment of supporting services and infrastructure
for marketing and agricultural credit;
(vi) applied research and studies; and
(vii) technical assistance for the Ministry of Planning.



- 14 -
4.04      The Project establishment phase would be implemented by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Rural Development assisted by an interdisciplinary
team of specialists; the Project implementation phase would be executed
by the Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agriculture Development Company (CODAIK) (para
3.04) in accordance with detailed annual work plans (para 5.09).
C. The Project Area
4.05      The proposed Technical Assistance Project would be implemented
in the administrative zones of Bulungu, Idiofa, Masi-Manimba and in the part
of the Gungu zone where the Gungu-Katuta ranch is located in the Kwilu
sub-region and in the administrative zone of Feshi in the Kwango sub-region
(para. 2.01). The administrative capital of the Project area is Kikwit (Map
IBRD 14469). Bulungu, Idiofa, Masi-Manimba, and Feshi have surface areas of
about 12,000 kn2, 20,000 km2, 14,000 km2, and 25,000 km2, respectively.  As of
1976 (latest available figures) population in the four zones was estimated at
345,000 i5habitants (29 people per km ) in Bulungu; 445,200 inhabitants (23
people/km ) in Idiofa; 383,000 inhabitants (27 people/km ) in Masi-Manimba;
and 140,000 inhabitants (6 people/km ) in Feshi. The physical conditions
(climate, topography, etc.) of the Project area are similar to those described
in paras 2.01-2.04 for the Kwilu and Kwango sub-regions as a whole.
D. Detailed Technical Features
Establishment of the Development Authority for the Sub-Regions
4.06      The Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agriculture Development Company (CODAIK)
which would be responsible for the implementation of the proposed development
program (paras 3.01-3.07) would be established under the proposed Technical
Assistance Project. This would include:
4.07      (a)  The administrative, legal and financial preparatory work prior
to the incorporation of the company, namely (i) the design of the corporate
act and the company's statutes; (ii) the identification of the partners in the
company; and (iii) the preparation of its financial structure. All these
activities would be carried out during the Project establishment phase (paras
5.12-13). The Government, through the Department of National Economy and
Industry, has approved the use of Economic Recovery Funds administered by
BRALIMA for the initial financing of CODAIK development activities. It would
be a condition of credit effectiveness that the company had been established,
its statutes approved by IDA, and the general manager appointed.
4.08       (b)  The setting-up and staffing of CODAIK.  During the implementa-
tion of the Technical Assistance Project, the company would be composed of a
Board of Directors, three technical departments (planning and applied research,
training and extension, and administration and finance), and two zonal direc-
torates--one for Bulungu and one for Idiofa (Chart 2). The management of the



- 15 -
Gungu-Katuta breeding ranch would remain with ONDE (para 2.15) under an
implementation agreement (para 5.03) between CODAIK and ONDE. The main
investments under the Project would include the construction or renovation of
appropriate headquarters for CODAIK, the purchase of vehicles, furnishings and
administrative equipment, and incremental operating costs for the company.
Short-Term Consultants' Services and Technical Assistance for Project Management
4.09      Short-Term Consultants' Services.  Two types of such services would
be provided under the Technical Assistance Project:
4.1C      (a)  Coi>.l.a:nts' ServScas to assist Governme&.  Uith v±e c-;ecution
of administrative, legal and financial preparatory activities. The team
would include a management specialist who would also serve as team leader,
a financial analyst and a lawyer (para 5.12). They would be assisted by
local staff from the Departments of Portfolio and Agriculture and Rural
Development who have experience with the establishment of mixed capital
companies. The management specialist and the financial analyst would be
recruited internationally since local capability in these fields is extremely
limited, while the lqwvor woula o. recruited from a local legal firm of
international standing as a detailed knowledge of Zairian corporace laws will
be required (para 4.35). Candidates for all three positions should have
previous experience with the setting up of private or mixed capital
corporations. Fluency in written and spoken French would be required. The
consultants would be recruited for a total of 16 man-months at a total cost of
about US$242,000. The average man-month cost (including salary costs, fees,
international travel and subsistence) is estimated at US$15,125.
4.11      (b)  Consultants' Services to Assist the CODAIK with Project Imple-
mentation. They would include (i) three additional man-months in quarterly
two-week visits for the management expert recruited for Project preparatory
activities (para 4.10) to supervise the management team, monitor the per-
formance of the CODAIK's management, and set up the internal audit unit.
(ii) Four man-months of an aquaculture specialist to carry out a detailed
feasibility study for the aquaculture center (para 4.28), to prepare bidding
documents, and to supervise its construction. (iii) Six man-months of a
marketing specialist to assist CODAIK's management with the design of the
Project marketing component (para 4.26) and to supervise its implementation.
(iv) Six man-months of a credit specialist to assist CODAIK's management with
the design of the Project credit component (para 4.27) and to supervise its
implementation.  (v) Two man-months for a livestock specialist to assist
CODAIK and ONDE to design the operations of the Gungu-Katuta ranch (para
4.25), to start up the new management system and to supervise its performance
through follow up visits.  These short-term consultants' services would amount
to 21 man-months and the total cost has been estimated at US$298,000. The
average cost per man-month (including salary costs, fees, international travel
and subsistence) has been estimated at US$14,200; this high level is due to
unusually high costs for services in Zaire, accentuated by difficult working
conditions and communications problems in the Project area.



- 16 -
4.12      Technical Assistance for Project Management.  Six internationally
recruited technicians would be employed under the Project to assist CODAIK
with the start-up of its operations. They would occupy the following posi-
tions: the general manager, three departmental heads, and two zonal managers
(para 4.08). In the selection process (para 4.35) preference would be given
to nationals possessing the necessary qualifications and experience and to
candidates with work experience in Kwango-Kwilu or in Zaire. The initial
contracts would be for a 20-month period except for the general manager who
would have a 21 month contract, or a total of 121 man-months for a total
estimated cost of US$1.3 million. If the Technical Assistance Project is
successful and is followed by another project, the individual contracts could
be renewed for an additional two-year period, and annually thereafter, and
the contracts would be drafted accordingly. Zairian nationals would be
selected for managerial positions as local candidates with the necessary
qualifications and skills became available. The average cost of technical
assistance has been estimated at US$10,700 per man month (including salaries,
fees, travel expenses, and allowances).
Training and Extension
4.13      The training objectives of the Technical Assistance Project are (i)
to upgrade the existing extension staff through a refresher training program;
(ii) to set up a continuous vocational training system; (iii) to test several
training methods in order to define the methods best adapted to the objectives
of the program; and (iv) to test the training capability of various existing
institutions, e.g. missions, and to determine whether and how they should be
strengthened. The training program of extension staff would cover all zones
included in the Project area; farmer training would be integrated into the
extension activities.
4.14      (a)  Refresher Training for Extension Staff.  Project management
staff would prepare a test for the members of the professional staff of ex-
isting agricultural extension and animal production and health services, to
evaluate the vocational training needs of each staff member, their perfor-
mance in the field and, in certain cases, to eliminate those members of the
staff who simply do not possess the minimum qualifications or necessary
skills. The refresher program would be structured to respond to different
levels of need: (i) four months of theory in the form of a one-month session
offered every three months over a full year, oriented to lower-level (A3)
staff members with minimal academic training but who possess the necessary
practical skills.  Each month of theoretical or classroom instruction would be
followed by two months of field work; (ii) two days of classroom instruction
over a period of one full year, designed specifically for staff members at
middle technical level (A2); and (iii) retraining in the form of refresher
courses held twice a month and oriented to staff members at higher technical
level (Al), designed primarily to introduce them to the extension methodology
to be used as part of the Project. The theoretical training could be con-
tracted by CODAIK to local training institutions; e.g., the missions, while
the practical training would be integrated into the extension activities. At



- 17 -
the end of each year of training, all level A3 and A2 staff members would be
required to take another examination. Their performance in the field would
also be assessed and taken into account in their final evaluation. By the
completion of the Technical Assistance Project, 60 Al and A2 level and 75 A3
level extension staff would have participated in this refresher training
program, which represents all the Al and A2 level and about one-fourth of the
A3 level technicians presently working in the two zones of Bulungu and Idiofa.
4.15       (b)  Vocational Training.  Under the Technical Assistance Project,
vocational training programs would be limited to the technical disciplines for
the extension staff of CODAIK, as a complementary activity to the refresher
training- program. Some preparatory work to extend the program to other
disciplines (management, accounting, personnel management) and to all staff
would be undertaken during the last six months of the Project period. The
vocational training program for extension staff would essentially entail:
(i) periodic meetings between zonal directors and sector heads, and between
sector heads and extension workers at the "collectivite" level to review
their performance and offer certain guidelines for use in implementing
recommended extension methods and in introducing new technologies; and
(ii) field trips to the Kiyaka research center when it is redeveloped and
short-term assignmencs to othf. re-earch stations or to stouckfarms sucn as
the Kazanza mission farm, plantations or other projects in Zaire or abroad.
Training in aquaculture would be provided at the Gandajika center in Kasai.
4.16      The major investments for the training activities would cover
the refurbishing of accommodations for trainees at the Kiyaka center (para
2.10) or at Lusanga (para 2.14), the purchase of necessary course material
and the operating expenses associated with the refresher or continuous
training programs.
4.17      The extension objectives of the Technical Assistance Project would
be to test the proposed technical package; to test various extension methods;
and to establish pilot extension centers in the Project area. During the
first year of operation, CODAIK's extension program will cover the zones of
Bulungu and Idiofa. If satisfactory progress is made during the first year of
Project implementation, the extension program would be extended to the zones
of Masi-Manimba and Feshi the second year; this increased coverage would be
proposed in the second annual work plan.
4.18      The Technical Package would involve:  farming methods, animal
husbandry, and aquaculture.
4.19            (i)  Farming Methods.  Extension activities under the
Technical Assistance Project would concentrate on developing simple and well-
known agricultural techniques that are likely to be adopted by large numbers
of farmers in the region (para. 3.05). These techniques would be combined
with simple soil conservation methods and would include the use of selected,
and possibly improved, seeds and plant material and the adoption of an appro-
priate cropping calendar and rotation, row planting, better spacing and
weeding, mulching and greater association with legumes. More advanced farmers



- 18 -
would be encouraged to use techniques such as ridging, contour planting,
application of organic fertilizer and anti-erosion strips. Foodcropping
would be limited to the less sloping land while the more sloping land would
be planted with eucalyptus or pine as an anti-erosion measure and to provide
firewood and timber for the rural population. These techniques would be
tested during the Technical Assistance Project. The major crops would be
manioc, maize, groundnuts, and rice in addition to some traditional crops
such as cucurbitaceae and the earthpea, a local pulse.
4.20      The Technical Assistance Project would test, with a few selected
progresive farmers, some of the long-term objectives of the farming methods
improvement program. Crop rotation cycles would be shortened to increase
the cropping intensity. More intensive farming methods would be introduced
such as ridging and terracing, appropriate mechanization (small tractors of
16-30 HP) or chemical fertilizers. New crops such as soybeans would be tried
in coordination with the appropriate research program (para 4.28).
4.21          (ii)  Animal Husbandry.  Animal husbandry would be integrated
into the farming system in order to produce manure for on-farm use as organic
fertilizer, recover agricultural waste, make optimal use of anti-erosive
fodder strips, and exploit underutilized upland savannahs. Individual farm-
ers would be encouraged to practice day-time herding and controlled grazing
of cattle on the savannah pastures, and supplementary feeding in night-kraals
with fodder and nutritional supplements such as mineral salts. The Ndama
breed only would be encouraged because of its resistance to Trypanosomiasis.
Regarding small stock, goat raising only would be encouraged, as poultry
and pigs compete for food with the population, and their promotion at this
stage of development cannot be justified. Goats would be kept tethered
to avoid crop damage.
4.22         (iii)  Aquaculture.  Aquaculture would also be integrated into
the farming system where possible. The extension agents would assist farmers
with fish pond site selection (which has proved a serious problem in the
past), or rehabilitation, construction specifications and maintenance,
soil and water analyses, and fish feeding. Tilapia Nilotica would be the
main species promoted.
4.23      The Extension Methods used under the Technical Assistance Project
would essentially consist of farm visits by the extension staff, the distribu-
tion of inputs, and the development of demonstration plots.  Each extension
worker would have a schedule of farm visits. Inputs such as seeds, tools,
fingerlings, and veterinary products would be made available by the Project
entity either from its own multiplication centers or purchased from other
sources, but would be sold to the farmer either on a cash or on a credit
basis. To procure other inputs, namely machinery, and breeding stock (cattle
or goats), the CODAIK marketing service (para 4.26) could serve as an inter-
mediary and they would be sold or leased to the farmers. Each extension agent
would be required to develop his plot as a demonstration plot; additional
demonstration plots would be developed by selected progressive farmers.
Farmers would also be encouraged to group themselves into associations
for the production of inputs, the marketing and storage of their crops
or for the development of fish farming, and cattle raising. Several such



- 19 -
associations already exist in the Project area, mainly for fish farming.
Other extension methods would be investigated under the Technical Assistance
Project in order to design proposals for later projects under the program,
in particular the possibility of developing a radio program on agriculture.
4.24      Pilot Extension Centers.  Under the Technical Assistance Project,
16 pilot extension centers would be developed, in eight "collectivites" in
Bulungu, and in eight "collectivites" in Idiofa, plus two sectoral extension
centers, one in Bulungu and one in Idiofa, in addition to the two zonal
offices. Each "collectivite" extension center would be staffed with three
A3 level extension workers, for crops, animal husbandry, and aquaculture.
The main investments per center would include (i) the construction of a small
office with an attached warehouse for inputs and a veterinary dispensary, a
treatment crush for livestock, a tree nursery, a multiplication center/demon-
stration field for crops; and a fish hatchery for fingerlings; (ii) the pur-
chase of inputs and equipment; and (iii) bicycles and incremental operating
costs. Sectoral extension centers would be staffed with two A2 level extension
staff, one agricultural technician, and an animal husbandry technician or
aquaculture technician.
Gungu-Katuta Cattle Breeding Ranch
4.25      Under the Technical Assistance Project the existing ranch at Gungu-
Katuta (para 2.15) would be developed from a full-cycle operation into a
breeding operation (para 3.06). The objective would be to produce breeding
stock which are in high demand by traditional sector farmers, and for which
the supply is extremely limited. The first steps would be the reduction of
the size of the herd, because of low productivity linked to pasture deteriora-
tion caused by past overgrazing, and pasture improvement. Part of the herd,
mostly males, would be sold in order to reduce the herd from about 900 head to
260 head. With the herd reduced, pastures could rest and be reestablished:
re-seeding of the most damaged ones would be necessary. The Project would
also aim to introduce improvements in the present animal husbandry management
system. All stock would be Ndama, which is resistant to trypanosomiasis and
more productive than the afrikander breed. Fertility testing would be used
for stock selection, and forage crops would be planted for supplementary
feeding in night kraals. Other basic animal husbandry practices, notably
mineral supplementation and regular tick-control dipping would be maintained.
The major investments would include the construction of the additional infra-
structure mentioned above, the purchase of equipment and spare parts (vehi-
cles, a tractor, motorbikes and bicycles), and the purchase of veterinary
products. Some minor repairs of existing infrastructure would be carried
out, as well as the construction of necessary additional facilities: staff
housing, a water distribution system and a dipping tank. As a breeding
operation, the Gungu-Katuta ranch could reach 950 head at full development
after 15 years, and more than 50 heifers and 50 bulls could be sold every
year to traditional sector farmers; steers would either be finished on the
ranch or sold to farmers for finishing.
Supporting Services and Infrastructure
4.26      Marketing Services and Infrastructure.  CODAIK's marketing con-
sultant (para 4.11) would assess the existing marketing system and infra-



- 20 -
structure in the Project area and review the pricing system for agricultural
produce, livestock and fish. He would then assist CODAIK's management with
the design of a marketing program, including a proper market information
system, a calendar and a system for operating rural markets, and means to
improve crop collection and storage. Several rural markets would be reestab--
lished and a crop collection system tried out by CODAIK in coordination with
the local administrative authorities. CODAIK would act as residual buyer to
guarantee farmers the sale of their produce. CODAIK would enter into prior
sales agreements with potential buyers, and would finance such crop purchases
with short-term loans from local commercial banks as is currently the the
practice of private traders. CODAIK could also assist selective 'collec-
tivites" or farmers' associations with the construction of rural storage
depots, and with the maintenance of feeder roads to facilitate their access
to markets or crop collection points. The main investments would include the
purchase of vehicles for the collection of crops, the construction of rural
storage depots, and the maintenance of some feeder roads. The incremental
costs for operating rural markets are included in CODAIK operating costs
(para 4.08).
4.27      Credit Services.  CODAIK's credit consultant (para 4.11) would
assess the need for credit in the Project area, review existing and potential
credit institutions, and assist CODAIK's management with the design of a
credit program. An experimental credit program would be set up in the 16
"collectivites" with pilot extension centers, principally to sell to farmers
input such as seeds, planting materials, tools, simple crop processing equip-
ment (rice hullers or manioc mills), and breeding stock. Credit could be
extended to farmers either on an individual basis or on a collective basis,
for example, through farmers' associations. Terms of credit to farmers would
also be reviewed by the consultant. A sum of US$150,000 for this experimental
credit program has been included in Project costs. The incremental operating
costs are included in CODAIK operating costs (para 4.08).
Applied Research and Studies
4.28      Applied Research.  CODAIK would establish an applied research
program to begin investigation of the crops, inputs (including fertilizer
and small mechanization), and fish species best adapted to the conditions of
the Project area. The research program would be limited in scope during the
initial period, and would focus on major crops and farming problems. Several
farming systems and sub-ecological zones would be defined, and a sample of
farms would be established in coordination with the extension program and
with other programs such as the Kiyaka research station, the PLZ subsistence
crop program in Lusanga (para 2.14) and the MPP program in Idiofa (para
2.12). This sample would serve as the basis for collecting statistical data
on production and productivity and developing a monitoring system for the
proposed farming system and extension methods. The information made avail-
able would be used to plan future agricultural development projects in the
area. As part of the applied research program, an aquaculture center
equipped with an analysis laboratory would be established at Kikwit. Fish
ponds trials with various fish species and feeding and fertilization tech-
niques would be developed as well as some river fishing trials. The main
investments would include (i) the purchase of inputs for the field trials,
mainly seeds, planting materials, fertilizer, and small mechanical equipment;
and (ii) the construction and equipping of the aquaculture center.



- 21 -
4.29      Studies.  CODAIK would undertake the studies necessary for the
preparation of future projects for the continued implementation of the inte-
grated agricultural and livestock development program (para 3.01). CODAIK
would hire short-term consulting services to assist its planning department
with these studies, in particular for the ranching development program. A
study on the economic recovery fund system would be carried out, separately,
by the Government.
Technical Assistance for the Ministry of Planning
4.30      IDA has been working closely with the Ministry of Planning during
the past two years on preparation of the Public Investment Program. As part
of this dialogue, the Government requested IDA's assistance in financing the
costs of a high-level macro-economic adviser who would reinforce the Ministry
of Planning's macro-economic planning capability and provide training to high
level Zairian staff. In an effort to respond quickly to the Government's
request, it was agreed during negotiations to incorporate this technical
assistance for the Ministry of Planning into the proposed Project; this
component would be implemented independently of the rest of the Technical
Assistance Project.
4.31      One high-level adviser, experienced in macro-economic planning,
would be employed under the Project as adviser to the Minister of Planning.
The adviser would be recruited for two years at a total cost of about
US$250,000; an additional US$50,000 would cover the cost of a vehicle, equip-
ment, and short-term consulting services. It was agreed during negotiations
that the qualifications of the consultant and the conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to IDA. The terms of reference and the work program
for the first year have been agreed with the Government.
E. Project Costs
4.32      Total Project costs have been estimated at US$5.9 million, including
US$3.9 million or 65% in foreign exchange. Items imported under the Project
would be imported free of taxes and duties, and Project cost estimates include
only negligible amounts of taxes corresponding to sales taxes on locally
procured goods. The following Table is a summary of these costs, with a more
detailed breakdown appearing in Table 1.



22
-US' $000       
Local          Foreign        Total
Currency       Exchange
I.    Establishment Phase
Technical Assistance                       69.0            173.0        242.0
Vehicles                                      1.0           40.0          41.0
Training and Extension                       30.0           70.0         100.0
Miscellaneous                                  -            17.0         17.0
Sub-Total Establishment Phase               100.0          300.0        400.0
II.   Implementation Phase
1.   Establishment of Development
Authority
Buildings                             105.0           45.0         150.0
Equipment and Supplies                 25.5          134.5         160.0
Vehicles                               11.0          208.1         219.1
Operating Costs                       279.5          183.5         463.0
Sub-Total                             421.0          571.1         992.1
2.   Technical Assistance
Short-term Consultants                 30.0          268.0         298.0
Project Management Team               184.8        1,086.2       1,271.0
Sub-Total                             214.8        1,354.2       1,569.0
3.   Training and Extension
Investments                           190.3           68.1         258.4
Operating Costs                       340.4           38.7         379.1
Sub-Total                             530.7          106.8         637.5
4.   Gungu-Katala Breeding Ranch
Investments                            53.5           86.5         140.0
5.   Support Services and Infrastructure
Marketing                              81.5          213.5         295.0
Credit                                 75.0           75.0         150.0
Sub-Total                             156.5          288.5         445.0
6.   Applied Research and Studies
Field Trials                           20.0           20.0          40.0
Aquaculture Center                     65.5          134.5         200.0
Studies                                30.0          120.0         150.0
Sub-Total                             115.5          274.5         390.0
7.   Study of Economic Recovery Funds          -           30.0          30.0
Sub-Total Implementation Phase           1,492.0        2,711.6       4,203.6
III. Technical Assistance for Ministry
of Planning
Technical Assistance                         25.0          225.0        250.0
Vehicles, Equipment, etc.                    10.0           40.0         50.0
Sub-Total Technical Assistance
for Ministry of Planning                 35.0          265.0         300.0
Total Base Costs                         1,627.0        3,276.6       4,903.6
Contingencies:
Physical                                    135.8          107.2         243.0
Price                                       261.4          490.0        751.4
Sub-Total                                   397.2         597.2         994.4
Total Costs                              2,024.2        5,7A            f,el.P



- 23 -
The Project cost estimate was based on December 1978 costs, adjusted to esti-
mated February 1981 price levels. A physical contingency of 10% was applied
to all Project components, excluding technical assistance, to reflect general
uncertainty about the detailed scope of Project investments. A price con-
tingency of 10.5% for 1981, 9% for 1982 and 8% for 1983 was applied on a
cumulative basis on the cost of all goods and services. It was assumed that
the progressive devaluation of the Zaire currency will compensate for increases
in local costs, according to Bank/IDA guidelines on the treatment of contin-
gencies for high inflation countries.
F. Project Financing
4.33      Project costs would be financed as follows:
US$ million       %
IDA                                                2.9           49
West German Government                              1.0          17
Zaire Government                                   2.0           34
Total                                          5.9          100
A detailed financing plan is included as Table 2.
4.34      The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 2.4 million (US$ Equivalent 2.9
million) would be to the Government of Zaire on standard IDA terms. The
Credit would finance about 50% of total Project costs, including about 75% of
foreign exchange costs. An advance of US$300,000 to the Government of Zaire
under the IDA Project Preparation Facility has been approved and has been
included in the IDA credit amount; the advance would be for the implementation
of the Project Establishment Phase (paras 5.12-5.13). The Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany will finance US$1.0 million equivalent (D.M. 1.6
million) as a grant to the Government of Zaire. Under parallel financing
arrangements, these funds will be used to finance three of the six technical
assistance specialists (para 4.11) for CODAIK, the training and extension
specialist, and the two zonal managers, the purchase of ten long wheel base
vehicles and spare parts, and the short-term aquaculture consultant's services.
The Zairian Government will contribute the equivalent of US$2.0 million to
Project financing. This contribution will be financed by budgetary alloca-
tions, agricultural funds ("fonds agricoles"), and economic recovery funds
administered by participating private companies (e.g., BRALIMA). Funds ear-
marked for the Project would be passed on to CODAIK either as a grant or as
the Government's share in the company's equity, under a Subsidiary Agreement.
CODAIK would open and manage a Project account with the Zairian Commercial
Bank in Kikwit, into which all the foreign and local financial participations
would be disbursed. CODAIK would submit the budget to the supervising Depart-
ments according to the schedule established by the Department of Finance for
the preparation of the national budget; each budget proposal would be supported
by an annual work plan (para 5.09). Government would pay its contribution to



- 24 -
the Project account at least once a year, at the latest by the end of the
first quarter. The initial working capital requirements for CODAIK have been
estimated at US$350,000, corresponding to about 25% of the first year budget
excluding the establishment phase and technical assistance costs; this would
be financed from the Government's initial contribution. Assurances on the
above were obtained at negotiations. The signature of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the opening of the Project account, the payment of Government's
initial contribution, and the fulfillment of all conditions required for
cross-effectiveness of the bilateral financing agreement between the Republic
of Zaire and the Federal Republic of Germany would be conditions of credit
effectiveness.
G. Procurement
4.35      The Government has requested proposals from three internationally
qualified firms to select consultants for the establishment phase (para 5.12).
The management specialist and financial specialist would be recruited from
outside Zaire, with the services of a lawyer contracted locally (para 4.10).
IDA would approve the contract with the consultants. Technical assistance for
Project management for CODAIK (para 4.12) would be recruited internationally
and employed either under individual contracts with Gesellchaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) or under direct contracts with the Government (including
possibly secondment arrangements with IDA), depending on the source of financing.
Alternatively, the Government might engage a consulting firm to provide all or
part of proposed technical assistance. GTZ and IDA would exchange information
on the terms and conditions of employment and assurances were obtained during
negotiations that IDA would approve final terms of reference and contracts for
all technical assistance staff. The identification and pre-selection of the
candidates would be made by the consultants for the establishment phase, and the
short-list would be submitted to both IDA and GTZ for approval.
4.36      For supplies of veterinary products, seeds, vehicles, farm equip-
ment and tools, capital equipment for offices, training and extension centers
and housing facilities, all contracts for amounts exceeding US$80,000 would
be awarded under international competitive bidding procedures following Bank/
IDA guidelines. Contracts for amounts less than US$80,000 for vehicles,
equipment and supplies, as well as all civil works contracts would be awarded
under local procurement procedures which were examined during appraisal and
are satisfactory; the Project management team should, however, inquire systema-
tically about the prices charged by major suppliers represented in Zaire and
check suppliers' after-sales and maintenance capacity. Assurances on these
procedures were obtained at negotiations.
H. Disbursements
4.37      Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed over a period of
two and a half years on the following basis:



- 25 -
US$-OOO
(a) 100% of total expenditures for the services of CODAIK-s
General Manager, the Administrative and Financial Director,
the Planning and Applied Research Director, and short-term
consultants                                                         845.0
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for vehicles, office equipment for CODAIK, and farm machinery
or equipment for the marketing, applied research, credit
and ranching components                                             470.0
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 40% of local expenditures
for civil works (offices, staff housing, training and
extension centers, and development of the Gungu-Katuta ranch) 290.0
(d) 65% of total expenditures for the construction and equipment
costs for the aquaculture center                                    135.0
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures for the studies                        120.0
(f)  100% of foreign expenditure for ERF study                            30.0
(g) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance for the
Ministry of Planning                                                300.0
(h)  Reimbursement of Project Preparation Facility Advance               300.0
(i)  Unallocated                                                         410.0
Total                                                             2,900.0
An estimated disbursement schedule is included as Table 3. Disbursements
against (a), (b), (e), (f) and (g) would be fully documented. Disbursements
for foreign expenditures in (c) and (d) would also be fully documented;
however, disbursements for local expenditure in (c) and (d) would be against
statements of expenditure, certified by senior management of CODAIK, the
documentation for which would be retained for inspection during project
supervision missions.
I. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
4.38      CODAIK would keep separate accounts and ledgers to justify all
Project activities. The accounting system would conform to the guidelines
of the Zairian Accounting Plan as required for all public or mixed capital
enterprises under Zairian law. Project accounts would be audited each year
by external auditors acceptable to IDA and a certified copy of all Project
accounts and financial statements, as well as the auditor-s report would be
submitted to the Association within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. The auditors would specifically review and comment on the procedures
used for control of disbursement against statements of expenditure. A copy of
all quarterly and annual reports prepared by CODAIK-s general manager for the
company-s board (para 5.08(i)) would be sent to IDA. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 26 -
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
General
5.01      The Agriculture and Rural Development Department and the Portfolio
Department would share the overall responsibility for supervising the imple-
mentation of the Technical Assistance Project. The State Secretariat for
Agriculture (para 1.06) would have the main coordination responsibility, while
the Portfolio Department would be primarily responsible for all the tasks
related to the establishment of CODAIK (para 4.07). Once established,
CODAIK would be the Project execution agent, and its general manager would
also be the Project director. The Government would entrust CODAIK with the
management on behalf of the Government of the sub-regional extension services
for agriculture, animal husbandry, and aquaculture, which would be headed by
CODAIK's training and extension director, and staff would be seconded to
CODAIK accordingly. CODAIK would contract some Project activities to
organizations already operating in the Project area. The participation of
local authorities would be assured through coordination with regional Economic
Development Councils (para 1.15), and that of the local population through
farmers' associations (para 5.10). The Government would execute the study
of the economic recovery fund system and the technical assistance component
for the Ministry of Planning.
The Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agriculture Development Company (CODAIK)
5.02      Legal Framework.  CODAIK would be established by the Government as a
mixed-capital company. CODAIK's initial equity would include the Government's
initial share of the paid-up capital and the other partners' participations,
either from share purchases or from contributions to the company of infra-
structure or equipment; the government could finance its share with the
economic recovery funds administered by BRALIMA (para 2.14) or with budgetary
allocations and agricultural funds (para 3.04). CODAIK would be incorporated
in accordance with Zairian corporate laws. Its basic organization would
follow the stipulations of Law 78-002 of January 6, 1978 on public companies,
also de facto applied to mixed-capital companies. The Board of Directors
(para 5.04) would replace the Government supervisory committee, normally
established to control the implementation of development agreements (para 1.13).
Its statutes would define its objectives, responsibilities, the role and
composition of its main bodies, and its main operational procedures such as
the annual work plans (para 5.09). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Company's statutes would be satisfactory to IDA and GTZ.
5.03      Some Project investments and activities would be subcontracted by
virtue of implementation agreements (para 1.12) between CODAIK and other
organizations (para 2.11-2.15). These agreements would stipulate: (a) the
technical standards to be adhered to during Project execution; (b) arrangements
for disbursement of funds and methods for monitoring the proper use of such



- 27 -
funds; (c) arrangements for supervision by CODAIK; and (d) the obligation
of sub-contracting organizations to provide CODAIK with quarterly progress
reports. These implementation arrangements would undertake on the basis of
strict criteria related to the technical and financial management capacity
of potential contractors and their willingness to comply with the standards
established by the Company. The accounts for all programs financed under an
implementation agreement with CODAIK would be kept separately; joint accounts
for these and other operations of the organizations would not be acceptable.
All such contracts would be for a term of one year, renewable at 12-month
intervals, and might be terminated at any time if CODAIK considered that
technical and/or financial performance was unsatisfactory. Implementation
agreements would be approved by IDA and GTZ as part of the annual work plan
review.
5.04      Organization:  CODAIK-s organizational structure would be as
follows (Chart 2): (a) Board of Directors. The Board of Directors would
have a minimum of five and a maximum of nine members. All directors would be
appointed by Presidential Decree. The law on public enterprises provides for
a term of office of five years, but since this would be a pilot Project, the
term of office of the original members of the Board would be two years. Since
the private enterprises contracting development agreements are responsible
for managing the economic recovery funds on behalf of the Government, the
Board would include both private-sector and Government representatives. The
voting power of each Board member would be determined by the respective number
of shares held in the Company's capital stock. The private-sector representa-
tives would include at least one representative from each company participating
in CODAIK and one representative from the local population who would be elected
from among the presidents of different farmers' and stockmens associations
and cooperatives in the Project area (para 5.10). Government representatives
would be nominated by the supervising Government Departments but could include
regional officials.  The regional director of agriculture for Kwango-Kwilu
should be a member.  The members of the Board would elect a Chairman by a
simple majority vote at their first session.  The Company's general manager
would participate in Board meetings in an ex officio capacity.  The duties of
the Board would be:
(i) to define and implement general Company policy, as well as
its management and operational policy;
(ii)  to appoint the general manager and approve the nominations
of department and zonal directors; and
(iii)  to approve the budget, annual work plan, the financial
plan, the Company balance sheet and financial statements,
the annual report, and all new short-term loans from com-
mercial banks and transactions over Z 100,000.
5.05      The Board of Directors would invest the general manager with all
powers necessary for him to manage the Company on a day-to-day basis. It
could also delegate specific responsibilities to the Management Committee or
individual committee members. The Chairman of the Board would attend meetings
of the regional or subregional Economic Development Committees.



- 28 -
5.06      The Board of Directors would be required to hold a minimum of ten
meetings during the Company's first year of operation. The Company's Secretary
and his staff would be responsible for preparing and keeping minutes of all
Board meetings.
5.07      (b)  Management Committee.  The Management Committee would include
the general manager, who would serve as chairman, the department directors
and the zonal directors. The committee would be responsible for the day-to-
day execution of decisions adopted by the Board. It would also serve as the
main coordinating mechanism for the various Company activities and day-to-day
operations, and would be expected to assist the general manager in preparing
the annual work plan and related documentation. The Management Committee
would normally meet not more than twice a month, with the general manager
authorized to convene special meetings at his discretion.
5.08      (c)  Administrative and Technical Management.  Under the Technical
Assistance Project, the Company-s administrative and technical management
structure would consist of its senior management, three specialized depart-
ments, and two regional offices.
(i) Senior management. The general manager would be responsible
for overall Company management, as well as for selecting
the department and zonal directors. He would plan, coordi-
nate, monitor and supervise all Company activities and
services. In addition to his operational planning and
supervisory functions, he would be responsible for defining
the terms of reference for each department, in collaboration
with the department directors, drawing on the advice and
recommendations of the Management Committee. He would
systematically review the progress made by each department
towards its respective goals each month on the basis of
documents maintained at company headquarters, as well as
through his field trips in the Project area. He would also
be responsible for building-up the company's technical and
managerial capacity. He would ensure liaison with the
local, subregional and regional authorities, as well as with
private organizations and government agencies interested in
or actively participating in the Project. The general
manager would visit each zone at least once a month and
would be expected to cover all sectors at least twice a
year, thereby formulating his own opinions of the problems
encountered in the field.
The general manager would be appointed by the Board of
Directors and would work in close collaboration with the Board
at all times. He would submit brief written monthly reports
to the Board of Directors outlining company operations and
progress made with Project implementation. At the end of
the first calendar year of Project implementation, he would
provide the Board with an annual progress report on previously
established Project targets and objectives, outlining
problems, the Company-s financial position and the annual
work plan for the following calendar year with related
documentation.



- 29 -
The internal audit unit would report directly to the general
manager. It would ensure the integrity of all technical
reports on work in progress, monitor the performance of sub-
contractors working under implementation agreements, monitor
technical or physical progress made in Project implementation
and verify trips made by personnel. It would also verify
accounts, physical operations, and financial transactions.
(ii) Planning and Applied Research Department. The main
function of this department would be to identify the most
appropriate production systems for the Project area. The
department would undertake three major activities -- planning,
applied research and monitoring, and studies.
The planning activity would consist of the design of new
production systems, as well as their physical and geographic
planning in terms of the physical and human resources to be
employed in their introduction and use. It would identify
optimal systems for the integration of farming, stock raising
and fish farming based on availabilities of local resources
and infrastructure.
Applied research and monitoring would consist of the design
and coordination of applied research programs, including the
development of trial plots, the design of sample production
systems for use in different ecological regions or subregions
within the Project area, data collection, and analysis of the
major variables in the different production systems (labor,
inputs, cost of inputs, yields, etc.) (para 4.28).
The studies would consist of the analysis and overall evalua-
tion of Project implementation, and the analysis of the various
constraints. It would also include the preparation of the
monthly, quarterly and annual reports to be submitted to the
Board of Directors, and feasibility studies for the further
implementation of the program (para 4.29). The Department of
Planning and Applied Research would be expected to work parti-
cularly closely with the Extension and Training Department,
which would be its major source of data and field trials.
(iii)  Extension and Training Department.  The role of this
department would be to improve existing systems of produc-
tion on the basis of the various guidelines and standards
defined by CODAIK. It would train extension agents and
local farmers, organize and manage specific services,
particularly animal production and health services,
and coordinate other services to farmers with CODAIK's
technical divisions such as agricultural credit and market-
ing. The Extension and Training Department would be divided
into three divisions: crops, animal husbandry and aquacul-
ture. Each division would be responsible for implementing
the company's training and extension program within its
respective field (paras 4.13-4.24).



- 30 -
(iv)  Administration and Finance Department.  This Department would
include two main divisions, for administration and finance.
The Administration Division would include the Secretariat,
the personnel management section, and the technical services
section. The Secretariat would keep the company s files
(official records, documents, minutes of Board meetings,
correspondence, contracts, etc.) and handle public relations.
The Secretariat would also handle legal work related to
the preparation of the implementation agreements to be signed
between CODAIK and sub-contracting organizations (para 5.03).
It would monitor the sub-contractors- performance, prepare
evaluation reports for submission to the general manager,
and the documentation necessary to settle possible disputes.
The personnel management section would prepare job descrip-
tions and specifications, and design procedures for use in
hiring Company personnel. It would be expected to develop
an in-house refresher training program for staff (apart from
the vocational training program) covering areas such as
administrative training, communications development, execu-
tive training, project management, budgeting and budget
management, etc. The goal of this program would be to
expand the career opportunities for employees both within
the Company and elsewhere. It is expected that services or
courses offered by the Institut d-Administration Publique
(Civil Service Institute) in Kinshasa would be used.
The technical services section would be responsible for the
management of mechanical services that would be hired by
farmers either for farming (e.g. land clearing) or for
simple crop processing (groundnut hulling, manioc or maize
milling). During the implementation of the Technical
Assistance Project, the Company would use garage services
available locally.
The Finance Division would include the accounting and budgeting
section, the procurement and marketing section, and the rural
credit section. The accounting and budgeting section would
prepare the company-s accounts, budgets, and financial state-
ments and projections. All expenditures exceeding Z 100,000
would be approved by the Board of Directors. A simple cost
accounting system for the Project-s principal activities would
be developed. The procurement and marketing section would
procure inputs for the extension service and manage their sale
to farmers. It would also be responsible for implementing the
Project's marketing activities (para 4.26). The rural credit
section would be responsible for implementing the Project-s
credit activities (para 4.27).
(v) Zonal Offices. The Company would have two zonal offices -- one
in Bulungu and one in Idiofa. The zonal directors would be



- 31 -
responsible for Project implementation in their respective
zones. They would administer the agricultural extension and
training services in the fields of crop production, animal
husbandry and aquaculture; supervise all organizations under
contract to CODAIK and, hence, be responsible for a portion of
the plan of operation; and ensure day-to-day liaison with the
local authorities and other agencies involved in Project imple-
mentation such as INERA, PNM and PRONAM (para 1.06). They would
be assisted by the zonal agronomist and veterinarian who, in
addition to their tasks under the proposed Project, would
also be expected to perform their current administrative duties
-- provide Project officials with information on Government
policies and objectives with regard to crop production and
animal husbandry; prepare agricultural and veterinary statistics
for zonal annual reports; issue transit permits for livestock;
and control stock slaughtering. Zonal directors would be
nominated by the general manager following their preselection
by the consultants for the preparatory phase, and appointed by
the Board of Directors. They would work directly under the
general manager but might report directly to the Board on the
status of the Project in their respective zones.
5.09      Annual Work Plans.  A detailed program for Project implementation
would be designed each year and set forth in the form of an annual work plan.
This system should enable the various parties concerned with Project implemen-
tation (the Zairian Government, the CODAIK Board of Directors and the external
financing agencies) to monitor all work in progress and to adjust the Project
design as experience is gained. Each annual work plan would be prepared by
the Planning, Studies and Applied Research Department based on proposals
submitted by CODAIK's zonal offices and technical departments. Annual work
plans would be studied and approved by the Company's Management Committee.
They would then be forwarded to IDA and GTZ for approval by November 1st of
each year. They would then be submitted to the Company's Board of Directors
for final approval, to be operational by January 1 of each year. Each annual
work plan would consist of the proposed Project investments and activities
for the forthcoming years, the company's investment and operating budgets, its
financial plan, and staffing requirements. It should further specify staffing
requirements including a detailed schedule of secondment and training of
Government extension staff as well as new staff to be engaged. Each work plan
would be supported by a technical, managerial and financial assessment of the
Company's and Project's performance. Assurances on the above were obtained
at negotiations.
Farmers  Associations
5.10      The Extension and Training Department would encourage farmers to
join forces through the organization of associations (or cooperatives) as
a means of mobilizing the local population for the development effort in
Kwango-Kwilu. These associations could be used to organize certain services,
including seed multiplication centers, animal production and health centers,
and the construction of depots for storing farm inputs or harvests. CODAIK
could build on the experience of several existing organizations in the



- 32 -
sub-region, such as the fish farmers associations of Kwilu, as well as in
other parts of Zaire, notably the pastoralists associations in Kivu and
Ituri.
B. Project Implementation Schedule
5.11      The proposed Technical Assistance Project would be implemented in
two phases over a period of approximately 24 months.
Project Establishment Phase (four months)
5.12      The establishment phase would be devoted to the preparation of legal
documents and instruments (articles of incorporation, development agreement,
company bylaws, Presidential Decree etc.), financial plans, arrangements for
capitalization of the Project implementing agency, etc. (para 4.07). By the
end of this four month preparatory period, the company should be legally
established, with a duly appointed Board of Directors and general manager.
The establishment phase of the Project would be implemented largely by the
Portfolio Department with assistance from an interdisciplinary team composed
of: a specialist in corporate organization and management assisted by a
national counterpart, a specialist in corporate finance assisted by a national
counterpart, a lawyer, and a technical staff member from the Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development. The team leader would be the specialist in
corporate organization and management; he would coordinate all team activities
including operational planning, define the strategy for company organization,
supervise the individuals responsible for preparing the final versions of all
documentation, and organise the recruitment of the general manager and the
preselection of the department and zonal directors. The corporate finance
specialist would prepare all the financial documents required for company
incorporation, the system for issuing company stocks, as well as the amount
and constitution of its equity (an indicative financial statement has been
prepared as Table 4). He would also define the principles of financial
management to be adhered to by the Board of Directors, and the financial
management system and practices to be followed by the company's administrative
and financial management staff. The lawyer would prepare prepare all legal
documents required for company organization, including company bylaws, legal
regulations concerning company stock, voting procedure, meetings, etc., in
collaboration with senior officials of the Portfolio Department. The team
would contact ONDE staff to benefit from their experience in establishing an
agricultural development company jointly financed by the national Executive
Council and IDA.
5.13      The Project establishment phase would be financed by the Government
with assistance of an IDA Project Preparation Facility advance (para 4.34).
Total costs have been estimated at approximately US$400,000, including fees
for consulting services and the cost of vehicles to be placed at the disposal
of the team of consultants. The vehicles would subsequently become company
property.



- 33 -
Project Implementation Phase (twenty months)
5.14      The first three months of the Project implementation phase would
be devoted to Project start-up activities. The general manager would make a
final selection of the company-s department and zonal directors, establish
the Company-s headquarters and administration, including department opera-
tional procedures, recruit the company's middle management and junior staff,
and prepare the first work plan. Additional administrative and technical
activities would include the purchase of office equipment, vehicles, and
didactic materials; the preparation of bidding documents for the construction
of Project infrastructure and for the start-up of the aquaculture center,
and credit and marketing studies (para 4.26-4.28). The general manager would
be assisted for two months by the organization and management consultant of
the establishment phase, and progressively by the department and zonal
directors as they joined CODAIK.
5.15      The following seventeen months would be devoted to the implementa-
tion of Project activities as described in Chapter IV. Ten months prior to
the completion of the Project, the Zairian Government, IDA and the Federal
Republic of Germany would prepare a joint evaluation of all operations and
achievements of the various institutions responsible for Project execution.
If it is then determined that Project performance has been satisfactory and
has established a sound basis for continued development, a larger-scale
project to be implemented over a period of approximately four years could be
appraised. The ten month period following the mid-term review should be
sufficient for evaluating such a large-scale project and identifying financial
sources since the technical work was completed as part of the preparation of
the Technical Assistance Project.
VI. BENEFITS, RISK AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.01      If the Technical Assistance Project were successful, the principal
benefit for Zaire would be institution building. The Project would have
initiated the development of an institutional framework which could be applied
not only for the development of agriculture in the Kwango-Kwilu, but also for
the development of other sectors there and elsewhere in Zaire. At the general
policy level of the central Government, the Project is expected to afford an
opportunity for several agencies of Government to join efforts and resources
to achieve a common objective. The Departments of Agriculture and Rural
Development, Portfolio, National Economy, Finance, and Planning would
collaborate to establish and support the proposed mixed-capital company. The
Project would also support the Government-s efforts to mobilize the private
sector, to tap its managerial capacity and to enable it to participate
actively in the national development effort. In addition, the Project would
test the recently established system of development agreements and economic
recovery funds and the system-s effectiveness as a channel of fiscal revenues
to finance investments and operating expenditures for development projects.



- 34 -
6.02      In the Kwango-Kwilu area, the Project is expected to initiate a long-
range planning and organizational effort for agricultural and economic develop-
ment. It would support the decentralization of development responsibilities
to the regions under Law 008 of January 1978 (para 1.15), promote coordination
between public and private development efforts, and decentralize agricultural
development responsibilities down to the individual farmer. This would be the
case, in particular, if farmers organized themselves successfully in associa-
tions (para 5.10). The Project would have also strengthened the agriculture
and livestock extension services, with more than one hundred extension staff
having participated in the Project refresher training program, and compre-
hensive extension services having been established in 16 "collectivites"
in the Project area.
6.03      In addition to institution building, the Project would be expected
to yield important technical benefits. Adaptive research would be renewed
as well as seed and plant material multiplication after an interruption of
more than ten years. An improved farming system would be tested, laying the
foundations for a long-term design. Because of the experimental nature of
the Project, no significant increase in agricultural production would be
expected, and therefore no economic rate of return for the Project was cal-
culated. However, if this Project were followed by a broad-based project, it
would have demonstrated the potential to improve the agricultural production
of a large number of farmers in the Project area.
6.04      In addition to strengthening existing institutions and bringing
technical improvements, the Project would also be expected in the long-run to
create new on-farm employment, raise income levels and improve the nutrition
of the farming population. Improved marketing channels would facilitate
communication with the isolated rural areas of Kwango-Kwilu. For the economy,
any improvement in agricultural production represents a savings of foreign
exchange expenditures.
Risks
6.05      Because of its experimental nature, the Project involves certain
significant risks. The context within which it is to be implemented is
highly complex. The Project can be implemented only if the Government is
firmly committed to it, taking specific steps to mobilize private sector
partners, hire short-term consultants for the establishment phase, and
establish an effective mechanism for coordination between the various branches
of Government. To offset this risk, the draft appraisal report was reviewed
with Government and potential partners at an early stage, and extensive
assistance was provided to the Government to speed up the recruitment of
consultants for the establishment phase. The success of Project operations in
the field will depend in large part on the motivation of the Project management
staff and on the confidence of local farmers in the extension staff. Very
selective criteria and procedures for staff recruitment have therefore been
devised, and performance in the field has been included among the criteria to
be applied by CODAIK for the final selection of extension staff. If Project
personnel are given the proper tools and are closely supervised, satisfactory
performance can be expected. Project financing, particularly the financing of



- 3.5 -
operating costs, is partially based on the system of economic recovery funds.
While this mechanism seems to offer at present the only guarantee for regular
transfers of fiscal revenues to the national agricultural development effort,
it is, nonetheless, a parallel fiscal system and there is no indication at the
present time of its long-term viability. Evidently, if the system of economic
recovery funds is abolished, the Technical Assistance Project could find itself
paralyzed, as experience has already demonstrated in the case of other ongoing
projects dependent on budget appropriations from the central Government. To
offset this risk, the Government gave assurances at negotiations that alter-
native sources of funds were available, notably budgetary resources and
agricultural funds (para 3.04). In addition, the Project annual work plans
with the supporting financing plan and planned intensive supervision efforts
should permit monitoring of the system and appropriate action to be taken.
6.06      Technical problems are not a major risk for this project.  Although
some recommended systems have not been fully tested in the Kwango-Kwilu
subregions, their basic soundness has been demonstrated elsewhere. All are
very simple technologies, partially practiced already by farmers in the area
and requiring only minimal external resources to be brought into the Project
area. The greater use of inputs such as fertilizer might be desirable in the
future but cannot be envisaged at present on a large scale given the
technological know-how and economic situation of the Project area farmers.
The major constraint to the adoption of the recommended methods, as in the
case of any agricultural development effort in rural Zaire, could be a
shortage of labor, due to the rural exodus and the substandard living
conditions in rural areas. To offset this risk Project activities will be
coordinated with other projects such as the UNDP/FAO project (para 2.11) which
are contemplating the establishment of health centers and recreation
facilities within the Project area.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
(a) that all funds earmarked for the Project would be passed on
to CODAIK either as a grant or as Government's share in the
company's equity, that the Government's annual contribution
to the Project account would be deposited at the latest by
the end of the first quarter of each year, and that CODAIK
would be able to utilize Economic Recovery Funds of partici-
pating companies (para 4.34);
(b) that IDA would approve final terms of reference and contracts
for all technical assistance staff (para 4.35);
(c) that procurement procedures would be as detailed in para 4.36
(para 4.36);
(d) that separate accounts would be maintained for all Project
activities and that auditing of accounts would be in accordance
with procedures detailed in para 4.38 (para 4.38);



- 36 -
(e) that copies of quarterly and annual reports prepared by CODAIK's
general manager would be forwarded to IDA (para 4.38);
(f) that CODAIK-s statutes would be satisfactory to IDA (para 5.02);
and
(g) that the Annual work plans would be submitted to IDA for approval
(para 5.09).
7.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) CODAIK, the Project implementation agency, had been established,
its statutes approved by IDA, and the General Manager appointed
(para 4.07);
(b) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CODAIK
had been signed (para 4.34);
(c) the Project account had been opened and the Government's
initial contribution of US$350,000 equivalent had been paid
up (para 4.34); and
(d) all conditions required for cross-effectiveness of the bilateral
financial agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany had been
met (para 4.34).
7.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDRs 2.4 million
(US$ Equivalent 2.9 million) to the Government of Zaire on standard IDA
terms.
April 15, 1981



ZAIRE                                                                                                                              al 
KWANCO-ggILU TECHISICAL. ASS ISTANFE 'REJECT
00020T D'ASSI15TANCR TECHNIQlOE AU KWANGO-KWIIAI
PROJOECT COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C~OUTY DS  FROtJET
Sea  1/A.... I                                          Yea  2,A-no  2                                                 Total Tota,l
Total        Loca  Corrct         Foe... EL hag           Tota         loca  C-r-n-         Foregn Exchange         Toa -  1      loclIorcc          Forign  Exchage            E
Total    NMonnaie nanionale           Reevec-            Total       Mannole naxltcnale        Devices~            Total       Mannaic natin.o            te_i-r           ___i__
0.  Esnahhishateme Phas                                                                                                                                                                                                                I.  Phase Ac  ic.. cmPIac
I.  Short- term consultants          ~~~~~~~~242.000   69,000                 173,000             ---242.000                                                                  6q,O001            173,000             71           ,.                   ......n. soot-et
2.   ciO   P-rhase seA Op-tinle                    41,000             1,000                 40,000            ---41 YEll                                                                    1,000             40,000              08          2.  AcheR  tc f-etie---e  nOhOcie..
3.  OcE--i-  and  T-icieg                         l0ll,ROR          3R,000                  70,000            --                                                      100,000              30,000             70,000              70          3.  FoemLittocetn-ig-cisatoe
A.  1lsnln'o   ieolgrc'  net                        7,000              -                    17.cc             --                                                       17,000                -                17,000             100 (            Fr '  diner. lyn-pe is
Sdb-tota                              400,1000         100 ,000                320,000            -                                         -             400000_51           111F R--           3000.000             75                       Total  Fa-s-e
0.  Ostolishmec  cE RUnclpsr-  Acxhn-tty                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.  Min  -c  Iacr  -eg-nt-c   Ac Ac-Iepen
c'ltdEng,                                 150,000          0O5,000                  45,000            -                  --                                   150,000            105,000              45,000             310                  Foinn t
tqcliesrl aod suplIes5000                                   14,100                 35,300           110,000             IIYOY                  9 0,000o      1060,000)            25,500             134,500             06                   En-lp-nnn   cbodtoe
Yc,nccad  oc   at                    7   0                 11167,9000                           42,400              2,Y'40,200                           210,10              11002010                                9Fhnie   tp$c    eeg
h.  Opr-ac-g nest                             17905000         109.500                  70.000          28j_500            j702000                113,900         463.000            j79_00                                   4003 .300                   d
550,700          237,000                 3110,400        4315,000            103,200                2152,700       007.100             4,21,00047 10
2.  TenhoialI A-nlctacc                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.       o  tcr    ehI
a.  Short-term cocci ltantc' cerntec  ~101 7,175 0  05,000                 1 33,350          150,250             15,000               135,250         200,000              30,000            26800,               00              a.SricIonlatnseor-xrm
b.  P-1-nt nic.geme.        -                 5a04,0009         73750                  430 250          767,000            121Q0(o                656,000       1.2 1000              184 750         ia.086j250              05              b.  F-oi,e A'-c-rdrcnet
651,750           o8,ooo                 s63,000          012,250            126,000                701,750      1,560,000             204,350           1,354.250
S,id lAOgn                                 51,000           42,000                   0,000          140,000            12,50                    0,500         105,000             176,500             10.300              10Fotrcin
Eqoipmeot                      ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~13,000  4,500    13,500           35,000              0:,150,               3625            53001,501,5                                                5                    qlpm
5,040              250                  4,700             5,320                 2 70                5,050          10,300                 520              9,0411            '0                   Fhco
0.  Operting ros90.260                                          88.430                 9.830           _:0_1806 0          2511000                .2 8,2P 9 Oo                        3 ,390j~            30_ 1730            10               . cx  Alotcec
170,300          14,036,120                              401,100             130,50 3R 0,300                        633,40             130,000
4,  KogoEaI.s  Secding Ranch                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.  I-ehc  d'lcirA   ingo-K-a1.t
nIldinge ,                                                           -                                   611,000             4 5,001'              15,000          40,000(             45,000              15,0cCu            25                 _   _        _
tI1lp-ot                                                 -                                               30,000               4,000                24,000          30,000               4,000n            24 ,000             00              Fqn"I""rcIs
VhiI clan                                       -                -                                                                                 473500           50,pQ0             JJ,jf0f            .500               95              V hlenien
140,000             53,scO                06,500         140,000              53,500              06,500
5,000      1,50~         ~        ~~~0 3,50        'o,SO               14,1001R)              4,000          25000               1 5,100              9,500             30lneircon
Vehicles                        50,000            2,5011                 47,500           10,000               3,5001                hnA66500      2'0,000               4,000            11,100               05                   Vch iI-r
Feeder road nuceae                          0,000           20,000                  30.0(10         100,001,            40004100                              1001                  000Oald60                                                 EtiesIrcn-co   c  enet
A.  CredO,                          ~~0,0.000         i&J22Q                  2&.PQQ          12f0.200             6 5 00 _500                          10002   0 00000                                              0b.  COR
125,000           34,000                 91,000          320,000              2_'o                   '197,500       445000T,'00                            200,500
6.  Ab,Iled R--eth and Stod-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.  K-ch-ehc  'armooee    tnoe
A,,0p1led  -ei--c                            10,111             ,1115,000                              30, ('10            15,000                15,2000         40,000u             20,000              20,000             50              a.Rehe-he d'art-opegnne
A'qan_In..c Ceter              ~            5 00             0 500wi                 4,500          Ins, 1(01            5 5 ,1(1]             I3c ,<0l'      210, 00              4350 'go           1$4, 5100           03 7eteed'a....ie
b.  Scudle,                                                                               -             1"O.00o            ,j0,po                 120.000         1 50.000             30,000            120,000              800.  Etudes
25,000           11,500                   0900o         365.000             l00,000               265,000          390,000            115,500l            274,500
7.  OmAn~ OF-rooml  R-co-e  Foods                30,000              -                    30,000              -                  -                      -             iF(.3,()inn                                                           7.  Fintds do ,'t,tss  An tunAs As resc.-
Snh-Tete1                                   1,564,250          5110,230              1,040,020        2,030,330            975,680              1,663,650       4,703,580           1,401,010          2,701,677                             rTota   Carte
ITT.  Teeheisl AesItece-  foe the                                                                                                                                                                                                                TTI Asi,ne  chieegx
2,   :e,Iee  AeeRsts...e                             0333              01                      3                ,'                 'S''                                 5''."                                    "7                 01,  A-n se.ce....               lo
2. Sclls. rqnRen, ee-                       _50,0(00          1.2'"                                                                                .             ,"'1                                                       o         ,2ciot,ecosc.ec
1133,40           1''                    '50               5'                                         ""0           'r0c   o
Total Nice Costs                            2,097,550          03   3'c                      O'       2,8000030             992,380             1,813,650       4,003,500           '   '-1~                                                    oa  'o,,ts dc  en
Phynl-al                                        66,252           45,050                  20,402          176,715              39lSY                 06,7 30        25    30                  1)              'l, 13              ~-                        ld       - -
Frie_                                          187,720           59.620                _17S10            56O3i,710           201,765               36  L945        _51,430.            26,8               4iiliP4S                             Dd-xe          c  pci~
253,375          105,470                 140,500          040,420            29 1 ,745             440,625          45, 340,           342,215             597,175
Total Foesi                                       2,35 1,5720        ','' =                                 3,540,,50          1,204,125             2"6" ,3'S       5,032,975 0a   'i
M-rn  26, 14981                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !,'6 00)51



- 38 -                                               Table 2
ZAIRE
KWANGO KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJET D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE AU KWANGO-KWILU
ESTI}ATED FINANCTNG PLAN                                                                              PLAN DE FINANCEHENT ESTIMATIF
(US$ '000)                                                                                                (US$'000)
IDA      PRG                   GOZ                    Total
Establishment Phase                                                                               Is      Phase de mise en place
Short term consultants                173.0     -                    69.0                    24 2.0    Consultant a court terme
Vehicles                               40.0      -                     1.0                    41.0    Vehicules
Training and Extension                 70.0     -                    30,0                    100.0    Formation et vulgarisatton
Miscellaneous (including               17.0     -                      -                      17.0    Prais divers (y compris
recruitment costs)                                                                                     recrutement)
Sub-Total                             300.0                         T                        400.0    Total partiel
II.  Implementation Phase                                                                              TT.    Phase d'execution
1. Establishment of Company                                                                            1. Mise en place de la compagnie
Buildings                          45.0      -                   105.0                    150.0        Constructions
Equipment and supplies            134.5      -                    25.5                    160,0       Equipements et fournitures
Vehicles and spare parts            -      220.0                    -                     220,0       Vehicules et pieces detachees
Operating costs                     -      138.0                 325.0                   463,0        Couts de fonctionnement
17T.5   3780                  455.5                   T9.
2. Technical Assistance                                                                               2. Assistance technique
Short term consultant                                                                                 Services consultants a court-
services                       238.0    6Q.0                    -                     298,0          terme
Project management team           771.0   500.0                    _                   1,271,0        Equipe d'encadrement
rou9.6r  560.o                     -                   M6
3. Training and Extension                                                                             3. Formation et vulgarisation
Buildings                          20.0    -                     175.0                    195.0       Construction
Equipment                          40.0    -                      13.0                     53.0       Equipement
Vehicles                            10.0    -                      0.4                     10.4       Vehicules
Operating costs                    40.0    -                     339.1                    379.1       Couts de fonctionnement
r uTU                         3                        U377
4. Gungu Ratuta Breeding Ranch                                                                        4. Ranch  d'elevage de Gungu-Katuta
Buildings                          15.0    -                      45.0                     60.0       Constructions
Equipment                          24.0    -                       6.0                     30.0       Equipement
Vehicles                           47.5   .                        2.5                     50.0       Vehicules
86.5    -                     53.5                    140.0
5. Support Services &                                                                                 5. Services et infrastructure
Infrastructures                                                                                       d' appui
Marketing                                                                                             Commercialisation
Infrastructure                    -       -                    25.0                     25.0          Infrastructures
Vehicles                        114.0    -                       6.0                    120.0         Vehicules
Feeder road maintenance          90.0    -                     60.0                    150.0          Entretien routes de desserte
Credit                           75.0    -                     25.9                   i150.           Credit
279.0                         166.0                    445.0
6. Applied Research and Studies                                                                       6. Recherche d'accompagnement et etudes
Field trials                       20.0    -                      20.0                     40.0       Essais sur le terrain
Aquaculture center                134.5    -                      65.5                    200.0       Centre d'aquaculture
Studies                           120.0    -                      30.0                   150.0        Etudes
274.5    -                    115.5                    390.0
7. Scud, of  Ecoic Recovery Fuds 30.0                                  -                      30.0    7.    de        ster  do foods de relence economiaue
-ub-Total                           1 Sc  5   10                   1 318.0                 4,214       T otal Partiel
III. Techntcal Assistance for                                                                         III. Assistance technique pour le
the Mintstry of Planning        300.0    -                      -                      300.0          Comsissariat general as Plan
Sub-Total                          2 568.5   918.0               1418.0                  4,q04.5    Total Partiel
Non-Allocated                        331.5    82.0                  582.0                    995.5    Non-alloues
Total                              2,900.0 1000.0                2,000.0                  5,900.0    Total
March 26, 1981                                                                                        Le 26 mars 1981



Table 3
- 39 -
ZAIRE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJET D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE AU KWANGO-KWILU
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Calendrier Estimatif des Decaissements
IDA Fiscal Year                     Cumulative Disbursement            Ann4e Fiscale de
and Quarter                          at End ot Quarter             1'IDA et Trimestres
Deboursements cumules
fin de trimestre
(US$'000)
1981
June 30, 1981                                   45.0 I/                  30 juin 1981
1982
September 30, 1981                            275.01-l                   30 septembre 1981
December 31, 1981                             500.0                      31 decembre 1981
March 31, 1982                                 750.0                      31 mars 1982
June 30, 1982                               1,025.0                      30 juin 1982
1983
September 30, 1982                          1,300.0                      30 septembre 1982
December 31, 1982                           1,600.0                      31 decembre 1982
March 31, 1984/                             1,900.0                      31 mars 19832,
June 30, 1983-                              2,230.0                      31 juin 1983"
1984
September 30, 1983                          2,550.0                      30 septembre 1983
December 31, 19833/                         2,900.0                      31 decembre 19833/
1/  These disbursements are advances from              1/  Ces decaissements Droviennent de
the Project Preparation Facility; the                  l'avance de fonds pour la pre-
estimated date of Credit effectiveness                 paration du projet; la date prevue
is October 15, 1981.                                   pour 1'entree en vigueur du credit
est le 15 octobre 1981.
2/  Expected date of Project completion                2/  Date prevue pour l'achevement
du projet
3/  Closing date                                       3/  Date de cloture
March 17, 1981                                                 le 17 mars 1981



ZAIRE
KW_CG4-KWILU TECUNLCAL 6S LSTANCE PROJECT
Indicative F'inancial Statement/Etat financier indicatif
-------- Year l/Annee 1------          ------Ycar 2/Annme 2-                  --- Years 1-2/Annees 1-2----
Local       Foreign                    Local       Foreign                     Local       Foreign
Total     Currency     Exchange        Total     Currency     Exchange         Total     Currency     Exchange
Monna4e                                Monnaie                                 Monnaie
Total     Nationale     Devises        Total     Nationale     Devises         Total     Nationale     Devises
- -         usS °°'000- -----u-$                   Us°-0 (000 - - -   - -UsS  00
FIXED ASSETS                                                                                                                                [MMOBILISATIONS
Buildings                1770         117          53           2'15          69          '36           375          186          189       Constructions
Equipment and Tools    70              15          55            110          11           99           180           26'         154       Materiel et outillage
Transport Equipment   245              14         231            112           5          107           357           19          338       Materiel de transport
485          146         339           427          85           342           912          231         681
SUBVENTION                  143           86           57           740         291          449           883           377         506    SUBVENTION
CONTINGENCIES               284           105         179           495         247          248           779           352         427    IMPREUS
WORKING CAPITAL          1i249           363          886         1.762         677        1,085         3,011         1,n40       1,971    FONDS DE ROULEMENT
iL676          554       1,122         2,99 7      1215         1,782         42            1,769
TOTAL COSTS                              7001 700  1              3424        1300         2A124         5,585        2 000        35       TOTAL COUTS
SHARE CAPITAL                                                                                                                              CAPITAL ACTIONS
Nominal                2000         2000         _5_                        0=0 2,000                 2,000        2000-                    Nominal
Subscribed              700           700         -           1 300       1,300          -           2,000        2,000          -         Souscrit
GOVERNMENT CAPITAL          475          -           475           525         -             525         1,000          -         1,000    DOTATION
CONTRIBUTION            986           -           986         1,599         -          1,599         2,585           _         2,585
LOAptl5T   1980_Le -                                                                                                                       EaPRUNTS A LONG TERME 1
April 15, 1980                                                                                                                Le 15 avril 1980



- 4,1 -
EARIT/DIAGCBAME 1
ZAI RE
KWANGO - KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
rplepentnion Sdcdule
1981                                                  1982                                                1983
FE8-MAVY| J | JI     | A         0    N   0    J   F]  M   A   M                      | 1 1 S I |NID           I I  M   A |M |            J|A
1 P roasorV Pha.e                                              _  _                                              - _  __J                          _ __.  _  _
Pwostr Ph.s.s                                                     mrlsrrnsrion h.s
-P-ep n#io- Bdd,ngD - -Onrsofs
-T.d,., Subi-srods Bd DAv-                        *   _
-rivp nalio of Pdsorarn     h                                                      b-R          
b)                            Ph-.nosro  fP.oXr  r.
-Eb# buisnor DOmf    n                                        _    _ o*O
ARomimnreGt Of Garerl MMMarn|
2 Impl msfion Pha
a    - d  -oruir.nr of Msnoen S,RftIff
-F-1l0rr M- U
-Bosr A-Oroa
-Arrji0Fif-noiOi,0-0
-Orbs, T5Ca,.ai Ass-tnt
Trs,niroinGsrmnV   wry                                                                                                               l ll                             
Tor,. of RbfeEeno . h for peof, Osomno                               ¢-   T|
|   * EeO.fOisfirnnt of Aarrirhtr#lnt                                          t     t                                            I         I    I         I         I             
E, bonoa-fAnWo           -no                                                    MI
| Work PraMr for Eseh D"--nito-
|       oui movnoth .0 dTraimnin  too Loia
Ofs -f
|       rdCdfsTs,fiiosl MaosgsnisrO                                                                               1 
P-T5,k. .,   k
5,0 Cedir Sri.dis
hb Sh-n Tan Con1I-is_- s  \t
MO-pag.nW-rr Es n                                                                                                                                                       |
-F.W0 WOrk                                                                                    0MM 
V-. p Wr1dig                                                                                     m 
|     Ii  W,kclu                                                                                    Impnomll l l l l          -|           l    l |4                l    
-Sooavr,o of fnrprnemsriorl                                                                           |     :                             l l       l l     
U. .sk Soin - n, G           o K.-
-Freld Vitin                                                                                                                     e
-Coos-rnO T,.-Wrr sAPts
-Al ardA2                                                                                                                                              
0   *AqunoulTunDnvr           l                  l   l   l           l         l   l    l    l    l   l           1   1    1    1       1|1         1    1~~~25_  1   1   1   
F.-53 A     -  _-                                                                                                                 =         -    o    .   U
-0-UOOei-o f*    * d.*                                                                                                                                             1
-OurIdirgo                                                                         .   -   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mm   IMM Woo         MIU. .   
World Brk - 21532



-  4.2  -                                                    CHART  2
ZAIRE
Technical Assistance Project
Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agriculture Development Company
Organization Chart
Portfolio                   RuralDeveopmentl
Department                       Deprtent
Imm__ - ___mm
I ~         ~           ~            ~            a
| Management and                                                                                        Regi.n.1 
Finani                                      Board of Director_                           Economic Development|
Plann  n                                        Training and                                                                                             Adninistrati.e
Applied Research                                   E.tension                                                                                                and Financia
Department                                       epartment                                                                                                Department
- Planning
- Applied Research
- Monitoring and
Studies
Crop   Animal   |   Aquacu tume                                   Administrative                    nance
Production            Husbandry                                                                                       si                        Dwision
-Secretariat        I                   Seto
- Technical Section   I   I   Marketig   d
-Personnel Manage-           R upplCdieSctio 
L     ment Section      |      -Rural Credit
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                  -      -     -     L  _   _- io
Ouua| ther Eventual rr                 Bulunqu         |        aIdn
Gu.gu-Katut. R.nch                      ZAssciatons                issiOfMisce
h     Zonal Offices                                                                                                        W     Zonal Office  I    
*Other zonal offices will be established eventually inye.,r2                                                                                                            Yiorld Bank- 21bSO0



- 4 3-
ZAIRE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                              CMAT/DIAGRAMM  3
KWANGO-KWILU INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT COMPANY AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
|                                  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURE ANDI
FORTFOLIO                                    ~~~~~~~~~~RURAL DEVELOPMENT1
DEPARTMENT~~~~~~Ir                                        DEPARTMENTI
REGIONAL ECONOMIC
BOARD OF DIRECTORS    - - - - _-         - -                   DEVELOPMENT
;COUNCI L
TI NAGEMENTH          W      ES E               MANNREN
M R   AFINANC
I MANA=GEMENT
LCOMMITTEE|
MONITORING~ ~ ~ ~EN                   UPPL DEATETISHTMETADF ACA
EVALUATION         _    PCULTURE                  WAREHOUSF                                         SECRETARIAT
DIV ISI ON              DIV ISION
|   KGATNGUTA-|| FESHI ZONAL | | MASI MANIMBA | F    WULUNGU ZONAL    IDIOFA ZONAL      OTHER ZONAL
|   RANCH    I I   OFFICE   | I ZONALOFFICE      OFFICE           OFFICE           OFFICES I
DIV ISIONIPLANTATIONS
COOPERATIVE       JUMA        AVANGA        LEVER DU             MOUVEMENT OU
ONPV        SOCIETIES |    MISSION    |  MISSIO      I   ZAIRE   )    I PRGRES POPULAIRE |World BanOFFICE



- 44 -
ZAIRE
KWANGO KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
List of Documents Available in the Implementation Volume
ANNEXES
1     The Project Area ................................
Table 1       Total Areas and Production of Main Crops Culti-
vated in the Bulungu and Idiofa Zones  ............
2     Mixed Farming Development .o.m. .........  ....... ......
Table 1       Model IA - Without Project.......
Table 2       Model IB - Without Project      e
Table 3       Model IIA - With Project - Crops and Fish Pond
After 10 years ........
Table 4       Model II A - With Project - Crops and Fish Pond
After 10 years ..........................      .
Table 5       Model IIB - With Project - Crops and  Small
Livestock - After 10 years....
Table 6       Model IIC - With Project - Crops and Large
Livestock - After 10 years 
Table 7       Model IIIA _ With Project - Crop Production on
Ridges and Fish Culture - After 10 years 
Table 8       Model IIIB - With Project - Crop Production on
Ridges and Small Livestock - After 10 years.
Table 9       Model IIIC - With Project - Crop Production on
Ridges and Large Livestock - After 10 years.
Table 10      Model IV - Crops and Large Livestock (Medium
Farmers - fermiers) Full Development.
Table 11      Herd Projection for Models IV (stable herd of
8 cows) and V (stable herd of 80 cows).
3     Existing Livestock Production Systemr
Table 1       Model VI - Herd Composition of 1000 head cattle
Ranch at Gungu-Katutat
Table 2       Model VI - 1000 Head Cattle Ranch at Gungu-Katuta
Investment Costst
Table 3       Model VI - 1000 Head Cattle Ranch at Gungu-Katuta
Annual Operating Costs.
Table 4       Model VII - Herd Projection for the Gungu-Katuta-
Katenga Ranch on 60,000 ha.
Table 5       Model VII - Breeding Ranch at Gungu-Katuta-Katenga
on 60,000 ha- Annual Operating Costs.
Table 6       Model VII - Breeding Ranch at Gungu-Katuta-Katenga
on 60,000 ha - Investment Costs ...................



- 45 -
ANNEXES
4     Fish Production       t
Table 1    Cost Benefit: Analysis of Increasing Stages of
Intensification
Table 2    Nutritional Value of Various Crops and Average
Yields in Crude Protein, Fat and Carbohydrates
in Zalre per unit area 
Table 3    Rivers and Tributaries in the Two Project Zones
Table 4    List of Fish Species found in Rivers of Project
Area .
Table 5    Model I - Application of Green Manure only .
Model 2 - Application of Green Manure and Cow Dung
Model 3 - Application of Model 2 and Fish Food ...
Table 6                                            eodels..
Models ...
Models .
5        Table 1    Cost Estimates for Extension and Training - Capital
and Operating Costs.
6        Agricultural Research.
Table 1    Cost Estimates for Applied Research
7 Marketing.






17  REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE                                       .CSIr  C
KWANGO-KWILU
IiINTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAROJLT DC' 9C Vt!Z0PPELMENT AGROPASTORAZ INTEGRE                      -orIID
P~EtTPLE S                                           DU KWANGO-KWiILUZR
A   /       V    9  C   M   B   E
K     T H  NE     A\-
~~~~~~~~~~~~  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-  214d dl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-b
B PAr 5 -Z    IR 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
PAi l
~~~~ peojern ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-
Thoeroreh drt a0de 4
AW
C                                                               >
L,eA'* di -Og. 
;*em o"rfdetIn
ow-fe   my0C fr
CqrCnoC borC                               L47CCC    OC                        I   0
ICefior ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 09 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~~  
NernCr,Cnor CCIp9O~~~~~~~~~~~roO  Mt CO  CC   ~       '4      ia 



