Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3057-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
i 1.00 = SDR 0.2625
US$1.00 = X 2.9
Z 1.00 = US$0.34
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CODAIK  -   Compagnie pour le Developpement Agricole Integre du Kwango-Kwilu
(Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agricultural Development Company)
FAO     -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
GTZ     -   Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
(Technical Cooperation Association - Germany)
ONDE    -   Office National pour le Developpement de l'Elevage
(National Livestock Development Office)
PLZ     -   Plantations Lever au Zaire
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/   Since February 22, 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:             The Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Agricultural Development
Company (Compagnie pour le Developpement Agricole
Integre du Kwango-Kwilu, CODAIK).
Amount:                  SDR 2.4 million (US$2.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         The proceeds of the Credit would be transferred to
CODAIK by the Government of Zaire partly as a grant
and partly as the Government's share in the company's
equity under a Subsidiary Agreement.
Project Description:     The objective of the Project would be to establish
and start the operations of a subregional development
authority, CODAIK, in order to provide the institu-
tional framework for the implementation of a long-term
development program to increase foodcrop, livestock
and fish production in the Kwango and Kwilu subregions.
Under the Project, a technical package and an implemen-
tation approach which could be applied to possible
future projects in the area would be tested and
evaluated. The Project would involve the private
sector in the management of smallholder agricultural
development in the region, and would draw on the
experience and coordinate the efforts of Government
services, industrial and commercial enterprises,
private organizations (in particular religious
missions and farmers' associations) and bilateral and
international agencies already involved in the
agricultural development of the area. The project
would be implemented in two phases: a four month
establishment phase to set up the implementation
agency and a twenty month phase which would include
the following main components: (i) establishment of
a training and extension system for the Project area;
(ii) development of a cattle-breeding ranch; (iii)
establishment of supporting services and infra-
structures for marketing and agricultural credit;
(iv) applied research and studies; and (v) technical
assistance for the Ministry of Planning. The princi-
pal benefit of the Project would be institution
building. Because of the experimental nature of the
Project, no significant increase in agricultural
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
.J



production can be expected in the short run. However,
if successful, the Project could lead to broad-based,
comprehensive projects for agricultural and livestock
development in Kwango-Kwilu. The institutional
arrangements could be ultimately replicated in other
agricultural development projects in Zaire. The
Project involves significant risks: it can only be
successful if the Government mobilizes private sector
partners, hires qualified technical assistance and
establishes effective coordination among the Depart-
ments responsible for its implementation, and if the
Project staff is highly motivated and obtains the
confidence of local farmers and of the organizations
already operating in the area.
Estimated cost:                           Local         Foreign
(net of import taxes and duties)          Currency     Exchange         Total
-----(US$ million equivalent)-----
I.  Establishment Phase                     0.10         0.30            0.40
II. Implementation Phase
1.  Establishment of Development
Authority (Infrastructure         0.42         0.57            0.99
and Equipment)
2.  Technical Assistance                0.21         1.36            1.57
3.  Training and Extension              0.53         0.11            0.64
4.  Gungu-Katuta Breeding Ranch         0.05         0.09            0.14
5.  Marketing and Credit                0.16         0.29            0.45
6.  Applied Research and Studies        0.12         0.27            0.39
7.  Study of Economic Recovery Fund       -          0.03            0.03
System
8.  Technical Assistance for the        0.04         0.26            0.30
Ministry of Planning              _
Total Base Cost                             1.63          3.28           4.91
Contingencies:
Physical                                    0.14          0.10           0.24
Price                                       0.26          0.49           0.75
Sub-Total                           0.40         0.59            0.99
Total Cost                                  2.03          3.87           5.90



- iii -
The establishment phase is being financed under an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility. The Government's contribution to the Project would
be financed through budgetary allocations, agricultural funds ("fonds
agricoles") and through the system of economic recovery funds, whereby funds
from the collection of special charges are earmarked for priority develop-
ment projects.
% of
Local    Foreign   Total    Total
Financing Plan
---(US$ million equivalent)----
IDA                                     -       2.9       2.9     49
Federal Republic of Germany                     1.0       1.0     17
Government Contribution                 -
(through Economic Recovery Funds    2.0        -        2.0     34
budgetary allocations and agri-
cultural funds)
Total                             2.0      3.9       5.9    100
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                          FY1981    1982    1983      1984
----(US$ million equivalent)----
Annual                               0.1       0.9    1.2       0.7
Cumulative                           0.1       1.0    2.2       2.9
Rate of Return: not applicable
Appraisal Report: No. 2824-ZR, dated April 15, 1981.
MAP:               IBRD 14469






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR THE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit 'to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 2,4
million (US$2.9 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Kwango-Kwilu
Technical Assistance Project. The Federal Republic of Germany would provide
parallel financing for the project in the form of a grant of US$1.0 million
equivalent through the Technical Cooperation Association (Gesellschaft fuer
Technische Zusammenarbeit, GTZ).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum (Report No. 2158-ZR) was distributed
on October 19, 1979. An economic mission visited Zaire in October 1980; its
report will be issued shortly. The period since the preparation of the
last report has witnessed a number of important developments regarding Zaire.
A stabilization program, supported by a Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF, was
adopted in August 1979 and implemented in 1980. Debt rescheduling agreements
were concluded with the Paris Club and the syndicated banks and have been
substantially respected. A three-year (1979-81) public investment program
was completed in September 1979; it has been partially executed to date; a
follow-up program for the period 1981-83 was approved recently. In addition,
some of the long-advocated institutional changes are now in place. The
economic situation, performance and constraints of Zaire were reviewed at a
meeting of the Consultative Group in May 1980; at that meeting, most donors
indicated that if Zaire continued on the path of institutional and policy
reform, they would be prepared to expand their assistance. These developments
and others, as well as the findings of the October economic mission, are
reflected below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and
the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated
at about US$260 in 1979, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approxi-
mately one-third of its population of about 27 million live in urban areas,
and the population density is 11 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been
proceeding at a rate of nearly 8 percent per annum, or more than twice as fast
as the growth of population. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsis-
tence) normally accounts for 25 percent of GDP, it provides employment and
income for more than three-quarters of the population. The mining- and mineral-
processing industry normally accounts for about 24 percent of GDP; it has been
traditionally the largest source of public revenue and provides more than
two-thirds of the country's export earnings. (The shares cited are 1977-79
averages.)



-2-
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years follow-
ing independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe disrup-
tion of the economy; but after the restoration of political order and stability
in 1967, the gross domestic product grew by about 7 percent in real terms
annually until 1974. Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious
economic difficulties, which have brought about an almost continuous decline
in aggregate output.
5.        Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among. these are: the progressive accen-
tuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by the
relative neglect of agricultural production; the failure to follow an anti-
cyclical reserve policy from the beginning of the last copper cycle; heavy
external borrowing during 1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms
inconsistent with Zaire's level of development and for projects with long
gestation periods and uncertain economic benefits; and the attempt to dras-
tically change the ownership structure of the economy through the zairianiza-
tion and "radicalization" (nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though
rescinded since, the zairianization and nationalization measures had parti-
cularly adverse and lasting effects on the economy: they seriously damaged
private sector confidence both at home and abroad, severely disrupted the
transport and marketing links between urban centers and the interior, and
resulted in the neglect of the country's productive capacity and infrastruc-
ture. The deterioration of Zaire's terms of trade in 1975, owing largely to
the fall in the international price of copper, was a major contributor to both
the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.        During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's com-
mercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms; the Government ran
large-budgetary deficits; domestic prices quadrupled; the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year; and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but
these could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.        In 1978, domestic and external financial imbalances persisted and
economic activity continued to decline. Commercialized GDP in real terms
contracted by 6.8 percent due to: adverse weather conditions; the acute shortage
of inputs in the agriculture, industry and transportation sectors; and the
fall in Gecamines' output resulting partly from the events which took place in
the Shaba province in May and partly from the unattended rehabilitation needs
of the company. Owing to a 37 percent increase in current expenditures,
the overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about e 570 million,
equivalent to about 13 percent of commercialized GDP. Deficit financing,
together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel and inter-
mediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 90 percent. Between
November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued the zaire in



-3-
four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from B 1.0 = SDR 1.0
to B 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Thanks to a 31 percent increase in exports and an
11 percent decrease in imports (both in nominal terms), the overall 1978
balance of payments deficit was reduced to about $340 million. The deficit
was financed primarily by a further accumulation of arrears. Total arrears
(on public debt, short-term debt and private non-guaranteed debt) increased
from about US$800 million at the end of 1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at
the end of 1978.
8.        The economic and financial situation of Zaire remained difficult in
1979, although the deterioration decelerated in several respects. According
to staff estimates, commercialized GDP declined by only one percent (compared
to nearly 7 percent in 1978) and the budgetary deficit was smaller in nominal
terms and as a proportion of GDP than the year before. However, the budgetary
deficit was financed entirely by recourse to the banking system. This plus
the acceleration of credit to the rest of the economy continued to exert
pressure on prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city
during the year. The balance of payments also remained under strong pressure,
as evidenced by a further accumulation of external payment arrears.. On
December 31, 1979, arrears (including those on short-term commercial debt and
invisibles) amounted to about US$1.8 billion. The zaire was devalued by
another 25 percent against the SDR on August 24, 1979 and by another 30
percent on February 22, 1980, modifying the rate to B 1.00     SDR 0.2625
US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation since November 1, 1978 to
74.75 percent.
9.        In August 1979, Zaire adopted a new stabilization program covering
the 18-month period from July 1, 1979 to December 31, 1980. The program was
designed essentially to contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb
the rate of inflation (to 50-55 percent) and thereby create the conditions for
a resumption of economic growth. To these ends, the program called for, inter
alia, a marked reduction in the budgetary deficit and its monetary financing,
a substantial deceleration of domestic credit expansion, improved foreign
exchange management, and a flexible exchange rate policy. In support of this
program, on August 27, 1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the
upper credit tranches of SDR 118 million for a period of 18 months.
10.       The implementation of the stabilization program encountered some
difficulties in 1979. However, Zaire met all the performance criteria in 1980
and was able to purchase the full amount under the stand-by. Indeed, Zaire
performed better than expected in some respects: unrescheduled external
payment arrears were reduced by US$13 million more than envisaged in the
program, and the Government's recourse to the domestic banking system to
finance the budgetary deficit was e 173 million, or 40 percent, lower than the
program target. The program contributed, inter alia, to halving the inflation
rate to below the level envisaged in the program.
11.       At the end of 1979, Zaire's external public debt, including un-
disbursed, amounted to approximately US$4.6 billion. With the help of a
banking group, Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris
Club (December 1979) and the syndicated banks (April 1980). The Paris Club



-4-
agreement covered debts totaling US$1.3 billion and was more concessional than
earlier agreements in several respects: (i) it included arrears as well as
maturities falling due in 1980; (ii) it rolled over arrears on previous
reschedulings; (iii) it covered for the first time arrears on insured short-
term debt; and (iv) it extended the grace period from two years to four years
for a large portion of the debt. The syndicated banks agreed to reschedule
all their oustanding credits to Zaire (about US$400 million, of which US$290
million in arrears) over a 10-year period, with a moratorium interest rate
of LIBOR plus 1-7/8 percent during the first five years and LIBOR plus 2 per-
cent thereafter. The reschedulings resulted in an increase in Zaire's external
public debt of about US$540 million due to the consolidation of short-term
debt (US$240 million) and the capitalization of interest payments on medium-
and long-term debt (US$300 million).
12.       The post-rescheduling debt service due in 1980 totalled about US$400
million. Zaire is estimated to have paid US$330 million of that amount,
compared to US$168 million in 1979. Zaire managed to avoid being legally in
default by delaying the signature of some of the bilateral agreements and by
"postponing" some payments with the consent of some of the creditors.    The
developments of 1980 with respect to debt are on the whole positive, but the
debt problem remains serious, as shown below (paragraph 17).
13.       In 1980, the external resource constraints of the Government remained
very tight. Export growth was held back by the deterioration of the world
cobalt and coffee markets. Disbursements remained unchanged, but debt service
payments more than doubled (to 17 percent of exports), as noted above, and
net transfers were probably negative. Nevertheless, the supply situation eased
somewhat. While official imports (imports with officially acquired resources)
appear to have declined in real terms, total imports cleared through customs
registered a gain. Thanks to this gain, GDP may have registered a small
increase over the year before. The economic situation was also helped by an
increase of 17 percent in GECAMINES- copper output, although heavy taxation and
the bearishness of the cobalt market caused a serious delay in the company's
rehabilitation program.
14.       During the last two years, Zaire has taken a number of important
steps under the Mobutu Plan, which the Government views as a broad-based and
multipronged effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with the parti-
cipation of major donors. These include the installation of an expatriate
deputy governor as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF,
at the Bank of Zaire. Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general,
proposed by the UNDP, to the Ministry of Finance. The controller general is
assisted by a team of technical experts. In addition, as part of an effort
to reform its customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the
Ministry of Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs
and Duties (OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical
and administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy is the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government has reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and reliance on the private sector. Seven
inefficient "commodity offices" have been dissolved; some agricultural producer



-5-
prices have been raised; under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort
is under way to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture
and related infrastructure; a new investment code has been promulgated; and a
number of reforms have been initiated in the management of state enterprises.
Recently, Zaire has also established an External Resources Coordinating
Committee which responds to a long-felt need in this area. The Committee,
in which the major donors participate, has been meeting regularly.
15.       During 1978-79, international and domestic attention to the problem
of economic recovery was directed to the preparation of a three year public
investment program (PIP). The need was underlined at the first Brussels
Conference in June 1978, where the Bank was asked to assist Zaire in this
endeavor. In August 1979, the Government completed such a program, focusing
largely on rehabilitation needs in priority sectors such as transportation and
agriculture. The execution of the PIP to date has been constrained by (i) the
shortage of resources, and (ii) the execution of certain on-going projects
which had not been included in the PIP. The Zaire Ministry of Planning has
just completed a new investment program for 1981-83, taking into account the
execution of the 1979-81 program to date. The new program includes all public
investments under execution or planned. The preparation of the PIP for 1979-81
and its update represents a first step toward the establishment of an invest-
ment programming and budgeting process in Zaire. This process, despite a weak
manpower and data base, is being continued, and it is slowly yielding some
of the desired results: technical experience is slowly building up; programming
and follow-up procedures are slowly being institutionalized; and the agencies
whose cooperation is crucial to the process are slowly being sensitized to the
importance of this very cooperation.
16.       The developments summarized above have paved the way toward a
greater use of IMF resources. (Negotiations toward an Extended Fund Facility
are currently underway.) They have also improved the climate for new meetings
of the Paris Club, expected in mid-June, and the Consultative Group shortly
thereafter.
17.       The resource constraints of Zaire remain severe because of (i) the
bearish outlook for world copper and cobalt prices; (ii) the cumulative effect
of insufficient rehabilitation and maintenance on productive capacity and infra-
structure since the beginning of the crisis; and (iii) heavy external debt
obligations. Without further rescheduling, Zaire's external debt service due
in 1981-83 will average more than US$700 million, or approximately 32 percent
of projected export earnings. Without additional aid, the financial hardships
will be all the greater because the project pipeline has been reduced
significantly (to about US$600 million) in the last few years. (Cumulative
disbursements over the last four years have exceeded cumulative commitments by
about US$400 million).
18.       Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy
and agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices. Economic developments in Zaire will continue to depend on the vagaries
of world commodity prices. Moreover, important domestic problems remain.



- 6 -
Adjusting to the resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by the
crisis has been seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institutions,
the inadequacy of administrative controls, especially with regard to the
repatriation and allocation of foreign exchange earnings and the monitoring of
budgetary expenditures, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making. The
authorities are aware of these shortcomings and the need to correct them.
They recognize, in particular, the importance of continuously strengthening
the ongoing institutional reforms in order to both improve the management of
the economy and encourage the flow -- as well as facilitate the absorption --
of the substantial external assistance, financial and technical, needed to
fulfill the country s potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.       From 1969 to date, Zaire has received 21 IDA credits totaling
US$303 million for transport, agriculture, development finance company
operations, water supply and education projects. The Bank has also extended
grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning
assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100
million for the GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by
the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which
provided for special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export
earnings. The IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the
Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan
for an offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1981 and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
20.       As of December 31, 1979 the Bank Group's share of Zaire's disbursed
public debt outstanding was about 5.6 percent and its actual share of public
debt service is estimated at about 9.0 percent during 1979.
21.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in
1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des
Voies Maritimes (RVM), Bureau of Roads (OR), received technical and financial
assistance from the Association which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank loan
originated a fruitful dialogue which led to the strengthening of management
and planning of the Company.
22.       While SOFIDE and the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) are execut-
ing projects in a satisfactory manner, implementation of other projects has
been difficult due to the country's inadequate manpower and management
capacity and, in recent years, because of the economic crisis. The first
Education Project (1972) was delayed because of the management weakness of



-7-
the Project Unit. While there has been a marked improvement in the manage-
ment of OR and ONATRA, the financial management of RVM and RVF remains unsatis-
factory. In the last two or three years, release of the required budgetary
funds has been difficult but is now improving. Lack of foreign exchange to
finance spare parts and fuel, deterioration of the transport network and
marketing system have resulted in supply problems for most projects. Recruit-
ing and retaining adequate staff have been difficult. The present weakness of
the construction sector in Zaire has also been a major factor contributing to
both delays and cost overruns in projects such as water supply and education
which include large civil works components. Finally, inflation has compounded
the above problems. Several projects had to be revised to reduce their scope.
An amendment agreement on the GECAMINES project which allows completion of
essential rehabilitation works while postponing some of the expansion invest-
ments was signed in November 1979. In January 1980, the Bank undertook with
the Zairian authorities an overall review of ongoing Bank projects which for
the first time provided an integrated view of implementation problems and has
resulted in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank's
assistance particularly in the agriculture sector. Five Credits have been
totally disbursed: Credits 152 and 292-ZR (First and Second Highway Projects)
and Credits 190, 271 and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE Projects).
Completion reports have been issued for all these projects and performance
audit reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE and the First Highway
Projects.
23.       In the past three years the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implemen-
tation of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry are also included
in our program through assistance to SOFIDE. Support of the transport sector,
and in particular of the Voie Nationale, will continue to be a top priority
area for IDA investments. Another major thrust of future assistance is
expected to be on agriculture to reverse the declining trend of agricultural
output, decrease reliance on agricultural imports and promote the export of
selected agricultural commodities.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.     The country's
geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in elevation
within the country result in climates which make possible a variety of agri-
cultural activities. Over three quarters of Zaire's population derives its
livelihood from agriculture and many of the remainder are indirectly dependent
on it for employment. Nevertheless, agriculture's recent average contribution
to GDP is only 25 percent, of which 60 percent comes from between three and four
million family farms growing foodcrops, mainly for their own use, and small
amounts of cash crops, usually coffee or cotton. The rest of agricultural
production comes from plantations which produce coffee, rubber, cocoa and tea
for export and sugar, palm oil and cattle for the domestic market.



-8-
25.       The deterioration of general economic conditions, unfavorable
producer prices, overvaluation of the zaire, zairianization and nationaliza-
tion policies (para 5), have resulted in a decline of agricultural production
and in the deterioration of agro-industrial processing facilities. Zairianiza-
tion of small transport enterprises and small traders, in particular, disrupted
marketing of agricultural produce as many owners dissolved their enterprises
and were not replaced. As a result, small farmers lost some of the incentive
to produce other than for subsistence needs. Agriculture has also suffered
from the low level of public expenditures for the sector. Since 1970, the
volume of all export crops except coffee has decreased, while imports of food-
stuffs have increased rapidly to meet the food requirements of the fast-growing
population. Food shortages caused by the decline of per capita production of
foodcrops, by insufficient food imports, by inadequate transportation networks
and by unreliable and inefficient distribution systems have contributed sub-
stantially to the recent high inflation rates. There is evidence in many
areas that the population is suffering from malnutrition.
26.       Historically, the role of Government institutions in promoting
and regulating agricultural development in Zaire was relatively minor.
The private sector has until recently dominated the development of modern
agricultural activities. The Government's role in modern, commercial
agriculture was traditionally limited to a modest regulatory function.
Government support to traditional agriculture has also been particularly
weak as compared with other African countries.
27.       As a result of this legacy of a limited and often counterproductive
Government role, the institutions responsible for agricultural and rural
development are at present poorly organized, and the respective roles of
various agencies are not clearly defined. Difficulties are compounded by
frequent changes in institutions and in senior officials and by problems of
coordination among agencies. The Department of Agriculture and Rural Develop-
ment is responsible for formulating agricultural policy, providing extension
services and supervising the parastatal bodies under its control such as the
National Institute for Agricultural Studies and Research (INERA) and the
National Livestock Development Office (ONDE). For about a year, in 1978, the
Department of Agriculture and the Department of Rural Development existed
separately. They were merged into one Department with two State Secretaries,
one for Agriculture, and one for Rural Development, in January 1979. To date
the responsibilities of each State Secretariat are still ill-defined and
coordination between them remains poor.
28.       Since 1971, the Government has set up a number of specialized
development organizations (offices) responsible for various crops, including
sugar, livestock, edible oils, cereals, coffee, cotton, cocoa, fishing, wood
and ivory. Their functions vary, and include applied research, marketing,
distribution of imported commodities, provision of technical assistance and
extension services to farmers, and, in some cases, participation in the
administration of companies retroceded to their former owners. Because of
lack of funds and limited managerial and technical capacity, these offices
have played so far a minor role. In addition the government has sought to
regulate and control prices of many agricultural commodities. These measures
have had a generally negative impact on production and marketing. The Govern-
ment has recently announced its intention to move toward price liberalization.



-9-
29.       There is no institutional credit for small farmers.    A number of
agencies implementing agricultural projects financed by external aid agencies
extend credit to small farmers in the framework of these projects at ad hoc
terms and conditions. Credit for commercial agriculture comes from commercial
banks and from SOFIDE, which charges a 15 percent per annum interest rate,
plus commitment fee, on a par with commercial bank rates.
Mobutu Plan
30.       The Government has recently reaffirmed its intention to give prio-
rity to agriculture and, within the framework of the Mobutu Plan, has identi-
fied a number of priority areas for action. These include: (i) restoring trans-
portation links in the rural areas; (ii) raising productivity of small farms;
(iii) applying simple and low cost agricultural technologies; (iv) reviewing
pricing and marketing policies; (v) involving the private sector in the
recovery program through Development Agreements with industrial and commercial
enterprises, whereby funds from the collection of special charges are earmarked
for priority development projects; and (vi) strengthening agricultural training
and extension. The government is currently preparing an agricultural action
plan which will include a description of specific actions to improve the
operations of ongoing projects; an agricultural investment plan for 1981-1983;
and an analysis of foreign exchange requirements for the agricultural sector.
31.       Given the limited capacity of the public sector to revive the
agricultural sector and in order to stimulate participation by the private
sector in the national economic recovery effort, the Government has established
since 1978 a system of economic recovery funds. Under this system industrial
and commercial enterprises participate in the national effort for economic
recovery by signing Development Agreements with the national Executive Council.
Under these Agreements the companies are authorized to establish an economic
recovery fund from the collection of a special charge, which is added to the
official sales price of the commodities they sell or manufacture; this charge
must not exceed 10 percent of the retail value of each unit produced or sold.
The proceeds are to be deposited once a month in an account with the Bank of
Zaire which is managed by the enterprise on behalf of the Government; the
enterprise must keep separate accounts for this fund. The fund is to be used
to finance development projects with priority given to import substitution
projects. When operating in the interior of the country, the enterprises can
use this fund to finance the maintenance and/or construction of transport and
social infrastructure (e.g., roads, schools, dispensaries). The enterprises
can implement these development projects on their own or subcontract their
implementation to other companies. The experience so far with Development
Agreements has been mixed, but, on the whole, positive. Several companies
have signed Development Agreements with the national Executive Council and
have expressed their satisfaction with the system; they have embarked on a
wide range of activities including direct cultivation of maize and other
crops, extension work with farmers, and development of basic infrastructures.
Other companies have expressed dissatisfaction and have argued that controls
on use of funds are too tight and are concerned about keeping their autonomy
in managing the funds. The law is not yet uniformly applied by all companies,
and the success and quality of management of the projects largely depend on
the companies establishing Economic Recovery Funds. In addition to Economic



- 10 -
Recovery Funds, the Government recently established special agricultural funds
("fonds agricoles") which are levied on agricultural exports and are managed
by the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development.
IDA lending to Agriculture
32.       The proposed Project would be the seventh IDA-supported agricultural
project for Zaire. The First Livestock Development Project (Credit 398-ZR of
US$8.0 million) was approved in 1973, the Cotton Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 660-ZR) in 1976 (US$8.0 million), and the Ituri Livestock Development
Project (Credit 697-ZR of US$8.5 million) in 1977. These three projects have
encountered serious implementation difficulties, mostly due to the country's
weak institutional capacity and delays in the provision of counterpart funds;
however, implementation of these projects has recently much improved.     The Oil
Palm Project (Credit 796-ZR of US$9.0 million) was approved in 1978 but only
became effective in January 1981 because of delays in finalizing administrative
arrangements among the government, participating companies and cofinanciers.
A Smallholder Maize Project (Credit 1040-ZR of US$11.0 million) was approved
in June 1980 and a Sugar Project (Credit 1080-ZR of US$26.4 million) was
approved in December 1980. A Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project has been
appraised.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission in May 1977,
and prepared by the Government of Zaire. A combined preparation and appraisal
mission which included representatives of the Federal Republic of Germany
visited Zaire in November/December 1978 and a post-appraisal mission took
place in early October 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from
February 25 to 27, 1981. The Zairian delegation was led by Mr. Mukala, State
Secretary for Rural Development. The Staff Appraisal Report for this Project,
entitled "Zaire, Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project" No. 2824-ZR, dated
April 15, 1981, is being circulated separately. A supplementary project data
sheet is attached as Annex III.
Rationale for a Technical Assistance Project
34.       In November 1978, the Government of Zaire asked IDA to consider the
possibility of financing an integrated agricultural and livestock development
project in the Kwango and Kwilu subregions of Bandundu. While there is good
potential for a successful, long-term agricultural development program in the
area, a broad based project is unlikely to succeed at present, in the absence
of a strong institutional framework. Therefore, given the urgent need to
develop agricultural production and to support the efforts of the public and
private sectors in this respect, it was decided to start from a relatively
small and simple Technical Assistance Project. The main objective of this
Project would be to establish and start the operations of a subregional
development authority, the Kwango-Kwilu Integrated Development Company
(CODAIK)). Once established, this would provide the institutional framework



for the implementation of a long-term agricultural development program to
increase foodcrops, livestock and fish production in the Kwango and Kwilu
subregions. This program could be supported by one or more future IDA opera-
tions. The scheme would permit the testing of institutional arrangements
which could be ultimately replicated in other agricultural development programs
and projects in Zaire.
Project Area
35.       The Kwango and Kwilu subregions comprise the Southern and Eastern
part of the region of the Bandundu. They are formed of a savannah covered
plateau of moderate altitude, which is cut by deep valleys. The subregions
are generally suitable for crop and livestock development but conservation
measures are needed to prevent soil2erosion. The population density, ranging
between 6 and 27 inhabitants per km , is relatively high. Both subregions are
linked to the cities of Kinshasa and Bandundu by a relatively good road
and river system, which provides a virtually unlimited and immediately
accessible market for staple foods produced in the regions. Before indepen-
dence the major products were palm oil, coffee and livestock. Since then,
however, many of the large, commercial farms were damaged or destroyed during
the 1964 Mulelist rebellion, which aimed at establishing an autonomous regional
Government, or were abandoned as a result of the nationalization measures. At
present, the main products produced on small farms are foodcrops, such as
maize and manioc. Several bilateral and multilateral donors (China, US,
UNDP/FAO), religious missions and private or mixed-capital corporations such
as PLZ, Bandundu are active in the region. The Technical Assistance Project
would be implemented in the administrative zones of Bulungu, Idiofa, Masi-
Manimba and part of Gungu in the Kwilu subregion, and in the administrative     2
zone of Feshi in the Kwango subregion. These zones cover a total of 71,000 km
and have a total population of about 1,300,000. All land in the project area
is owned, in principle, by the Government but, is still managed according
to traditional law at the "collectivite" level. Accordingly, small farmers
cultivate land attributed to them by the "collectivite" authorities who also
allocate communal grazing lands. Medium-scale farmers receive their lands by
applying directly to the Government authorities. They are required to support
their application by submitting a development plan for the land in question.
Government officials ensure that lands are unoccupied and make the necessary
arrangements with the "collectivite" authorities. While this system has made
it possible to develop a certain number of medium-scale farms, it faces
significant constraints. Notably, many young people are discouraged from
farming because their oldest maternal uncle has the right, traditionally, to
take possession of their lands at any time.
36.       Agricultural produce from the Project area is taken to the market
mostly by truck and, to a limited extent, by river boat. There is no estab-
lished schedule of rural markets. There are a number of traditional markets
operating in rural areas, the largest of which is in Bulungu. From time to
time, tradesmen from Kinshasa will travel to markets in the interior to obtain
supplies, but most deal directly with the villages and then only with the most
accessible ones. In theory, the price of food and other agricultural products
is established and controlled by the Government. However, shortages of food
in Kinshasa have made any attempt at effective control virtually impossible.



- 12 -
Project Description
37.       The Project would involve commercial or industrial enterprises in
the management of agricultural development in the region, through their
participation as shareholders in the mixed-capital development company (CODAIK).
The CODAIK would draw on the experience of Government departments, industrial
and commercial enterprises, private organizations (in particular religious
missions and farmers' associations) and bilateral and international agencies
already involved in agricultural development in the area. The Project would
include:
(i) establishment of a development authority for the Kwango-Kwilu
subregion;
(ii) technical assistance for Project design and management;
(iii) development of a training and extension system for the Project
area;
(iv) establishment of supporting services and infrastructure for
marketing and agricultural credit;
(v) development of a cattle-breeding ranch;
(vi) applied research and studies; and
(vii) technical assistance for the Ministry of Planning.
38.       CODAIK would be incorporated in accordance with the January 6,.1978
law on public companies which is also applicable to-mixed-capital companies.
It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit that CODAIK has been
established and that its statutes are satisfactory to the Association (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit-Agreement). CODAIK would be responsi-
ble for planning the agricultural development of the region; defining suitable
sub-regional farming systems; managing the extension services; and developing
adequate support services to the farmers, in particular marketing. The
Government would delegate to CODAIK the management of the extension services
for agriculture, animal husbandry and aquaculture in the subregion. CODAIK's
Board of Directors would include representatives of the Government, of the
private enterprises participating in the Project and of the farmers' associa-
tions. CODAIK would have three technical departments (planning and applied
research, training and extension, and administration and finance) and two
regional directorates. These departments and directorates would report to a
General Manager who would also be the Project Manager.    It is expected that in
the long term, CODAIK-s activities would be financed as under the proposed
Project, i.e. with the support of economic recovery funds and budgetary allo-
cations for non-recoverable expenditures (planning, extension and training);
from external borrowings for foreign exchange expenditures as long as such
resources cannot be made available from domestic sources; and on a self-
financing basis for such activities as inputs and crops marketing, agricultural
credit and provision of mechanized services.



- 13 -
39.       The proposed Technical Assistance Project would be implemented in
two phases: (a) a four-month establishment phase to set up CODAIK and,
(b) a twenty-month implementation phase. About ten months before the expected
date of Project completion, the Government, IDA and GTZ would review the
status of the Project with a view to assessing its progress and determining a
future course of action (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(a) Establishment Phase:
A consultant team would be recruited which would assist
the Government to identify the partners of CODAIK, to
design CODAIK statutes and organizational structure, to
define its financial structure, to recruit its General
Manager, and to select its Board members.   The consultant
team would include:
i) a management specialist, as team leader, who would be
responsible for the coordination and supervision of
the work of the team and the recruitment of the General
Manager of CODAIK;
ii)  a financial analyst, who would be responsible for
preparing detailed recommendations on the financial
structure of the company, its financial management
and all financial documentation required for the
Company's incorporation, and
iii)  a lawyer, who would work with the staff of the Department
of Portfolio to prepare the company's statutes and by-laws
and other required legal documents.
The financial analyst and the lawyer would be hired for a
period of four months, and the team leader would be hired for
six months including 2 months to assist during the initial
phase of the implementation period. The management expert and
the financial analyst are being recruited internationally since
local capability in this field is scarce. The lawyer would be
recruited from a local legal firm of international standing, as
a detailed knowledge of Zairian corporate laws would be required.
The employment of CODAIK's General Manager would be a condition
of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(b) Implementation Phase
The implementation phase would include the following
(i) Training and extension - A refresher training program
would be designed to upgrade the existing extension staff,
and complementary vocational training schemes would be set
up; several training methods would be tested in order to



- 14 -
define the method best adapted to the objectives of the
program; and the training capability of various existing
institutions, for example missions, would be assessed
with a view to defining whether and how they should be
strengthened. Farmers' training would be integrated into
the extension activities. The extension objectives of the
Project would be to test the proposed technical package
for farming, animal husbandry and aquaculture; to establish
16 pilot extension centers in the Project area; and to
encourage farmers to organize themselves into farmers'
associations for the production of inputs (seeds and
breeding stock), the marketing and storage of their crops
and for the development of fish farming and cattle raising.
Several such associations already exist in the Project
area. The training of extension staff would cover all
zones included in the project area.
(ii)  Establishment of supporting services and infrastructure
for marketing and agricultural credit - CODAIK would
assess the existing marketing system and infrastructure
in the Project area, and review the pricing system for
agricultural produce, livestock and fish.   A marketing
program would be designed, including a market information
system, a calendar, a system for operating rural markets,
and means to improve crop collection and storage. Several
rural markets would be reestablished, and a crop collec-
tion system would be established in cooperation with
local authorities. CODAIK would act as a residual buyer,
provided it had back up sales agreements with potential
buyers, to guarantee farmers the sale of their produce.
An experimental credit program would also be set up to
enable the farmers to purchase inputs such as seeds,
plant materials, tools, simple processing equipment and
breeding stock. Agricultural planning including the
collection of statistical data to monitor farm develop-
ments will be carried out. Mechanical services (chiefly
ploughing) managed initially by CODAIK and later contracted
out will also be provided.
(iii)  Cattle breeding ranch - The existing ranch at Gungu-Katuta
would be developed into a breeding ranch for sale of
breeding stock to the farmers in the traditional sector.
(iv)  Applied research and studies - CODAIK would start an
applied research program to determine the crops, inputs
(including fertilizers and small agricultural machinery)
and fish species best adapted to the conditions-of the
Project area. As part of this program, a pilot aquaculture
center would be established at Kikwit. CODAIK would also
undertake studies to support further development of the
integrated agricultural and livestock program and for the



-15-
preparation of possible future projects. The Government
would carry out a study of the economic recovery fund
system.
(v) Technical Assistance for the Ministry of Planning - The
proposed credit would finance the costs of a high-level
macro-economic adviser who would reinforce the Ministry of
Planning's macro-economic planning capability and provide
training to high level Zairian staff. The qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment of this expert
would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.08(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). This component, which
would be implemented independently of the rest of the
Project, was included in the Project to respond quickly
to a recent Government request.
Technical Assistance
40.       Six internationally recruited experts would assist CODAIK with
the start-up of its operations. They would occupy the positions of general
manager, three departmental heads, and two zonal managers. In the selection
process, preference would be given to candidates with work experience in
Kwango-Kwilu or in Zaire, and to Zairian nationals possessing the necessary
qualifications and experience.   The initial contracts would be for a twenty-
month period (21 months for the general manager). At US$10,700 per man-month
(including salaries, fees, travel expenses, and allowances), the total program
of 121 man-months would thus cost about US$1.3 million. Short-term consul-
tants would assist the project management team as follows. The management
specialist recruited for the Project preparation (para 39a) would follow up on
the performance of CODAIK's management and the adequacy of its organization,
through periodic visits. He would also set up an internal audit unit. An
aquaculture specialist would prepare a detailed feasibility study for the
aquaculture center, draft the bidding documents, and supervise its construc-
tion. A marketing specialist would assist in designing and supervising the
implementation of the Project marketing component. A credit specialist would
assist in designing the credit component and supervising its implementation.
A livestock specialist would assist CODAIK and the livestock development
authority (ONDE) to plan the operations of the Gungu-Katuta ranch, to start a
new management system and supervise its performance through follow-up visits.
A total of about 21 man-months of consultants' services would be required
for a total cost of about US$298,000.
Project Implementation
41.       The Agricultural and Rural Development Department and the Portfolio
Department would share the responsibility of supervising the Project, as
required by the Zairian law on public companies. CODAIK would be the Project
executing agency and its General Manager would also be the Project director.



- 16 -
Whenever appropriate, CODAIK would subcontract parts of the Project implemen-
tation to organizations.already operating in the Project area. Participation
of local authorities would be sought through consultation of the recently
instituted zonal and subregional Economic Development Councils.
42.       The Project Manager would establish each year an annual work program
to enable the various parties concerned with Project implementation to monitor
all work in progress and to adjust the Project design as experience is gained.
Each work program would present the proposed Project investments and activities
for the forthcoming year, the company's investment and operating budgets, the
financial plan, and the staffing requirements, including secondment of exten-
sion staff. It would be sent to IDA for approval by November 1 each year
before being submitted to CODAIK's Board of Directors (Section 3.06 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Each work pprogram would be supported by
a technical, management and financial assessment of the Company's and Project's
performance.
Project Costs and Financing
43.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$5.9 million equiva-
lent, of which US$3.9 million, or 65 percent, in foreign exchange. The cost
of the technical assistance component is estimated at US$1.87 million equiva-
lent. A cost table and financing plan are included in the attached Project
and Credit Summary. The proposed IDA Credit of US$2.9 million would finance
49 percent of total Project cost. The Credit together with a grant of US$1.0
million from the Federal Republic of Germany, under parallel financing arrange-
ments, would cover the total foreign exchange cost. The German grant would
finance the cost of the services of three of the six experts and of the
aquaculture consultant. It would also finance the purchase of vehicles and
spare parts. It would be a condition of Credit effectiveness that all condi-
tions precedent to initial disbursement under the agreement between the
Federal Republic of Germany and Zaire, except for the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit, have been fulfilled. (Section 6.01 (e) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The foreign cost of the Project establishment phase, equivalent to US$300,000,
is being financed with an advance under the IDA Project Preparation Facility.
As the Project is not expected to yield a measurable return because of its
experimental nature, the Government would transfer the proceeds of the Credit
to CODAIK partly as grant and partly as the Government's share in the company s
equity. It would be a condition of Credit effectivess that a subsidiary
agreement has been signed between the Government and CODAIK for the implemen-
tation of the Project (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
44.       The Government's contribution to the Project (US$2.0 million) for
the financing of the initial capital of the company and the Project's operat-
ing costs, would be financed by budgetary allocations, agricultural funds
("fonds agricoles") and economic recovery funds administered by participat-
ing private companies. An evaluation study of the economic recovery fund
system would be carried out under the Project in order to review its fiscal
implications, its impact on resource mobilization, the conditions for its
successful operation, and its overall effectiveness, both as a distinct



- 17 -
mechanism for financing developing activities and as compared with alternative
financing methods (Section 3.08(a) of the draft Development Agreement). The
opening of an account for CODAIK and the payment of the Government's contribu-
tion to the initial working capital of CODAIK, amounting to US$350,000 equiva-
lent, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Sections
3.02 and 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
45.       The terms of reference for the technical experts involved in the
establishment phase have been approved by IDA. The experts and short-term
consultants for the implementation phase would be hired under individual
contracts. Their terms of reference, qualifications, and terms and conditions
of employment would be submitted to IDA for approval (Section 3.03 of the
Draft Credit Agreement). Contracts for the purchase of goods (vehicles,
equipment and materials) costing more than US$80,000 would be awarded under
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Contracts of less than US$80,000 for purchase of goods as well as all civil
works contracts would be awarded under local procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Association. The amount of contracts for goods awarded
under local procurement procedures should not, in the agregate, exceed the
equivalent of US$500,000.
Disbursement
46.       The Credit would be disbursed as follows:   (a)   100 percent of total
expenditures for the services of CODAIK's General Manager, the Administrative
and Financial Director, the Director of Planning and Applied Research, and the
short-term consultants; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent
of local expenditures for vehicles, office equipment for CODAIK, and farm
machinery or equipment for the marketing, applied research, credit and ranching
components; (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 40 percent of local
expenditures for civil works (offices, staff housing, training and extension
centers, and the Gungu-Katuta ranch); (d) 65 percent of total expenditures for
the construction and equipping of the aquaculture center; (e) 100 percent of
the foreign exchange expenditures for the studies; (f) 100% of total expendi-
tures for technical assistance for the Ministry of Planning; and (g) 100% of
foreign expenditure for the study on the economic recovery fund system.
Audit
47.       CODAIK would keep separate accounts for all Project activities.    The
accounting system would conform to the guidelines of the Zairian Accounting
Plan as required for all public or mixed capital enterprises under Zairian
law. Project accounts would be audited each year by external auditors
acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
48.       The principal benefit of the Project would be institution building.
At the central Government level, the Project would require that several



- 18 -
Departments join efforts and resources. At the regional level, the Project
would start a long-term planning and organizational effort for agricultural
development and establish the institutions which would lead this effort.
The Project would also support the Government-s efforts to mobilize the
private sector, to tap its managerial and technical resources and bring it
to participate actively in the national development effort. In addition to
institution building, the Project can be expected to lead to improvements
in farming practices through adaptive research, improved extension services,
agricultural credit and marketing. Because of the experimental nature of the
Project, no significant increase in agricultural production can be expected in
the short run. However, if the experiment is successful, a more comprehensive
follow-up Project could have a significant impact in improving the agricultural
production in the region.
49.       Because of its experimental nature, the Project involves significant
risks. It can be implemented only if the Government is successful in mobiliz-
ing private sector partners, and in establishing effective coordination among
the various government Departments. To offset this risk, the draft appraisal
report was reviewed with the Government and potential partners at an early
stage, and extensive assistance was provided to the Government to speed up the
recruitment of the consultants required for the establishment phase. The
success of Project operations in the field would largely depend on the motiva-
tion of the management staff and on the confidence of local farmers in the
extension staff. Another risk is related to the use of economic recovery funds
to finance part of the Government's contribution to the Project. While the
system seems to offer at present a guarantee of regular transfers of fiscal
revenues to the national agricultural development effort, it is, nonetheless,
a parallel fiscal system and there is no indication at the present time of its
long-term viability. To offset this risk the Government gave assurances at
negotiations that alternative sources of funds were available, notably budgetary
resources and agricultural funds (para. 44). In addition the Project annual
work plans with the supporting financing plan, and the intensive supervision
effort envisaged during Project implementation would permit close monitoring
of the system and facilitate the taking of appropriate action. An evaluation
study of this system is also included in the Project (para. 44). The technical
risks are minimal as the recommended farming methods are very simple, have
been successfully tested elsewhere and require only minimal external resources.
The major constraint on the adoption of the recommended methods could be a
shortage of labor, due to the rural exodus caused by the substandard living
conditions in rural areas. To offset this risk, the Project would be coordi-
nated with other projects which are comtemplating the establishment of health
centers and other social facilities within the Project area.
50.       An economic rate of return was not calculated for the Project due to
its experimental nature and because the Project is not directly productive.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for



- 19 -
in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and the text of the draft Resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section II of Annex
III of this Report.
53.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement) would be:
(a) CODAIK has been established under statutes satisfactory to the
Association (para. 38);
(b) CODAIK's General Manager has been employed (para. 39 (a));
(c) the Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and CODAIK has been
signed (para. 43);
(d) all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the agreement
between the Federal Republic of Germany and Zaire, except for the
effectiveness of the IDA Development Credit Agreement, have been met
(para. 43); and
(e) an account for CODAIK has been opened and the Government has
paid its initial contribution of $350,000 equivalent to the working
capital of CODAIK (para. 44).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1981






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page     1  of   5
ZAIRE                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEI  El A    CES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST R_CENT_____ ____
TOTAL           2345.4
AGRICULTURAL     309.8                              MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCQIE
1960  /     1970 / ESTDIATE /    AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                100.0       170.0    260.0                260.0                 868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     87.0       81.0      69.0                 80.0                 699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPLULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)   17.7       21.6      26.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 15.7      21.6      31.5                 17.3                  28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    47.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       8.0        9.0      11.0                 27.4                  61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    58.0       69.0      87.0                 82.6                 126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.7        44.4     44.5                 44.9                  45.5
15-64 YRS.                        52.5       52.8      52.7                52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.8        2.8       2.8                  2.8                   2.8
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.0      2.7                  2.7                   2. 7
URBAN                              ..        5.3       7.7                  6.8                   4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0       47.0      46.0                 47.4                  46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0       21.0      19.0                 19.6                  16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         2.8      3.0                  3.2                   3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        101.0       101.0     92.0                 91.8                  94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 100.0       101.0    104.0                 90.2                  92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         36.0       37.0      36.0               .53.0                   53. 0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0        13.0      10.0                18.4                  15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    37.0       31.0      27.0                 27.7                  21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0       43.0      46.0                 45.3                  50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TEOUSAND)                            ..         ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        11.0     16.0                 23.2                  31.0
URBAN                              ..        33.0     43.0                 58.0                  66.8
RURAL                              ..         4.0      5.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         5. 0    22.0                 28. 9
URBAN                              ..         5.0     67.0                 67.0
RURAL                              ..         5.       6.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        36850.0    30136.0   15537.0             30910.4                14508.2
POPULATION PER NUKSING PERSON    3440.0     2295.0    1938.0               5793.2                3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              ..       320.0    339.0               1198.9                1141.5
URBAN                              ..       127.0
RURAL                              ..       948.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         6.1
RURAL                              ..          .       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN
RURAL                              . .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DW ELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                                                   * -
RURAL                              . .



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page     2  of   5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AV   GES
- MDST RECENT ESTIHATE)
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  L     1970 /b ESTIMATE L   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLME11T RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL               60.0        90.0      93.0                 57.7                  61. 7
MALE                 88.0       114.0    109.0                 74.2                   69.2
FEMALE               32.0       66.0      78.0                 54.1                  51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                3.0         9.0      19.0                 10.0                  20.6
MALE                  4.0        14.0     24.0                 13. 7                  29.2
FE24ALE               1.0        4.0      14.0                  7. 1                  14. 7
VOCATIO11AL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 27.0       10.0        ..                  6.8                   7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          40.0        43.0      42.0                 45.0                  36.6
SECONDARY                        20.0        20.0      27.0                 25.2                  24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      31.0/o      13.0      15.0                 25.5
CO1SUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         3.0       3.6                  3.6                  38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         3.0      40.0                 31.5                  83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         0. 3      0.3                  1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 1.0         9.0        ..                  4.6                  24. 2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 1       0. 1      0. 1                 ..                    0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8201.1      9464.7   11180.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)'                43.8        42.8      43.0                 35.5                  38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            83.4        79.3      76.0                 80.7                  54.3'
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                8.8        10.8      13.0                 8. 1                  17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              47.7        44.9      43.6                 42.2                  38.8
MALE                               54.4        52.1      50.9                 55.1                  48.4
FEMALE                             41.2        37.9      36.5                 29.5                  29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0         1. 1      1. 1                 1.2                   1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                        ..                ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                138.2
RURAL                              ..          ..      80. 0                86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      76.0                107.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      43.0                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..      80.0                 66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
L    The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
LC   1962.
Most recent estirnate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



Ln~      ~      ~~~!                       -            .-
14-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cc5 
W ' SaC                  55
GI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~~~~11j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ccc~~~~~~~~~ ~ 2 
.,'SC12  n'S                        cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 z
-.*u.0'S                                .usi.aI               : CSRAccaO*AACi-~
-  S  -  *'S  p  C  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~A  55  oi.  'SCACSSASS   ccc...  ca  S  ccli.  c  cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
*  A'SA'S  A  --  S  -  c  'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'S  ~~~~1  ; 1
'SSC  'S'SS.SC.c4 ~~~~~~~~~~~  *c~~~S.LC~~~~ SscS  SSA ~~~~~~n%. 5.aicces~~~~~~~~: ~~~  1  a~~~ifiS'~~~~
.5,  s.e.c.  ccc  ..a  cc  s.c  i.ss~~~~~~~~~~~  s.cac  c  s.c  s.c  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S  -  ~ ~ ~   ~
~~~*  *c~~~~~~~~                                      :~~~~  .~~~ ~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~cc                                   Cccc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  ic' 
iS  cS.acc.C.. M.                            s.'c         s~    '5cC5.
c  c    c   .55   cc  Cc  c  s    c .ccE.                          c  V. 
I Z I  I  I  cc  Vc .a.s   s.  tC  e s  .5  C c.1 A1  I          ..~.cj   . . C  ..S  'O                  c
cc  'S.cS  'S'Sccca'Sa  CC~~~~~~~I  -                                               I Z  Zcca c   n . .c S  
c . I I . c.   I A    . .                            ..ci
Icc.  Aa.S-I  -c            'S                 .5                 * c3c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  Ei 
'S                            I Z 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~csclccS'  s.cc
C'S4  ccc..s.s.c  I            -                             I              is.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1  1  .  B I-  
'SC  A'S  'S-c  ~~~~~~~~~C*                                         S'S. II.sI
c  cCccC   c - . s c c c C c c . . c a c c .  cc.  .csnc  CC~~~~~~~~a'Sc   I~~1
ccc-.  cc.  ..  ccc.  cc  'SCCccIs.s.C5.CaCa  -                             .1...-  ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ sas-  ,S   u :   ~  '.-             s
cc  . c  - S. ss. a'a.s   c c cc c   c Cc .cc      Ca .             C-.. 'S  '         c '
cc  ccss.sas.  'Sc.  a c s .  cSsSs.c.sccc..c.Cc  StcC 4  Ec ~ I  A A .
A  I                                                    I. ... A  c   C c csc c c . . c .   C ;  I . - -  cc
1~ZZ1  . ..  a-X c.c                        .~C'
V          i.                                                                   . . .... . .c  . ..
cC..s  .1  c-cc..      c    c    s.u  ~   ~        .-s-Zcc .cI .- . ciccsc     ac.Cc
I  a..  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~' S~~~~~~~~'  --REs 
Ca  Ccccc  a  A~~~~~~~~~S.  ~~~  s~~s.s::c~~~~~s:. 'Scac  ac-n..   ccI  I  .  .
A                            7S~~~~~~~                             A '  SS  
C   cc -  c..  ac .cc Cc   .cc c c c c  ns c'S cA   Ccc C   c Aaa 'S  c-
-  caeacnce   A   'S   C.-.  A'S~~~~.c   ccCs'Sc   ccCccctac.c,ctnac.....   ace.   c   OcccC   Cc~~~~
ccc   a. 'S cCc~eC~S''S.C   S.  -s.ccc  a1en  ce  c'S'SA'Sc.Sc.C'Scc'Sca     -c- As5''S  c



ANNEX I
-23-                                    Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount            Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)        Annual Growth Rates (%7)
(million US$ at              (at current prices)              (at constant 1970 prices)
current prices)
1979                            1979                      1977      1978      1979
Gross domestic product1            6,267.3                          100.0                     -3.5      -5.8       0
Agriculture                       2,023.6                          32.3                     -3.3       0.2       0.6
Industry                         1,432.4                           22.9                      1.3      -8.3      -7.1
Services                         2 659 1                           42.4                     -6.7      -7.0       2.8
Consumption                         5,798.,8z                        87.92/                   -6.8     -12.8       n.a.
Gross Investment                    1,008.02/                        15.32/                   92.33/    43.73/     n.a.
Exports of GNFS                    1,843.0                           29.4                      7.8      -9.0       n.a.
Imports of GNFS                    1,685.0                           26.9                     31.7     -33.2       n.a.
Gross national savings              1,013.01/                        16.2                      5.0       5.7       n.a.
PUBLIC FINANCE-  (Central Government)                   (million Z)                        % of GDP
A c t u a 1                    (at market prices)
1977       1978         1979            1977       1979
Current revenues                                669.0       715.5      1,944.4          16.4      18.0
Current expenditures                            847.2     1,161.5      2,391.9          20.8      22.0
Deficit                                        -178.2      -446.0       -447.5          -4.4      -4.0
Capital expenditures                            110.3       119.7        129.2           2.7       1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                   1977             1978             1979
(million a outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                     1,153.9          1,854.5          2,575.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                              1,054.8          1,578.3          1,928.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               537.0            644.9            987.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GD   - market prices)         28.4             33.6             24.2
General Price Index (1970 - 100)3-
Annual percentage qhanges in:                             641.5          1,009.6          2,131.6
General Price Index5                                         61.1             57.4            111.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                 26.8             49.6             22.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                39.2             20.1             53.2
NOTE:  The figures quoted in the text (e.g., on GDP and imports) may vary from the
above figures as they are based on staff estimates which are more reliable.
Official figures have been used throughout this attachment in order to
assure consistency among the various components.
All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/     At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add
due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/     1978.
3/     Figures for 1977/78 are inconsistent with other trends in the economy and
should be used and interpreted with caution.
4/     Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures financed
by foreign sources.
5/     Retail price index (weighted average of market and shop indices).
April 28, 1981



-24-                                      A4NNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                     1977       1978       1979
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                          1,293      1,638      1,843
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                       (1,228)    (1,573)     (1,773)
Imports of goods and services                          1,784      1,490      1,685
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                       (1,248)    (1,023)    (1,160)
Net transfers                                           -161       -163       -174
Current Account Balance                                 -652        -15         -16
Capital account (net)                                    179       -198        -32
Net errors + omissions                                   -31       -116       -205
SDR Allocation                                            -         -           20
Net international reserves (- - increase)                -69        -75         -48
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 23, 1979                               Z 1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 24, 1979-February 22, 1980                             Z 1.00 - SDR 0.375
Since February 28, 1980                                       Z 1.00 - SDR 0.263
Average exchange rates
1978                                                        US$ 1.00 - g 0.836
1979                                                        US$ 1.00 - Z 1.729
September 1980                                              US4 1.00 - a 2.904
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1979)    million US$          %
Mineralsl/                       1,344.2           76
Others                            428.8            24
Total                         1,773.0           100
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31. 1979                  (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                        3,781.9
Non-Guaranteed                                         300.01'
Total outstanding & Disbursed                        4.9
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 19793/                            %
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                           9.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                             n.a.
IBRD/IDA LENDING. October 31. 1980. million US$          IBRD           IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                                  37.44          161.37
Undisbursed                                               0.16          141.84
Outstanding, incl. Undisburead                           87.60          303.21
1/ Includes copper, cobalt and diamonds only.
2/ Estimated amounts incurred prior to 1978.
3   Ratio of debt service to exports of.goods and non-factor serviceg.
Represents actual payments.
April 28, 1981



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1981)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                           Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower    Purpose            Bank        IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Prior to     Congo &      Transport
June 1960    Otraco       Infrastructure    91.58 2/
Six Credits Fully Disbursed                                        76.00
255        1971       ZAIRE       River Transport                  7.00      0.10
272        1972       ZAIRE       Education                        6.50      1.31
398        1974       ZAIRE       Livestock                        8.50      1.34
1090        1975       ZAIRE       GECAMINES         100.00                   0.16
571        1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II                   26.00      2.92
625        1976       ZAIRE       Water Supply                    21.50      2.16
624        1976       ZAIRE       Education II                    21.00     19.48
660        1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                      8.00      5.77
697        1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                     8.00      4.63
710        1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                      10.00      0.82
796        1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                         9.00      9.00
902        1979       ZAIRE       Railways                        20.00     20.00
916        1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                      26.00     18.41
988        1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance              18.50     18.50
1040 3/     1980       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize               11.00     11.00
1089 3/     1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar              26.40     26.40
Total (less cancellations):                      191.58       303.40    142.00
- of which has been repaid                      103.98          0.19
Total now outstanding:                            87.60       303.21    142.00
Amount sold:                    54.47
- of which has been repaid      54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                87.60        303.21
Total Undisbursed:                                0.16        141.84    142.00
1/   Prior to Exchange adjustments.
2/   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/   Not yet effective.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                Type of           Amount in US$ Millions
Year          Obligor                Business          Loan   Equity    Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Development (SOFIDE)       DFC              -      0.76       0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company    Oil Company        2.50     -       2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company   Oil Company        1.61     -       1.61
Total gross commitments                     4.11    0.76      4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                   0.83     -        0.83
Held by IFC                                 3.28    0.76      4.04
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 1090      Mining Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of March 8,
1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Original Closing
Date: December 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project, which was cofinanced with the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
and EIB, consists of expanding the mining and refining facilities of the
state-owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES). The project was
designed to increase GECAMINES annual production capacity by 120,000 tons
of copper and 4,000 tons of cobalt. Following the invasion of Kolwezi in
May 1978, project execution was temporarily suspended. An Amending Agreement
was signed in November 1979. It calls for the completion of the expansion
program in two phases (construction of same plant units of the original pro-
gram being postponed) and of a rehabilitation program. Phase I of the expan-
sion has been virtually completed with the start-up of the DIMA concentrator
and the associated support facilities in June 1980. Little progress has been
made regarding Phase II of the expansion project which is scheduled for
start-up in 1983. Similarly, progress on the rehabilitation program has been
affected by lack of foreign exchange, difficulties with transportation and
shortage of expatriate personnel. The Loan is now nearly fully disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Credit 272       First Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consisted of (a) the construction or rehabilitation,
equipping and furnishing of educational institutions to train teachers, for
primary education, for secondary-level general and technical education, and
middle-level industrial technicians; (b) the carrying out of a management
study; and (c) the carrying out of a survey of manpower needs. Due to con-
siderable price increases, the Government and IDA curtailed the scope of the
project in 1976. It now includes four institutions: one secondary technical
school and three higher-level teacher-training institutions. It is estimated
that over 90% of the work has been completed. The services of the expatriate
architectural consulting firm have been terminated, and a governmental agency
(CEPED) is to carry out the remaining work. Remaining proceeds from the
Credit are about US$1.3 million.
Credit 398       Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project was designed to increase beef production in the Shaba
region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE) through the provision of technical support and funds for training
agriculturalists. Implementation is proceeding slowly and unevenly.
Initially, a major constraint was the poor performance of the consulting
firm selected to implement the project, which led to the termination of its
contract in 1976. The project was revised in January 1978 in particular to
develop a training program in animal production and range management and to
finance the foreign exchange element of current expenditures on the three
ranches. The management of ONDE has tried to improve performance but limited
managerial capacity and inadequate performance of staff and lack of super-
vision capability still constitute major problems. The financial situation
of the project remains weak. There are however some signs of progress: the
Lubumbashi liaison office is now functioning satisfactorily; new expatriate
managers for the ranches and a financial director for headquarters are now in
post; producer beef prices were increased in December 1979.
Credit 571        Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including
a comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the Kinshasa-
Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering study
for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially slow
due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
In March 1977, a new management was appointed at the head of ONATRA supported
by a team of expatriates, now numbering 60, including the General Manager.
All procurement is now completed or underway. ONATRA's financial performance
has improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have
improved in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Credit funds are almost fully
committed.
Credit 624       Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of construction and equipment of five new rural
primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because
of implementation delays and an unexpectedly high rate of inflation the total
cost of the project substantially exceeds available funds and the Government
has requested that the project content be reduced in line with Government
priorities. Action to be taken in regard to the Government's request is
presently under review.
Credit 625       Water Supply Project; US$21.5 million Credit of
June 18, 1976; Effective Date: August 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981; Cofinanced by
ADB and BADEA
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, provision of engineering consultant services for the six cities,
a comprehensive training program, and studies for additional water supply
projects. REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for water supply and
electricity in Zaire, is the executing agency. Construction works in the six
cities and the training program were satisfactorily completed. Water supply
studies for additional water supply projects are expected to be completed by
the end of 1981.
Credit 660       Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due
to various administrative abstacles and the disolution of ONAFITEX, the
National Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a
public enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX
regional Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed
on October 10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were trans-
ferred to Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
company with clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have
been carried out on a regular schedule and production, although still very
low, is increasing. A price review is under way and new prices are expected
to be announced before the start of the next campaign. The Belgian Cooperation
Agency committed itself to extend technical assistance until December 1982.
Credit 697        Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977; Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three
ranches to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter
facilities including two abattoirs. Project start up suffered from delays in
the provision of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of
the Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary
commodities, insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and
delays in setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Imple-
mentation is progressing relatively satisfactorily. Civil works for veterinary
infrastructure started in June 1980. Constraints remain the very high costs
in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low prices for beef, the
need to ensure that the project unit receives government counterpart funds
on time, and the so far unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of bank
notes in December 1979. Beef prices were increased in December 1979 but are
still too low. The ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to
delete it. The rehabilitation of the Bunia abbatoir is expected to start
soon.
Credit 710        Fourth DFC; US$10 million Credit of August.2, 1977; Effec-
tive Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided
a substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment
of US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of
US$10 million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977. SOFIDE started
operating on July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.
In May 1973, a Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior
Advisor, replaced the Bank-seconded General-Manager. The institution has
developed into a well run and capable development bank, despite the policies
of zairianization/retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and finan-
cial sectors. SOFIDE has recently diversified its activities by increasing
its operations in key economic sectors, especially agriculture and transport-
ation. SOFIDE has also decentralized its operation and has recently opened
three regional offices. In 1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department
conducted a project performance audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found
that SOFIDE had been generally successful in fulfilling its objectives and



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
had developed into a competent organization. The Credit is nearly totally
committed.
Credit 796-ZR    Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978;
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983; Cofinanced by African Development
Fund (ADF), Banque Arabe pour le Developpement
Economique en Afrique (BADEA) and Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the rehab-
ilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for replanting
and new plantings, renewal of oil mill and transport equipment, improvement
and expansion of social infrastructure, the employment of additional staff,
and training of staff. Effectiveness has been delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government to accept the terms of
the formers' participation in the Project, by administrative bottlenecks in
particular in the Ministry of Agriculture, and by the complex cofinancing
arrangements required. Also, legal difficulties arose between the Government
and CCCE with respect to the Government's guarantee applied to the CCCE loan.
Much progress was made during 1980 and the IDA Credit as well as the CCCE
Credit and the Loans of BADEA and AfDB are effective. One of the companies
which were to participate in the project has withdrawn and the investment and
financing plans were revised. The CCCE Credit Agreement was amended accord-
ingly, an Amendment to the IDA Credit Agreement was signed by IDA and trans-
mitted to the Government for signature in March 1981, and BADEA is preparing
an amendment to its Loan Agreement. One of the companies has already com-
pleted about one third of the planting program out of its own resources. The
other company is preparing equipment orders to start its planting program by
mid 1981.
Credit 902       Railway Project:   US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for Development;
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the OPEC Special Fund; and
the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the
Societe Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track
rehabilitation, equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's
effective capacity. The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210
km of track and ballasting another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting
locomotives and 12 passenger coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and
wagons; (d) telecommunications, workshops, data processing and service equip-
ment; (e) extension of Ilebo port facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and
(g) middle/senior technical and management staff training and consultant
services. Effectiveness of this credit was delayed in particular by slow
progress in completing cofinancing arrangements. The Credit became effective
on January 27, 1981 and is now progressing satisfactorily.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Credit 916        Fourth Highway Project:  US$26 million Credit of June 14,
1979; date of effectiveness: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the EEC
Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund for Development
The Project was designed to finance 2.5 years out of a three year
road maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Bureau of Roads (BR)
(1979-81). It comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km
of roads, including 800 km of paved roads; strengthening and replacement of
bridges; construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and
cable ferries and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment,
spare parts and fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and
technical assistance and training. The project would help meet minimum road
transport requirements for the agricultural sector and would result in sub-
stantial reductions in vehicle operating costs.
Credit 998-ZR     Fifth DFC; US$18.5 million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The fifth SOFIDE Credit (information on SOFIDE given above under
Credit 710) became effective on January 22 1981. As of April 15, 1981 US$5.47
million of this Credit has been committed.
Credit 1040       Smallholder Maize Project:  US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; not yet effective; Cofinanced by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
and African Development Bank (ADB).
The Project aiTs to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes
of about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs in-
cluding fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and
sales services and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the
private marketing sector; (c) development of improved extension, training
and research facilities; (d) development of road and drinking water in-
frastructure; and (e) technical assistance in support of the above
activities. The credit is not yet effective.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Credit 1089      Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project:   US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; not yet effective; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project includes (i) rehabilitation and extension of an existing
plantation, including provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation
and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugar cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and construction
of offices and staff housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and installation of a data process-
ing and management information system; (vi) staff training; (vii) pilot projects
to promote food crop production. Effectiveness of this credit was postponed
by two months from April 7, 1981 to June 5, 1981 to allow time to receive the
new statutes of Compagnie Sucriere (the Project entity) and of its parent
company, and to meet CCCE's loan only outstanding condition of effectiveness.



-33-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
KWANGO-KWILU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
1.  The Project was identified by an IDA mission in May 1977 and pre-
pared by the Department of Agriculture and ONDE, with the assistance
of several consultants. An official request for financing was
submitted to IDA in November 1978. A combined preparation and
appraisal mission which included representatives of the Federal
Republic of Germany took place in November/ December 1978 and was
followed by a post-appraisal mission in October 1979. Negotiations
were held in Washington in February 1981.
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
2. None
III. Special Conditions
3.  CODAIK General Manager would prepare each year an annual work-
plan which would be sent to IDA for approval (para. 42).
4.  an evaluation study of the economic recovery fund system would be
prepared (para. 44).
The following would be additional conditions of Credit effectiveness:
5.  that CODAIK has been established under statutes satisfactory to the
Association (para. 38);
6.  that CODAIK General Manager has been employed (para. 39 (a));
7.  that all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the agree-
ment between the Federal Republic of Germany and Zaire, except for
the effectiveness of the IDA Development Credit Agreement, have been
met (para. 43);
8.  that the Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and CODAIK has
been signed (para. 43);
9.  that an account for CODAIK has been opened and that the Government
has paid its initial contribution of US$350,000 equivalent to the
initial working capital of CODAIK (para. 44).



