CREDIT NUMBER 1152 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1152 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             * 23, 1981, between REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project) by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letter addressed by the Association to
of the Borrower dated              , 198  the Association granted
an advance to the Borrower of $300,000 to assist in the financing
of the preparation of the Project;
(C) pursuant to the terms of such advance the amount
thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for in this Agreement;
(D) by exchange of letters, dated July 4, 1980 and Septem-
ber 2, 1980 between the Federal Republic of Germany and the
Republic of Zaire, the Borrower has obtained a grant in an amount
of one million six hundred thousand Deutsche Mark (DM 1,600,000)
(FRG Grant) to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and D
of the Project on terms and conditions as set forth in such
letters (FRG Project Agreement); and
(E) the Project will be carried out by a company to be
established by the Borrower with the name Compagnie pour le
D6veloppement Agricole Integr6 du Kwango-Kwilu (hereinafter
called CODAIK) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CODAIK a pcrtion
of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement. to be
entered into between the Borrower and CODAIK pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(b) "Project Area" means the following administrative zones
of the Borrower: Bulungu (about 12,000 km2), Idiofa (about 20,000
km2), Masi-Manimba (about 14,000 km2) and that part of the
administrative zone of Gungu in which the Gungu-Katuta Ranch
is located, all of which in the sub-region of Kwilu; and Feshi
(about 25,000 km2) in the sub-region of Kwango.
(c) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(d) "Economic Recovery Funds" means, for the purposes of
this Agreement, all funds being established pursuant to develop-
ment agreements (conventions de developpement), as defined by
the Borrower's Law No. 79-002, dated February 7, 1979, between the
Borrower and private companies, in particular Bralima, as such
funds will be authorized by the Borrower to be made available
for the purposes of establishing and maintaining CODAIK; and
(e) "GTZ" means the Deutsche Gesellschaft fUr Technische
Zusammenarbeit; GTZ is the agency acting for the linistry of
Economic Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany for the
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-3-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if. the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled on the
same date.
Section 2,03. Exc--ept as the Association may otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2,04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2,05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per anaum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in sem:Lannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commen2ing June 15, 1991, and ending December 15,
2030, each installmeat to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)


﻿-4-
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
Section 2.09. CODAIK is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CODAIK to carry
out Parts A through D of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide CODAIK,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, extension
staff, and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Parts E and F of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and economic practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (5) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to CODAIK
under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and CODAIK and on terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association;
the Subsidiary Agreement, shall provide, inter alia, that such
proceeds allocated to Categories (1) and (5) shall be made
available to CODAIK by way of grant and that such proceeds
allocated to Categories (2), (3) and (4) shall be made available
to CODAIK as payment by the Borrower for shares in CODAIK's
capital.
(d) Without any limitation or restri.ction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause CODAIK to perform in accordance with the


﻿-5-
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to enable CODAIK to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower: (a) shall cause CODAIK to open
an account in a commercial bank in the City of Kikwit for the
purposes of the Project; (b) shall deposit or shall cause to be
deposited in such account an initial amount of $350,000 equivalent
and (c) by the end of the first quarter of each year, shall
transfer or cause to be transferred funds sufficient to meet the
Borrower's contribution to the financing of Parts A through D of
the Project in each such year.
Section 3.03. In order to assist CODAIK in carrying out
Parts A through D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause CODAIK
to employ experts in management, aquaculture, marketing, agricul-
tural credit, livestock, and six technicians; the qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of all such ex-
perts and technicians have to be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to cause CODAIK to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by CODAIK to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause CODAIK to use all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause CODAIK to furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,


﻿- 6 -
specifications, quarterly and annual reports, contract documents
and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause CODAIK: (i) to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit for the Project, and to disclose their use
in the Project; (ii) to enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) to furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by CODAIK of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause CODAIK to prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
and CODAIK of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause CODAIK: (a) to prepare
and furnish to the Association, by November 1 in each year, an
annual work program to be carried out during the following
calendar year; (b) to afford the Association a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on such work program, before such work program


﻿shall be submitted to its Board of Directors, by December 15 in
each year; (c) to ensure that such work program shall be satis-
factory to the Associ-tion.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out t-he Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) By August 31, 1982 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Association, the borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Association, the study under Part E of
the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of Parts E and F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) use, or shall cause the
Economic Recovery Funds to be used, for the purposes of the Pro-
ject; and (b) shall eaGure that any other financing arrangement
for the Project will secure the continuation of the execution of
the Project and will be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, the Association and GTZ shall,
in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to each, jointly,
complete a mid-Project implementation review of all aspects of
the Project by October 15, 1982 or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Borrower, the Association and GTZ.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CODAIK to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices CODAIK's operations and
financial condition, including without limitation to the fore-
going, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures described in


﻿-8-
Categories 3 and 4 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals
for local expenditures are requested from the Credit Account on
the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause CODAIK to retain, until one
year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure and to enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause CODAIK: (i) to have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) to furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, an opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures have been used to make
payments for goods received, or works or services performed,
and that such goods, works and services were eligible for financ-
ing under this Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the
Project; and (iii) to furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
CODAIK and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the legal instruments under which CODAIK has
been established shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the


﻿-9-
ability of CODAIK to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b) any Economic Recovery Funds shall be cancelled or with-
drawn so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
CODAIK to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set
forth in the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the FRG Grant shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the FRG Project Agreement;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
termination is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7,01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the Effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) CODAIK has been established in accordance with the
legislation and regulations of the Borrower and its statutes shall
have been approved by the Association;
(b) the General Manager of CODAIK has been employed;


﻿- 10 -
(c) the Project Account has been opened and an amount of
$350,000 equivalent shall have been deposited pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and CODAIK; and
(e) the Association has been notified by the Federal
Republic of Germany that all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement under the FRG Project Agreement have been fulfilled,
subject only to the Effectiveness of this Agreement if such be
the case.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
CODAIK and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CODAIK in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date Nome      L 1)q21 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichevn.r shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Commissaire d'Etat of the Borrower respon-
sible for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
B.P. No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
DENFIN
Kinshasa                            21161
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Ak h     .Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Services of                  680,000          100%
experts and
technicians
under Parts A
through D
(2) Vehicles and office          380,000          100% of foreign
equipment for CODAIK;                        expenditures
and farm machinery                           and 80% of
and equipment under                          local
Parts B, C and D of                          expenditures
the Project
(3) Civil works, ex-             240,000          100% of foreign
cept construction                            expenditures
of aquaculture                        -      and 40% of
center                                       local
expenditures
(4) Construction of              110,000          65%
and equipment
for aquaculture
center
(5) Studies under                100,000          100% of foreign
Part D.2 of                                  expenditures
the Project
(6) Study under                   25,000          100% of foreign
Part E of                                    expenditures
the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category.                  SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7) Consultant ser-                250i000         100%
vices and equip-
ment under Part F
of the Project
(8) Refunding of prin-             250,000         100% of prin-
cipal of advance                              cipal amount
for Project                                   outstanding at
Preparation                                   Effective Date
(9) Unallocated                    365,000
TOTAL        2,400,000
2.   Any unpaid charges on the advance for the preparation of the
Project withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement
will be taken from Category (9) above.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign' expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percenLage then


﻿-14-
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main purpose of the Project is to establish and promote
the institutional capacity necessary for the successful carrying
out of the Borrower's integrated long-term program for agricul-
tural development in its Kwango and Kwilu sub-regions, including
the start of CODAIK's operations, and to plan, test and evaluate
technical "packages" and implementation strategies applicable to
future projects within such program.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Establishment and operation of a training and agricultural
extension system for the Project Area.
Part B:
Development of a cattle breeding ranch.
Part C:
1. Establishment and operation of marketing services and
infrastructure for the sale of agricultural produce,
livestock and fish.
2. Establishment and operation of an experimental credit
program for the sale to farmers of inputs such as seeds,
planting materials, tools, simple agricultural produce
processing equipment and breeding stock.
Part D:
1. Establishment and operation of an applied research
program to ascertain the crops, inputs and species of
fish best adapted to the Project Area, including con-
struction and equipping of an aquaculture center.
2. Studies required for the preparation of future related
projects within the Borrower's above-mentioned program.


﻿- 16 -
Part E:
Study to evaluate the economic and financial viability of the
Economic Recovery Funds.
Part F:
Improvement of the macro-economic planning capability of the
Commissariat Gfneral au Plan of the Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding:
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the public-
ation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers:
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the


﻿- 18 -
territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Bor-
rower and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
territory of the Borrower equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 19 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures:
1.   Contracts for the supply of vehicles, equipment and materials
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $80,000 may be
awarded on the basis of the Borrower's standard procurement
procedures, provided, however, that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the amount of the contracts so awarded shall not,
in the aggregate, exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
the Borrower's standard procurement procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association:
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or more:
(a) before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for i.ts comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedurgs :,to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders;
(b) after bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination;


﻿- 20 -
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited; and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the .Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 L.
FORSECRETARY


