Report No. 511a-GA                                                                            FILE  COpy
Appraisal of a Second Education Project
in Gabon
November 18, 1974
Education Division
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be publîshed, quoted or cited wîthout Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00  = CFAF 250
CFAF 1,000 - US$ 4.00
ESURES AND BQUIVALENTS
aeter (m) = 3.28 ft.
square meter (m2) - 10.76 8q ft
hectare (ha) - 2.47 acres
FISCA  nuR
January 1 - Deceiber 31



GABON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .......................  i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .................,.,.....           ..    1
Il.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT       . ......2
A.   The Country and the Economy      .     .           2
B.   The Development of Human Resources. .              3
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM...                     4
A.   Overall Problems and Issues .          .           5
B.   Specific Problems and Issues   .6
C.   Education - Costs and Financing       8..
D.   The Role of the Bank Project                       9
IV.   THE PROJECT  ....................................   10
A.   General  ..........  .    .........................   10
B.   The Project Components  .......... ..........  10
C.   Cost of the Project  .......................  16
V.   IMPLEMENTATION  ...................                     18
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........   20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Gabon in October/November 1973. The mission consisted of Messrs. E.B.
Sawaya (economist and mission leader), J. Crosnier (rural education special-
ist), R. Romain (general educator) and P. Niepoort (architect), all of the
Bank; Messrs. H. Baritsch (technical educator) and R. Aujame (architect)
of UNESCO; and Mr. J. Guillard (forestry education specialist/consultant).
Mr. E. Chittleburgh (technical educator) also contributed to this report.



Table of Contents (Continued)
APPENDICES
I.   Description of the Education and Training System
Il.   Reform and Renovation of the Education System
III.   Education - Costs and Future Availability of Resources
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Distribution of GDP by Sector of Origin, 1972
3.   Structure of Employnent in the Modern Sector, 1967-1970
4.   Private Sector:  Manpower Needs by Skill, 1971-1975
5.   Publications Unit - Staff Requirements
6a.   Summary of Estimated Costs
6b.   Summary of Expenditures
7.   Capital Unit Costs per Project Item
8a.   Contingency Allowances
8b.   Price Contingency Assumptions
9a.   Implementation Schedule I
9b.   Implementation Schedule II
10.   IBRD Financing by Category of Expenditure
11.   Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Structure of Education System - October 1973
2.   Organizational Structure - Ministry of Education
3.   Enrollments in Formal Education System
MAP
IBRD 11116R (August 1974) Gabon - Second Education Project



GLOSSARI OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAC       Baccalauréat
BEI       Brevet d'Etudes Industrielles - Technician Certificate
BEPC      Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle - Lower Secondary School Certificate
CEFT      Centre d'Enseignement et de Formation Technique - (Reformed) Lover
Secondary Technical School
CEPE      Certificat d'Etudes Primaires Elementaires - Primary School
Leaving Certificate
CET       Collège d'Enseignement Technique - (Existing) Lower Secondary
Technical School
ENI       Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs - Primary Teacher Training School
ENS       Ecole Normale Supérieure - Secondary Teacher Training School
ENSET     Ecole Normale Supérieure d'Enseignement Technique - Technical
Teacher Training College
IT        Initiation à la Technologie - Introduction to Technology Course
IPN       Institut Pédagogique National - National Pedagogical Institute
MOE       Ministry of Education and Scientific Research






GABON
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                   267,000 km2
Population (estimated - 1973)          525,000 persons
Density                                  1.97 persons/km2
GNP per capita (1971)                  US$690
Education
Enrollment
Enrollment (1971/2)                         Number            Ratio
Primary                                   105,600             153%
Secondary                                    9,400             20%
Higher:   Total                                846             n.a.
In Gabon                                   (352)
Abroad                                     (h94)
Teachers                Number           % Expatriate
Primary                  2311                  3.8%
Secondary                h53                 72.6%
Higher                    n.a.                 n.a.
Education Finance (1973)
Total public recurrent
expenditure on edication                   CFAF 4.9 billion
As % of total public recurrent
expenditure                                     22.1%
Total public capital expenditure
on education                              CFAF 539 million
As % of total public capital
expenditure                                      6.8%






GABON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project for Gabon, for
which a loan of US$5.0 million is proposed.
ii.       In quantitative terms, the development of Gabon's formal education
system has been remarkable.  Qualitatively, however, it still suffers from
major problems. The Government is therefore initiating preparation of a
comprehensive reform effort to improve the systemts response to the country's
actual socio-economic situation and future prospects. At the same time it
is introducing the following logical, interim measures:
(a) the improvement, expansion and diversification of technical
education; and the improvement of the technological base for
all students going through secondary education;
(b) the improvement of the system's efficiency in general and of
individual institutions in particular.
iii.      The proposed project has been conceived within this framework as
well as to reinforce the achievement of the first project objectives. It
would consist of:
A.   Technical education facilities
1.   An Upper Secondary Technical School to train, in cooperation
with industry, about 100 technicians per year, in special-
izations for which training facilities do not now exist in
Gabon, particularly in mechanical maintenance and repair,
electronics, industrial refrigeration and marine mechanics.
2.   A Lower Secondary Technical School to train, also in close
cooperation with industry, about 130 skilled workers per
year capable of becoming lower-level technicians or shop
foremen.  The specializations would include general metal-
work, auto-mechanics, building construction and electrical
installation and maintenance.
3.   The introduction of technology into the curriculum of the
lower secondary schools. The courses would be developed
and tried on a pilot basis in two institutions in the
Libreville area.



- ii -
B.   Improvements to existing institutions
1.   The enrollments at the National School of Commerce, which
already competently trains personnel in business subjects,
would increase from 70 at present to 120 students through
provision of an additional 50 boarding places. This would
also improve utilization of the school's staff and facilities.
2.   The enrollments at the National Forestry School, which trains
forestry personnel for Gabon and three neighboring countries,
would increase from 64 to 100 through provision of additional
classrooms and dormitories. Again, this would improve uti-
lization of the school's staff and facilities.
3.   In order to supply primary school students and others with
the required written materials, a Publications Unit would
be set up within the existing National Pedagogical Insti-
tute to improve Gabon's ability to produce suitable teaching
materials and to increase their supply.  This should result
in greater teaching efficiency and improve the studentst
educational achievement.
iv.       The project would also include a Technical Assistance component
in relation with:
(a) reform of the education system;
(b) preparation of plans and programs for the newly established
Management Institute and the Publications Unit;
(c) Project Administration.
v.        A project unit would be established within the Ministry of Public
Works to undertake project implementation in conformity with existing admin-
istrative structures. For purposes of policy making and coordination, there
will be a Project Committee that will include representatives of all &overn-
ment agencies involved and that will be headed by the Project Director. It
would use consultant architects for design and supervision of construction.
Architects acceptable to the Bank have already been pre-selected, their con-
tracts have been reviewed and negotiated and would be signed soon. This is
expected to accelerate project implementation. US$50,000 reallocated from
the Bank's first education project in Gabon is covering the initial cost of
these services. Additional funds are needed and retroactive financing of up
to US$50,000 is recommended.
vi.       Procurement.  Contracts for building works, furniture and equipment
would be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines. The building works are within the capacity of
Gabon's industry. To facilitate delivery to each project institution, equip-
ment would be grouped in lots of at least US$40,000 and the same for furniture.



- iii -
Bids would be invited for several lots at the same time. Local manufacturers
of furniture would be given a margin of preference by adding 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing imports to said price or the applicable customs duties and
import taxes, whichever is lower. Numerous small items which cannot be satis-
factorily grouped into lots would be purchased locally on the basis of quota-
tions following local procedures; the total amount would not exceed US$120,000
or about 10% of the gross costs of furniture and equipment during project
execution.
vii.      The total project costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated
at US$8.1 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$5.0
million equal to the amount of the loan proposed. The project would be
completed in about five years.
viii.     The proposed project forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan to
Gabon of US$5.0 million equivalent for a period of 15 years including a
grace period of 4 years. Funds not disbursed at completion of the project
would be cancelled.






GABON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank first assisted education in Gabon with a loan of US$1.8
million, signed in June 1968 (Loan 540-GA). The project aimed to help
increase Gabonese participation in the country's economic activity by
(a) expanding the capacity of local institutions in general secondary
education, primary teacher training and accelerated vocational training;
(b) increasing the supply of secondary teachers through a fellowship program;
(c) supporting the secondary education curriculum improvement effort; and
(d) providing the technical assistance required for the project institutions.
1.02      The project is completed.  Construction cost over-runs that
occurred during execution were met by reallocating the funds released when
the French bilateral aid agency, FAC, decided to finance the purchase of
equipment for some of the project institutions.  The latest estimates of
completion cost indicate that a surplus of IJS$50,000 will remain; the Govern-
ment has requested, and the Bank has agreed, that this sum be used to finance
the preparation of the proposed second education project.
1.03      It appears that all of the first project's institutions will be
able to accomplish their objectives except the primary teachers training
college in Libreville, which is encountering temporary difficulty in attract-
ing candidates (para. 3.08). The objectives of the second project are essen-
tially the same as those of the first and reflect the changes in the country
resulting from its development since 1968. Broadly, these objectives are
to continue the reform effort of the education/training system and to improve
and expand technical education, including the training of manpower for the
commercial and forestry sectors.
1.04      The project was identified by a 'nesco project identification
mission in February/March 1973, and was prepared and appraised in October/
November 1973 by a mission composed of Messrs. E.B. Sawaya (economist and
mission leader), J. Crosnier (rural education specialist), R. Romain (general
educator) and P. Niepoort (architect), all of the Bank; Messrs. H. Baritsch
(technical educator) and R. Aujame (architect) of Unesco; and Mr. J. Guillard
(forestry education specialist/consultant). Mr. E. Chittleburgh (technical
educator, Bank) also contributed to this report.



- 2 -
II. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
A.   The Country and the Economy
2.01      Gabon, with an area nearly half that of France, has a population
of only about 525,000 characterized by one of the lowest growth rates in
Africa (about 1% p.a. during 1961-70). The country is well endowed with
natural resources such as forests, manganese, petroleum, uranium and the
yet untapped rich iron-ore deposits in Belinga. The extractive, export-
oriented industries--mining and foresty--account for the bulk of the
modern sector's production (Annex 2) and provide the basis of the economy's
growth and development.
2.02      The potential of the abundant land remains less than fully exploited.
The predominant crops are cassava and bananas and the farming methods are
traditional, resulting in very low productivity. The production of such
crops as cocoa and coffee in the north and experimentation with rice and
sugarcane in the south are handicapped by inadequate farming techniques along
with the lack of other necessary inputs and of processing and distribution
facilities, and the ongoing rural emigration, particularly of young people,
especially in the 15-30 age group. The developmental problems of the rural
sector are being addressed by the Government and other interested agencies
whether multilateral or bilateral.
2.03      The growth of the modern sector, on the other hand, has been
rapid due to the considerable investments in the extractive industries,
which are largely based in or close to urban areas, and to the pattern
of public expenditures and investments, which tended to favor the urban/
modern sector.
2.04      Forestr , now being exploited by concession, has also been a
leading modern economic activity in Gabon because the country has large
reserves of timber which are in strong worldwide demand. There have been
two major deficiencies in this sector: (a) the concessionaires have con-
centrated on exploitation and neglected forest management, and (b) employ-
ment in the sector is dominated by expatriates. Hence, better methods of
forest utilization must be adopted and a greater effort made to train
qualified forestrv staff to fill existing vacancies in the Government's
forestry service, replace expatriates progressively, and meet the sector's
increasing employment opportunities.
2.05      The country will continue to rely on natural resource exploitation
as a basis for economic growth until such time as processing industries are
established and developed. The Second Development Plan (1971-1975) gave
to the extractive and forestry industries a leading role, but given that
Gabonts comparative advantage lies in the abundance of its natural resources,
it is obvious that transformation industries will also be increasing in
importance. Measures which would facilitate the rapid and efficient develop-
ment of industry include, among others, the improvement of technical education,
which should therefore be of a high priority.



- 3 -
B.   The Development of Human Resources
2.06      The number of Gabonese living in settlements of 2,000 or more
inhabitants reached an estimated 200,000 by the end of 1973. The major
factors in the population movement from rural into urban areas have been
the availability of jobs and the higher incomes earned in the modern private
and public sectors, as well as the availability of social services. This,
in turn, has led to (a) further increasing the demand for such social services
as housing, education, health and transportation; (b) decreasing the supply
of traditional foodstuffs from rural areas and particularly from those close
to towns where emigration is strongest; and (c) increasing the urban demand
for food, causing shortages that have thus far been met by imports.
2.07      Gabon's economic development is severely constrained by its limited
human resources. Besides the small size of the pouplation, the proportion of
the economically active population is relatively less, and the productive
life-span (35 years only) is shorter than that of similarly situated countries.
More than half of the labor force (estimated at 274,000 in 1970) is still
involved in subsistence agriculture. In the last few years many agricultural
laborers joined the urban labor force, but due to ill health, malnutrition
and lack of training, their productivity is low and many of them can under-
take only unskilled work.
2.08      Data for 1970, the latest year for which suitable information is
available, show that wage/salaried employment in the modern sector was about
74,000, of whom 57,000 or 77% were in the private sector (Annex 3). The data
also show that the modern sector relies heavily on both African and European
expatriate manpower: the non-Gabonese totaled 4,600, with almost all of them
employed in the private sector; about 3,400 or 74% were either technicians or
professionals. The public sector's reliance on expatriates is heaviest in
education.
2.09      Public sector employment was estimated at 17,000 in 1970 and for
many years it attracted a large proportion of the educated Gabonese manpower.
However, some branches of the civil service are now reaching the limit of
their absorptive capacity, while others such as the forestry service, rural
development and teaching still have sizeable shortages.
2.10      A project under UNDP auspices is financing surveys that aim to
remedy the almost complete lack of data useful for manpower planning. Until
these surveys are completed, the number and location of expatriates give at
least an indication of the manpower requirements for Gabonization. In parti-
cular the need to increase Gabonese participation in managing the modern
sector is suggested by the fact that they form only 23% of the managers and
administrators. At this stage, however, action would have to be limited to
(a) the provision of technical assistance with a specific training responsi-
bility and fellowships (para. 3.12) until the National University, which
appears to be the appropriate place to begin management education, is able
to establish the prerequisite complementary programs, expand enrollments to
an adequate level, and train the necessary teaching staff; and (b) the



- 4 -
manpower studies under way have determined the exact magnitude and nature
of managerial needs. For the short term, it may be less costly to train
potential Gabonese managers abroad.
2.11      With regard to additional manpower requirements, it has been
estimated that on the aggregate 19,000 persons will be needed to fill new
jobs at all levels during 1971-75 and at least the same number of new jobs
would be created during 1976-80. Of this total, about 10,000 may be either
skilled workers, technicians or professionals (Annex 4). The need is great-
est (a) at the skilled worker level: for mechanical, metal and electrical
workers as well as secretaries and stenographers; (b) at the technician
level: for persons qualified in electricity, electronics, marine mechanics,
teaching, accountancy, and para-medical work; and (c) at the professional
level: for doctors, engineers, managers, administrators, secondary and
higher level teachers, and registered nurses. Field investigations showed
that skills are especially needed to repair and maintain industrial instal-
lations and equipment which Gabon will continue to import in the foreseeable
future.
2.12      In summary, in view of its small population, Gabon needs an effec-
tive policy for the development of its human resources to better mobilize
its labor force and improve its productivity. On the one hand, Gabon's
labor force will have to adapt from a rural to an urban environment. On
the other, within the modern sector, the structure of employment wlll undergo
change, resulting in a larger proportion of the educated manpower having to
find jobs in the private sector, which is becoming predominantly industrial.
The education/training system will have to facilitate this transition by
g iving greater emphasis to the value of productivity and the discipline of
industrial work. There is also a need to alter the emphasis on the types
of education/training offered so that there can be greater Gabonese par-
ticipation at the professional, managerial and technician levels and so
that future labor market shortages can increasingly be met without resort
to the hiring of expatriates.
2.13      The proposed project would assist in achieving these objectives
through (a) the new course of "Initiation a la Technologie" designed to
produce the basic knowledge, favorable attitudes and discipline in secondary
school students; (b) the new Upper Secondary Technical School in Port Gentil
and the new Lower Secondary Technical School in Libreville, which would re-
duce the shortages of technicians and skilled workers; and (c) the National
School for Forestry and the National School of Commerce, which would in-
crease the output in their respective fields.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
3.01      The Ministry of Education and Scientific Research (MOE) is the main
Government agency responsible for general and technical education as well as
for educational extension. Other ministries operate achools closely related
to their own activities such as the National Forestry School under the Ministry



- 5 -
of Forestry and Water Resources. The formal education system is inspired by
the classical French model and comprises a six-year primary cycle followed by
seven years of secondary education leading to the "Baccalaureat" (BAC). High-
er education comprises mainly the National University, which started operations
in 1970 and will have fully operational three-year programs by 1975. Education
is in principle free and compulsory for all Gabonese in the 6-16 age group.
Curricula are prescribed by MOE for both public and private institutions, and
French remains the language of instruction. A detailed description of the
educational system is given in Appendix I and Chart 1.
The following table summarizes some of the key data.
Primary and Secondary Education, 1971-72
Estimated %
Level                     of indicated                            %      Ratio
age group in  No. of           %    Gabonese  teachers/
(Age Group)  Enrollment    population   Teachers    trained  trained  pupils
Primary
(6-11 years)  105,601         153%/a      2,311         37.5%    35.6%    1:46
Secondary
(12-18 years)   9,387          20%          453         70.4%    15.2%    1:21
/a   This appears abnormally high; however, reliable census data are not
available, and many children over the age of 11 are enrolled.
The rest of this chapter focuses on the discussion of those aspects that pro-
vide the educational justification for the proposed project.
A.   Overall Problems and Issues
3.02      Gabon's formal education system suffers from problems whose resolu-
tion is necessary if education's role is to become more effective and its
contribution to the country's development is to be maximized.  Firstly, there
is in practice excessive emphasis on the preparation of some students for
further education, and this has overridden the preparation of others for
entering the labor market. This is reflected in the under-emphasis on prac-
tical subjects, in the national examinations which test mainly one's readiness
to go on to further education, and in the slow pace of curriculum reviews and
adaptation to fit the realities of Gabon.
3.03      Secondly, there are the interrelated problems of the structure and
content of education. The structure of education has remained the same des-
pite the drastic changes that Gabon's economy and labor market have experienced
in recent years; this created discrepancies and inconsistencies within the
labor market (e.g., para. 3.10). The content of education continues to be
remotely related to the economic and cultural situation of Gabon. This has



-6-
been identified by the Government as a key issue in education, requiring a
comprehensive corrective effort. The development of curricula suitable for
local needs and for any necessary flow of students to institutions in the
rest of Francophone Africa or elsewhere will be assisted by this effort and
reinforced by the increased supply of qualified Gabonese educators from the
ongoing expansion of the Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS) and the introduction
of the National University's "licence" programs.
3.04      A third major difficulty lies in the lack of suitable printed
materials to support local attempts at improving the relevance of history,
geography, literature and natural science courses at the secondary level,
some texts for which are awaiting printing.
3.05      At all levels, the situation is aggravated by out-of-date teaching
methods and the large proportion of under-qualified teachers. Expanded and
improved teacher training (paras. 3.08, 3.09, 3.11) is expected to help
resolve the problems of teaching methods and qualification, and the proposed
Publications Unit would provide the base from which an effort could be mounted
to increase the supply and effective use of teaching materials.
3.06      Educational planning and administration (Chart 2) are hampered mainly
by: (a) the lack of (i) an official perspective plan, (ii) trained staff in
the MOE Planning Unit (at present there is only one qualified planner),
(iii) essential data on the population, enrollments and the country's man-
power needs; and (b) the pressure of rapidly increasing enrollment in recent
years. Under these circumstances, education administration was routine and
when emergencies occurred the response was ad hoc.
3.07      The Gabonese authorities have therefore requested the assistance of
UNDP and Unesco (paras. 4.17-4.18; Appendix II) to help them develop an educa-
tional plan. The MOE Planning Unit should be made responsible for this reform
effort, and in order to be able to carry out the job it should be considerably
strengthened. The UNDP/Unesco project does not, however, include sufficient
manpower to undertake all the tasks necessary in such an effort, particularly
with respect to curriculum reform. The proposed project would provide the
specialist services necessary for the detailed design, planning and develop-
ment of curricula as well as the necessary training of Gabonese for the MOE
Planning Unit.
B.   Specific Problems and Issues
3.08      At the primary level, the most important problems are the high pro-
portion of untrained teachers (68%) and the lack of teaching materials which
combine to produce low student educational attainment. The shortage of teach-
ing materials will be resolved by the proposed Publications Unit. Despite
the larger output in recent years of BEPC and BAC holders, the number of
applicants to primary teacher training institutions has been declining. In
tact, the Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs (ENI), which was financed under the
bank's first loan, is experiencing difficulty in attracting enough appli-
rants. One reason could be the lack of incentives as reflected by the terms
and conditions of work and the hardships involved in serving outside the



major urban centers. The Government confirmed that as part of its educational
objectives it intends to evaluate the relative attractiveness of the primary
teaching profession and introduce remedial measures.
3.09      One major problem in secondary education is the continued emphasis
in terms of enrollments and curricula on the general and academic as opposed
to the vocational and technical, despite the increasing industrial nature of
the economy (paras. 2.11-2.12). Thus there is need to accelerate the curri-
culum reform effort which is proceeding in cooperation with other African
francophone countries; to change the teaching methods and to use more and
better teaching materials. The proposed project would assist in meeting
these needs through its support for:
(i) introducing the "Initiation a la Technologie" course
into two lower secondary schools in Libreville; and
(ii) establishing a Publications Unit for teaching materials
under the Institut Pedagogique National (IPN).
This would be in addition to the Canadian assistance to ENS for the training
of general secondary teachers of whom 72% are at present expatriates.
3.10      The structure and content of secondary technical education have
remained the same for many years, despite the country's increasingly in-
dustrial character. For instance, the lower secondary schools (C.E.T.1s)
cannot meet the need for skilled workers with the right amount of technical
and general education to enable them, after some work experience, to become
workshop foremen or lower-level technicians. The proposed Bank project vould
therefore include one Technical School in Libreville that focuses on train-
ing precisely that kind of skilled worker. The project would also provide an
Upper Secondary Technical School in Port-Gentil to produce technicians in
specializations for which training facilities are nov non-existent.
3.11      Properly trained technical teachers are presently in short supply,
mainly due to the lack of technical teacher training facilities. Whatever
training has been done until now, was done in France and the results have not
been completely satisfactory. In 1973, a Presidential Decree created the
Ecole Normale Superieure de l'Enseignement Technique (ENSET), for which
technical assistance would be provided under a UNDP/Unesco project. Con-
sidering that at the time this project to assist ENSET (Appendix II) was
conceived the plans for the development of technical education did not
foresee the establishment of the two institutions now included in the pro-
posed Bank project, it becomes imperative to draft the Project Agreement
between the Governnent, UNDP and Unesco so that ENSET's programs and enroll-
ments will become consistent with the teacher requirements of the proposed
two new institutions.
3.12      Higher education is offered at various institutions including the
National University, which has programs in the humanities, law, economics,
science, engineering and management. The National Institute of Management,
which was legally established at the University in 1973, uses the same



-8-
premises as the Faculty of Law and Economics and its first-year students
follow the same program as the law and economics students. The combined
enrollment of all three programs was about 65 students last year. The
staff is mostly expatriate, some of whom are French military volunteers.
The Institute receives some aid under the Technical Assistance Agreement
between Gabon and France but further assistance is needed to help the Insti-
tute plan to meet the country's managerial requirements (para. 2.10). The
proposed project would provide one man-year of expertes services necessary
for the preparation of a development plan and program of operations for the
Institute, as well as 4 man-years of fellowships to help train Gabonese
teaching staff. The Government gave assurances that by June 30, 1975, it will
select two Gabonese, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to be trained
under these followships for the Institute and to guarantee their employment
with it.
3.13      MOE's educational extension service (Service de l'Education Popu-
laire) is responsible for the program directed at primary school dropouts
and adult illiterates. This Service is responsible for the functional
literacy content of integrated rural development projects. This is accom-
plished through adult classes, the use of educational radio, the preparation
and distribution of educational materials, and the provision of in-field
assistance.  However, the program is hampered by the shortage of printed
materials which would be remedied by the proposed Publications Unit. The
Service de l'Education Populaire would also obtain properly trained field
staff from the National School for Training Rural Development Staff which
the Government intends to establish at Oyem.
3.14      Responsibility for planning and supervising vocational training
(including upgrading training) was transferred in 1973 from a coordinating
committee to a newly created body -- Agence Nationale de Formation et de
Perfectionnement Professionnels -- which is benefiting now from UNDP/ILO
assistance. The new agency seems well suited for its objectives and its
programs will be financed out of earmarked funds from a payroll tax.
C.   Education - Costs and Financing (Appendix III)
3.15      By 1971 the share of total public expenditure on education reached
5,' of GNP and it is expected to amount to 22% of total recurrent public ex-
penditure in 1974 against 17% in 1967. Nevertheless, the need for educational
expansion would probably justify a larger allocation than the 1.2% of a plan-
ned total investment of CFAF 150 billion in the Second Plan (1971-75). To
effectively utilize the resources devoted to education and to minimize the
financial requirements of the system's expansion, the Government should focus
on:
(a) improving the efficiency of individual institutions (e.g.,
the National Forestry School (paras. 4.11-4.12) and the
National School of Commerce (paras. 4.08-4.10), which
would be assisted by the proposed project;



- 9 -
(b) limiting new investments to cases where training abroad
is the less economical alternative; and
(c) restricting the use and amount of student scholarships and
subsidies.
3.16      Given the plans that call for an education system that could better
meet economic, social and educational priorities, it is necessary that re-
current expenditures on education be increased. It is estimated that the
minimum but feasible rate of increase in educational recurrent expenditures
would be 8% p.a. in real terms during 1974-1980 (as compared with 5.5% p.a.
in current prices during 1968-1972) and this would amount to CFAF 7.4 billion
in 1980.
D.   The Role of the Bank Project
3.17      The previous paragraphs have indicated the clear need and priori-
ties for further educational development. Although Gabon has not yet prepared
a specific plan, the Government proposes to undertake the following logical
interim measures which would fit within the objectives which such a plan would
emphasize:
(a)  the initiation and promotion of integrated rural development;
(b)  the improvement, expansion and diversification of technical
education as well as the filling of gaps in this sub-sector s
structure;
(c)  the improvement of the system's efficiency in general and
of individual institutions in particular;
(d)  an early introduction to the technological environment as
part of general education; and
(e)  improvement of the teaching of French.
3.18      The proposed project aims to support the Governnent's long-range
reform efforts and to assist in implementing the interim measures in the
following areas:
(a)  The reform of technical education in collaboration with
prospective employers by (i) supporting the development of
new methods and curricula at the lower level (grades 7-10)
for the training of skilled workers whose career prospects
would be brighter than those trained at the CETs; and (ii)
expanding, diversifying and increasing the number of specia-
lizations at the middle level (grades 9-12) so as to eventually
reduce the country's dependence on expatriate technicians.



- 10 -
(b)  The improvement of the efficiency of some existing and re-
quired institutions by improving the rate of staff and
facility utilization through measures that would increase
enrollments to levels justified by intermediate and long-
term manpower needs.
(c)  The development and testing of courses in "Initiation a la
Technologie" for the lower-secondary school students in the
Libreville area; these courses would afterwards be extended,
in appropriate form, to other areas of the country.
(d)  The establishment of the foundation for the reform of
curricula and the production of suitable teaching materials.
(e)  The provision of technical assistance to the project for
the reform of the education/training system.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General
4.01      The proposed project would finance:
(a) the construction of and/or equipment for:
(i)  a new upper secondary technical school in Port Gentil;
(ii)  a new lower secondary technical school in Libreville;
(iii)  additional boarding places for the existing National
Secondary School of Commerce in Port Gentil;
(iv)  additional boarding places and classrooms for the
existing National Forestry School in Cap Esterias;
(v)  the introduction of the "Initiation a la Technologie"
course at the Lycee Leon M'Ba and the College Moderne
Akebe, both in Libreville; and
(vi)  the Publications Unit in Libreville.
(b) The provision of:
(i) 15 man-months of specialist services and 51 man-months
of fellowships for the institution in (a-vi);



- il -
(ii)  66 mian-months of specialist services and 45 man-months
of fellowships for the reform of education project as
well as 12 man-months of specialist services and 48 man-
months of fellowships for the National Management
Institute; and
(iii) 3 man-years for the deputy director/architect of the
project.
B.   The Project Components
Upper Secondary Technical School - Port Gentil
4.02      The objectives of this new national school would be to provide for
terminal technician training in specializations that so far are not available
in Gabon (para. 2.11) and for a new form of cooperation between industry and
technical education. Because it offers this new training, its role would
be complementary to the other national institution for technician training
located in Libreville -- the Lycee Technique Albert Bernard Bongo. Port
Gentil has been chosen as the location because it contains the industries
that need the school's graduates most, and that would provide the trainees
with the largest opportunity for industrial experience. The program would
consist of four-year courses in four specializations: mechanical repair and
maintenance, industrial refrigeration, electronics and marine mechanics, and
would include two six-week periods of in-service industrial experience.
Because of the decisive role of the school/industry relationship, the programs
should be well related to the realities of industrial work-life and this
should be reflected in the school's administration which should include a
Governing Council with appropriate representation. Curricula would be de-
signed with due regard to the job requirements in Gabon as determined jointly
between the school and industry.  Candidates would be selected nationwide
from among students who have finished grade 8, but on the basis of results of
aptitude tests and admission standards for each specialty. Graduates would
be awarded the BEI upon completing both theoretical and practical examina-
tions, and would be assisted in obtaining employment by a placement committee
consisting of teachers and employers.
4.03      The school is designed to enroll a total of 480 students and to
graduate 100 annually, i.e., about 25 in each of the four specializations.
There would be a common technology laboratory and a comprehensive workshop
for each specialization; the latter would be organized in functional sub-units.
The required teaching staff is about 35 and they are expected to be trained at
ENSET (para. 3.11). Until then, however, teachers would have to be obtained
by the Government from either bilateral sources or by directly hiring them
abroad.
4.04      The project would finance the construction of and equipment for
the teaching and boarding facilities. Two separate but reasonably close sites
are envisaged for the teaching and boarding facilities. During negotiations
the Government gave assurances that it will, by December 31, 1975, (i) have



- 12 -
taken the necessary steps to establish and operate the School under the MOE,
with a Governing Council including representatives from the MOE, School,
"Agence Nationale", ENSET, National Pedagogical Institute, industry and workers'
unions, having the responsibility for defining and coordinating the Schools'
relationship with industry; (ii) give the School's administration the power
to establish its own admission rules, programs, curricula and examination
standards and to appoint respective committees with appropriate representa-
tion; (iii) establish a placement service to assist the graduates in obtaining
employment and a tracer system to follow-up the progress of graduates' careers.
Lower Secondary Technical School - Libreville
4.05      The objective of the Centre d'Enseignement et de Formation Technique
(CEFT) is to train skilled workers capable of becoming (after some work ex-
perience) lower level technicians (paras. 2.11, 3.10). Its role is to fill
a gap in the structure of lower level technical education and to meet a large
shortage of this type of skilled worker. The CEFT will offer four-year
programs in general metalwork, auto-mechanics, building construction and
electrical installation and maintenance. Pre-requisite to the successful
operation of the CEFT are close links with industry and with the Agence
Nationale de Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnels (para. 3.14).
The CEFT should thus have a Governing Council with appropriate representation.
The curriculum of the CEFT would also be well articulated with the rest of
the system allowing: (i) a few talented students to transfer to either of
the two national technician training institutions to complete their studies;
(ii) a few students who have successfully completed grade 8 in general second-
ary courses that include the "Initiation a la Technologie" course to join
the last two years of the CEFT courses; and (iii) students who fail to com-
plete the four-year courses but have finished at least the first two years,
to find employment as trainee skilled workers.
4.06      The CEFT is designed for a total capacity of 600 places and an out-
put of about 130 in the four specializations. Candidates would be recruited
from primary school graduates after successfully passing an aptitude test
and the C.E.P.E. The teaching staff required would be 36 and they are ex-
pected to be trained at ENSET (para. 3.11). Until then, teachers would have
to be obtained by the Government from either bilateral sources or by directly
hiring them abroad.
4.07      The project would finance the construction cf, and equipment for,
teaching facilities on a site adjacent to that of ENSET and very close to the
ENI and ENS. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will,
by December 31, 1975, (i) have taken the necessary steps to establish and
operate the CEFT under the MOE, with a Governing Council including representa-
tives from the CEFT, MOE, "Agence Nationale", ENSET, National Pedagogical
Institute, industry and workers' unions; (ii) give the administration of the
CEFlT the power to establish its own admission rules, programs, curricula and
examination standards.



- 13 -
National School of Commerce - Port Gentil
4.08      The objective of this school is to supply personnel, well trained
in business subjects, to commerce and industry (para. 2.11). It is practi-
cally the only institution in the whole system of commercial education in Gabon
(Appendix I) that produces graduates who are keenly sought by employers. This
is attributed to (i) its semi-autonomous status under the MOE, i.e., it estab-
lishes and designs its own curricula and issues its own diplomas; (ii) its
very well trained staff; and (iii) its well-equipped teaching facilities and
up-to-date curricula.
4.09     'The staff and facilities are highly under-utilized because the
shortage of low-cost housing in Port Gentil discourages many students else-
where in the country from enrolling in this "national" school. To improve
the efficiency of this school and reduce the shortage of competent commercial
personnel, enrollment should be increased from the present 70 to about 120 and
the number of boarding places from the existing 24 to a total of 74.
4.10      The project would finance the construction of 50 new boarding places
for this school. To minimize the costs of building and operating them, the
site has been chosen on an adjacent lot that includes the existing dormitory
and that would be also the site for the dormitory of the Upper Secondary
Technical School proposed for financing under this project (para. 4.04). During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that at least 50 places in the
boarding complex, to be financed under this project, will be specifically
allocatçd to the students of the National School of Commerce.
National Forestry School -- Cap Esterias
4.11      This is a regional school whose objective is to supply the techni-
cians required by the Goverrnent's forestry services and by forestry employers
in Gabon and neighboring countries (para. 2.04). It offers two programs, one
is secondary and the other post-secondary. The school's location .t Cap
Esterias which is about 25 kms. from Libreville, but next to a national forest,
is ideal. Its Gabonese graduates have found employment mainly in the public
sector, but demand from the private sector has been increasing during the last
few years. The teaching staff is mostly expatriate and is provided under a
I'NDP/FAO project and there are plans for training Gabonese counterparts. The
school's facilities are appropriate and adequate except that there is need
for additional boarding and classroom spaces. The provision of such spaces
would improve the utilization of the staff through increasing enrollment.
4.12      The project would finance the construction of and equipment for new
boarding and classrooms, as well as the conversion of unsuitable classrooms
into either boarding or library facilities. This would allow the school to
increase its enrollment to meet its 1980 target, which is well within the
manpower requirements of the countries that rely on this institution.



- 14 -
Initiation a la Technologie
4.13      The objective of this project item is to assist the Government in
an essential part of its efforts to reform the education system. The Initia-
tion a la Technologie course will introduce lower-secondary students to the
evolving state of technology into which Gabon is rapidly moving. It will
(a) emphasize the role of industry in modern life, (b) demonstrate and give
practice in some of the common basic skills and operations typical of a tech-
nological environment, and (c) inform students of the diverse career possibili-
ties within industry. It is expected that this will both enrich their under-
standing of technology and greater dispose them to opt for further training
leading to industrial employment. The project item will pilot this course in
two schaols in the Libreville area and it is expected that eventually it will
be introduced into all secondary schools in Gabon.
4.14      The project would finance the construction of the additional re-
quired teachling facilities at the existing Lycee Leon M'Ba and the College
Noderne Akebe both in Liberville, as well as the cost of the simple tools and
equipment at both institutions. Once completed, the project would allow 700
students to follow this new course. The teaching staff have already obtained
VNDP fellowships to train abroad. The development of the curriculum would
be undertaken bv one of the technical assistance experts included under this
project. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will,
by December 31, 1975, have formulated a plan for introducing this course
into the other lower secondary schools in the country, and have requested the
Eankts comments on the plan.
Ptblications Unit for Educational Materials
4.15      The objectives of this Unit are to improve and increase the learning
opportunities for the Gabonese who are either in or out of school; to enhance
the effectiveness of teachers and the efficiency of the education system; and
to assist in implementing the recommendations on the reform of education.
This would involve the provision of better printed materials, their mass pro-
duction, and the orientation of teachers and trainee teachers in the tech-
niques of preparing and utilizing educational materials. This Unit would be
under the jurisdiction of the National Pedagogical Institute, an agency of
the MOE, that has had the responsibility for developing and producing educa-
tional materials but so far has not had the proper means to do so. The plan
of operation and the work program would be developed with the assistance of
an expert provided by this project. The total staff required for the proper
operation of the Unit would amount to 32, of whom 12 are already engaged in
duties that would become the responsibility of the Unit (Annex 5). The rest
would be trained either abroad on fellowship, or locally.
4.16      The project would finance the required equipment, including an
initial stock of production materials, and 51 man-months of fellowships for
the training of new staff or the orientation and upgrading of existing staff,
as well as 15 man-months of technical assistance services. During negotia-
tions the Government gave assurances that:



- 15 -
(a) It will, by December 31, 1975, have taken the necessary
steps to establish and operate a Publications Unit within
the National Pedagogical Institute that is appropriately
staffed (Annex 5), and that shall have the responsibility
for (i) the preparation, production and distribution of
educational materials; and (ii) the training of teachers and
students at the teacher training institutions in Libreville
in the preparation, production and utilization of educa-
tional materials;
(b)  It will, by December 31, 1975, (i) have formulated a plan
of operation and a work program for the Publications Unit
and submitted it to the Bank for review and comment; and
(ii) have concentrated the production and printing of all
materials for the MOE at the Publications Unit; and
(c) It will, by June 30, 1975, have selected eight Gabonese
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to be trained
on fellowships for the Publications Unit and to guarantee
their employment with it upon completion of their training.
Reform and Renovation of Education (Appendix II)
4.17      The authorities in Gabon have recognized that a comprehensive reform
of the education system is long overdue (para. 3.07). An essentially national
reform effort has already started and it is being assisted by a UNDP/Unesco
project which has concentrated until now upon the collection of missing data
which is essential for any reform and planning exercise. The remaining man-
power available under the UNDP/Unesco project would be insufficient to com-
plete a comprehensive reform, and because of the limited expertise available
to the MOE, further assistance is required. The objective of the technical
assistance provided in this project item is to assist the Government in
completing the reform exercise by undertaking tasks in the following areas:
educational testing and measurement and secondary curriculum development in
mathematics and science.
4.18      The project would finance the cost of such experts' services for
a total of 66 man-months. Moreover, to perpetuate the impact of the reform
exercise and to reinforce the national machinery for educational planning,
the project would finance a total of 45 man-months of fellowships for the
training of staff for the Planning Unit of the MOE. During negotiations
the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a)  have selected, by June 30, 1975, five Gabonese, with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to be trained on
fellowships abroad for the MOE Planning Unit and to
guarantee their employment within this Unit immediately
upon the completion of their training;
(b) select counterparts with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank, three months prior to the start of work by
the technical assistance experts.



- 16 -
C.   Cost of the Project
4.19      The total cost of the project is estimated at CFAF 2.24 billion,
or US$8.97 million, including taxes and customs duties. The breakdown of
gross project costs by major category of expenditure is given in Annex 6a,
and the distribution by item is as follows:
Frs.CFA (million)       US Dollars (thousands)  % of
Local Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign Total   Total
I. Tnstitut Technique -
Port Gentil            341     335     676      1,364   1,340  2,704   47.8
. Centre de l'Enseignement
et Formation Technique -
Libreville             167     245      412       668      980  1,648   29.1
3. Ecole Nationale de
Commerce, Internat -
Port Gentil             22      16       38        88       64    152    2.7
h. Institut National
d'Etudes Forestières -
Cap Estérias            35      23       58       140       92    232    4.1
5. Initiation à la
Technologie -
Libreville              37      31       68       148      124    272    4.8
6. Centre National de
Production de
Materiel Educatif -
Libreville               2      47       49         8      188    196    3.5
. Reforme de
l'Enseignement -
Libreville               8      56       64        32      224    256    4.5
3. Institut National des
Sciences de la Gestion -
Libreville               1      19       20         4       76     80    1.4
9. Project Unit             5       25      30         20     100    120    2.1
Sub-Total 1     618      797   1,415      2,473   3,187  5,660  100.0
Physical Contingencies   88       85      173       351      340    691   12.2
Price Contingencies      280     2        655     1,120   1,502  2,622   46.5
Sub-Total 2     368      460     828      1,471   1,842  3,313
Total Gross Costs        986   1,257   2,243      3,944   5,029  8,973



- 17 -
4.20      The total project cost, net of taxes and customs duties, is esti-
mated at CFAF 2.02 billion or US$8.1 million. The cost of construction, net
of taxes, has been estimated on the basis of contracts for civil works of a
nature similar to those in the project (including those in the first educa-
tion project) and by subtracting about 10.5% representing taxes and duties
on imported and local materials and other components of contracts. The
distribution of net expenditures by category is as follows: new construction
(including minor conversion of existing buildings in two of the project items)
accounts for 72%; furniture and equipment 19%; and services 9%. Space stand-
ards for practical facilities would be within the range of other comparable
facilities financed by the Bank. Utilization rates would average about 72%
of a work week of 40 hours for the Upper Secondary Technical School, and
close to 100% of a work week of 40 hours for the Lower Secondary Technical
School. The estimated average unit cost of new construction per square meter
of gross area is US$230 (Annex 7). Except for such land-locked countries
as Chad, this unit cost is among the highest in Western Africa and was
experienced under the first project. It reflects the shortage of labor, the
high proportion and cost of expatriate staff in the construction industry,
the high cost of imported materials in Gabon, and the lack of competition
between contractors. To insure effective and appropriate application of the
new curricula in the new institutions for the training of technicians and
skilled workers, as well as the proper operation of the Publications Unit
the project would include the cost of an initial supply of teaching and
production materials.
4.21      Contingencies.  The contingencv allowance included in the project
costs consists of (a) unforeseen factors, 15% of estimated costs of civil
works and 10% of estimated costs of professional services, furniture and
equipment; and (b) local price escalation varying from 18% to 6% p.a. for
the different cost categories, and foreign price escalation varying from 24%
to 7% p.a. (Annex 8). All contingencies amount to 37% of the total estimated
project costs or 59% of the total cost before contingencies.
4.22      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component would
be approximately US$5.0 million equivalent, representing about 62% of the
total project costs of US$8.1 million, net of taxes. This has been estimated
as follows: (i) civil works 50%; (ii) furniture 58%; (iii) equipment at 1007
of the c.i.f. cost; (iv) consultant architects services 85%; (v) technical
assistance 85%; and (vi) fellowships 100%. Local currency expenditures are
estimated at about US$3.1 million (or CFAF 0.76 billion) or 38% of the total
project costs, net of taxes.
4.23      Project Recurrent Costs.  The recurrent expenditures of all project
institutions would be (at 1973 prices and salary scales) about CFAF 360
million in 1980, the first year when all these institutions would become
fully operational. This would amount to 5.0% of the MOE recurrent budget
in 1980 and is consistent with the feasible growth of education expenditures
(para. 3.16).



- 18 -
V.  IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Project Preparation.  The Bank has already approved the realloca-
tion of USS50,000 expected to remain as a surplus from the Bank's first
education project in Gabon to finance the preparation of this second project.
This will allow the sketch designs for the project institutions to be com-
pleted at the latest three months after the loan has become effective. The
objective is to accelerate project implementation. It is likely that the
Governmnent and the consultant architects will soon sign a contract which
has already been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank. In this case
work could proceed under the direction of the first Project Unit and its cost
is expected to exceed the sum reallocated. Thus, retroactive financing of
the services of consultant architects up to a maximum of US$50,000 is recom-
mended.
5.02      Project Administration.  A Project Unit would be established within
the Ministry of Public Works, which is the agency normally responsible for
managing all of the Government's construction. This unit would be respon-
sible for: (i) supervision of project implementation, (ii) coordination with
other ministries and parties involved in the project, and (iii) liaison with
the Bank. For purposes of policy making and coordination there would be a
Project Committee headed by the Project Director, and including representa-
tives of all the Government agencies concerned. The appointment of all
members of the Committee will be a condition of effectiveness. The MOE
would retain the responsibility for providing the Project Unit with the
educational specifications for all the project institutions. Implementation
of the first project, though successful, has imposed an inordinate additional
burden on the Director of the MOE Planning Unit. Besides being more effec-
tive, the new approach would free the MOE Planning Director to carry out his
primary duty  and would contribute to the establishment of school building
capacity in a manner consistent with the existing Government organization.
5.03      The Project Unit would consist of:  (i) a part-time Project Director,
acceptable to the Bank, who would be a high level civil servant already employed
bv the Government in a capacity related to education. He would also be respon-
sible for the overall management and control of project implementation; (ii)
a Deputy Director, who should be an architect/engineer highly experienced in
building-construction management who would be responsible for daily implemen-
tation of the project -- the cost of 3 man-years of his services would be
financed under this project; (iii) two site architects or construction
engineers one for the building sites in Port Gentil and another for those
in Libreville and Cap Esterias; (iv) a quantity surveyor; (v) a procurement
specialist; (vi) an equipment specialist; (vii) an accountant; and (viii)
other support staff. The staff listed in (ii) through (vii) should have
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, and they, in addition to those in
(viii) would be employed on a full-time basis. The establishment of the
Project Unit as part of the Ministry of Public Works organization, the
appointment of the Project Director and the Deputy Project Director will
all be conditions of effectiveness. The selection and appointment of staff



- 19 -
listed in (iii) through (vii) would be completed within three months after
the loan has become effective.
5.04      Professional Services.  Design planning and construction supervision
of five of the project items would be performed by consultant architects al-
ready preselected and acceptable to the Bank. They would be engaged on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. To accelerate implementation, the
Government has been advised to sign the negotiated contracts with the selected
consultant architects as soon as possible. The employment of the consultant
architects vill be a condition of effectiveness.
5.05      Sites.  All sites required for the construction of the six project
items have already been selected. The sites for the dormitories of the Upper
Secondary Technical School and the National School of Commerce, both in Port
Gentil, as well as the site for the Lower Secondary Technical School in
Libreville are all the property of the MOE. The site for the National School
of Forestry is the property of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Resources.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that acquisition of an
appropriate site, selected for the teaching facilities of the Upper Secondary
Technical School in'Port Gentil, will be completed prior to the scheduled
start of construction.
5.06      Procurement.  Contracts for building works, furniture and equipment
would be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines. The building works are within the capacity of
Gabon's industry. To facilitate delivery to each project institution, equip-
ment would be grouped in lots of at least $40,000 and the same for furniture.
Bids would be invited for several lots at the same time.  Local manufacturers
of furniture would be given a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price
of competing imports or the applicable customs duties and import taxes, which-
ever is lower. Numerous small items which cannot be satisfactorily grouped
into lots would be purchased locally on the basis of quotations following local
procedures; the total amount would not exceed $120,000 or about 10% of the gross
costs of furniture and equipment during project execution.
5.07      Disbursements.  Disbursements from the boan will cover: (i) 50% of
expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures (c.i.f. cost)
for equipment and materials; (iii) 58% of total expenditures for furniture;
(iv) 100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate consultants and technical
assistance or 85% of total expenditures for local consultants and technical
assistance; (v) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships. Disbursements
would be fully documented. Funds not disbursed at completion of the project
would be cancelled. Construction is expected to be completed in about two
and a half years after the signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 9). The
proposed Bank loan of US$5.0 million equivalent would cover 62% of the
estimated total project cost of US$8.1 million (net of taxes) and would
finance 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures net of all duties and
taxes (Annex 10). The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in
Annex 11.



- 20 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) The Government will have, by June 30, 1975, selected qualified
Gabonese candidates for the fellowships provided under this
project (paras. 3.12, 4.16(c) and 4.18(a));
(b)  the Government will have by December 31, 1975:
(i)  taken the necessary steps to establish and operate the
technical schools in Port Gentil and Libreville (paras.
4.02-4.07) and the Publications Unit (paras. 4.15-4.16);
(ii)  formulated and submitted to the Bank a plan (1) for
introducing the technology courses into the lower
secondary schools (para. 4.14) and (2) for operating
the publications unit (4.16(b));
(c) at least 50 boarding places in the dormitory complex in Port Gentil
will be allocated to students of the National School of Commerce
(para. 4.10);
(d) the evaluation of the relative attractiveness of the primary
teaching profession (para. 3.08).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan are:
(a)  the appointment of members of the Project Committee (para. 5.02);
(b) the establishment of the Project Unit and the appointment of the
Project Director and Deputy Director (para. 5.03);
(c) the employment of the consultant architects (para. 5.04).
6.03      Retroactive financing for the services of the consultant architects
to complete the sketch designs for the project institutions is recommended up
to US$50,000.
6.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$5.0 million, for a period of 15 years including a 4-year grace period.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
DESCRIPTION OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Part A
Gabonese schools are administered predominantly by the State, al-
though there are some private primary and secondary schools operated by the
Catholic and Protestant churches. The State prescribes examinations at the
end of each level of schooling, lays down the compulsory age limits (now
6 - 16) and prescribes curricula. The system is centralized under a Minister
of National Education.
1.01      At primary level the enrollment ratio is unknown because reliable
census data are not available, but it is probably high. Certain growth
trends are encouraging: enrollment has been rising by 5% per year (110,466
in 1972-73 -- 52% in State, 39% in Catholic and 9% in Protestant schools);
and girls, who in 1960 formed only 37% of enrollment, now constitute 48%.
Retention rates in 1971-72 to 1972-73 averaged 94%. The rural exodus is
pressing on the limited accommodation in the urban schools, and Libreville
and Franceville have had to use the double-shift system; even so, enrollment
in some classes exceeds 100.  The rural districts are finding it financially
difficult to provide suitable school buildings.
1.02      Transport problems militate against regular attendance and frequent
supervision, especially in rural areas. Books, charts and visual aids (and
even basic supplies such as chalk) are insufficiently provided; books relevant
to the environment do not exist.  Pupils suffer extensively from ill health.
They are instructed in French, a language foreign to most of them, and only
38% of their teachers are trained. Not surprisingly, efficiency is low.
1.03      Between 1971-72 and 1972-73, repeater rates averaged 37%, the
highest being in Grade 1 (51%, perhaps because of language problems) and Grade
6 (43%, whether to comply with the compulsory attendance law or to repeat
examinations). The Ministry is introducing more automatic promotion but
this will bring no relief to Grade 6. Only about 32% of the children in
Grade 6 obtain the Primary School Certificate, and at current passing and
repeater rates it is estimated that each certificate costs 21.4 pupil years
and the average successful student spends 8.3 years in Grades 1 - 6.
2.01      The secondary schools include the lycee (Grades 7 - 13), college
moderne (Grades 7 - 12) and CEG or short-cycle school (Grades 7 - 10). The
BEPC is taken at the end of Grade 10 and the baccalaureat at the end of Grade
13. All schools follow the same curriculum in the respective grades. Of the
9387 secondary level students in 1971-72, 57.6% were in State and 42.4% in
private schools, 82% were in the lower cycle (Grades 7 - 10) and 35% in the
CEGs.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
2.02      The system is evolving in three ways.  First, there is an increase
in enrollment (30% per year in the 1960s, 17% per year in 1969-72). Second,
there is an institutional evolution from shorter to longer cycle schools as
catchment areas develop and the schools reach out more (for example, the ratio
of CEGs to colleges modernes to lycees which was 24:12:5 in 1971-72, had be-
come 33:11:9 in 1973-74). Third, existing schools are being improved and
expanded by the addition of classrooms, science laboratories, and girls' board-
ing (to improve the somewhat static 32% ratio of girls) and other facilities.
1.03      Entrance into the secondary schools is gained by a nationwide
cormpetitive test at the end of Grade 6. After the general course in the
'irst two grades students may enter the technical lycees; after Grade 10 a
-oompetitive test selects the entrants into one of the three upper cycle
streams, literature and economics, technical, or science.
2.04      Details on the teaching staff for 1971-72 are shown in the following
table:
Number         %         %         %
of       Gabon-   Adequately Adequately  Gabonese   Pupil
Enrollment  Teachers       ese      Trained    Trained  Adequately  Teacher
for CEG  for lycee    Trained    Ratio
Short cycle       3251       144         24          50          --         6        21:1
Long Cycle        6136       309        29           80          44         5        20:1
'ropout rates are negligible and repeater rates are reasonable (average of 12%
in 1972 in the short cycle and 7% in the long cycle. About 17% in the long
cycle were over-age (19+) and about 31% in the short cycle (16+).
2.05      Whereas in the period 1960-69 only 572 persons received the Baccalaureat
(57% in Mathematics/Science), 1270 received it between 1970 and 1973 (46% in
Mathematics/Science) out of 1,888 candidates, 57% of whom were in Mathematics
and Science. Success rates have fluctuated over the years 1960-73 but have
averaged 59%. The output of bacheliers is insufficient for Gabonese needs but
wîth the current modest expansion taking place and with an improvement in
success rates which could come from improved curricula, examinations and
reading materials, the output should be approximate to the needs. At the BEPC
level the average annual output has risen from 369 during 1962-69 to 950 in
1970-72 and is rising sharply.
3.01      The primary teacher training system comprises 6 CFIs (one of which
is exclusively for Terminal Education) offering a two-year course after the
BEPC to produce assistant teachers, and the Ecole Normale which produces
teachers after a four-year course. For the monitors, who constituted 58% of
the primary teachers in 1971-72, the Upgrading Centers provide "sandwich"
courses; in addition, the National Pedagogical Institute offers correspondence
courses for teachers.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
3.02      The selection of teacher trainees is by a competitive test, the suc-
cessful candidates being sent to the CFIs (if over 18 years old) or the Ecole
Normale (if under 18). The Ecole Normale is well equipped -- a product of the
first project -- and offers the Baccalaureat course plus the equivalent of one
year's pedagogical training. In 1972-73 there were 214 enrolled in the 6 CFIs
and 104 in the Ecole Normale.
4.01      Future Gabonese self-sufficiency in secondary school teachers depends
upon the ENS (Ecole Normale Superieure) and increased output of bacheliers and
licencies. A Canadian technical assistance team in the ENS has initiated a
collaborative approach to teacher training for Grades 7 - 10 which augurs well
for all secondary level teacher training. It involves a three-year course for
bacheliers -- one-third pedagogical (at ENS) and two-thirds academic (given by
the Faculty of Science/Lettres) -- for a Lower Secondary Certificate (CAPCEG)
and University diploma (DUES/DUEL). Counterparts are being trained (locally
at first, then to be sent to Canada) to replace the entirely expatriate staff
of 15 at the ENS. Canada is expected to donate a new building. In 1973-74
there were 96 students under training.
5.01      In non-formal education (education populaire) there is an energe-
tically and imaginatively directed program of adult education embracing rural
animation, radio broadcasts to listening groups, a weekly newspaper (circulation
1,800) and a literacy project in French.
6.01      The National University, established in 1970-71 in Libreville, offers
a two year course for the University diplomas (DUES, DUEL, DUEJ) in Science,
Humanities (Letters), and Law and Economics, leaving the third year for the
licence to be done abroad. The third year is planned to be introduced in
1974-75 for Letters, Economics and Law and in 1975-76 for Science.
6.02      Enrollment in 1972-73 at the University shows that among the 355
students in the regular two-year diploma courses there is a distribution of
31% in Law, 28% in Economics, 22% in Letters and 19% in Science; the latter
is expected to improve. There is also a preponderance of males (72%) and of
first-year students (253). The examination results were generally bad in the
case of first-year students (34% overall success in 1972-73), particularly in
Science, and only fair in the case of second-year students (50% overall
success). Many students therefore repeat a year and this suggests that some
sort of bridging arrangement between the secondary schools and the University
is required. Fifty persons successfully completed the second-year examination
in 1972-73.
7.01      Other post-secondary training institutions include the National
School of Administration, the Magistracy School, the Institute of Management
and the Forestry Institute.
Technical Education and Vocational Training
Technical Education
8.01      The structure of technical education at all levels is based on three
types of institutions.  The National Advanced School of Engineering in Libreville



APPENDIX I
Page 4
(ENS IL) is the engineering faculty of the National Univers ity and is in only
its second year of operation. Twelve students are enrolled in the two-year
general course; their final two years will be completed in France. As ENSIL
develops, however, it is intended to expand the course to the full four years,
offering broad specializations in electrical, mechanical or civil engineering.
The facilities, in terms of workshops, laboratories and equipment are being
reinforced under French bilateral assistance.
8.02      The Lycee Technique in Libreville offers courses at two levels:
the Baccalaureat (technical) leading to futher University study at ENSIL
and overseas, and the Brevet (industrial) which is a technician qualification.
Both curricula are almost entirely those used in similar institutions in France,
and whereas, in the case of the Baccalaureat, criticism has been voiced as to
its unsuitability for future Gabonese engineers, the Brevet seems to be accepted
by employers and the graduates readily find work as trainee technicians in
industry. Enrollments in all sections of the Lycee Technique increased from
547 in 1968 to 772 in 1974.
8.03      There are four Lower Secondary Technical Schools (CET),located through-
out the country. Here, an attempt is made to provide skills which will enable
school leavers to obtain employment in industry as trainee skilled workers.
The curriculum is of three years' duration and is criticized by employers as
being too academic and at the same time lacking in the general educational
content necessary to increase the intellectual level of students to that which
would enable them to become foremen and supervisors in induwtry in later life.
Enrollments in the four CETs fell from 455 in 1968 to 384 in 1972, although
there was a maximum enrollment of 475 in 1971. Due to the lack of enthusiasm
for this kind of secondary education among students who consider it inferior
to that of a general secondary school, dropouts are heavy and only about 36%
finish the three-year course.
Vocational Training
9.01      The picture here is more satisfactory than is the case with technical
education. Training is provided in two centers of the Agence Nationale de
Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnel in Libreville and Port Gentil.
A third center is being constructed in Franceville under bilateral assistance.
Multilateral assistance for these centers is being provided by the ILO. The
training given in these centers is specialized into various skills in the
mechanical engineering and building industries, and lasts, on average, for
nine months. It is very highly regarded by industry.
9.02      The Agency was created by Presidential Decree in 1973, and its
organization is coordinated under the Ministry of Labor and directed by
representatives of employers (both public and private), workers and the
Ministries of Education, Labor, and Planning. Financing is by a Training
Levy imposed by the Government on employers of more than five workers. When
fully operating, the three centers will meet all the country's training needs
for the foreseeable future.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
9.03      There is clearly a requirement for the formal institutions of
technical education to work closely with the Agence Nationale so that school
leavers possess the right backgrounds to enable them to be trained for
specialized work as quickly as possible. In addition to the Agence Nationale,
some larger industrial establishments carry out their own training programs,
which differ in duration from a few weeks to several months.
Commercial Training
10.01     The most important institution for the supply of commmercially
trained personnel is the Ecole Nationale de Commerce in Port Gentil. The
Ecole Nationale has developed its own curriculum, which is well suited to the
needs of industry and commerce. Part of the course is spent in attachment
to commercial establishments in Port Gentil, and the trained output is highly
regarded.
10.02     Unfortunately, the annual output falls far short of the demand;
hence, it la intended to more than double the enrollment, from 65 to 150, by
providing more boarding accomnodation as part of the project.
Part B
Educational Planning and Administration
11.01     Educational Planning is undertaken by a small unit within the
Ministry of Education responsible directly to the Minister and his Secretary
General, but enjoying liaison with the Central Ministry of Planning to which
all ministerial development proposals go for adjustment and processing.
11.02     The Educational Planning Unit was established by a Presidential
Decree of April 1970 which conferred on it wide powers to:
-    prepare educational plans and programs;
-    liaise with local and international authorities in
connection with educational development;
-    supervise and control the school building program;
-    institute an identity card system for pupils;
-    collaborate with the IPN on and maintain general
oversight of qualitative issues; and
-    collect and analyze educational statistics on a guaranteed
basis of confidentiality.
11.03     The Planning Unit consists of one competent Gabonese educational
planner (trained at the Dakar center and in Warsaw), a Gabonese school buildings
officer (not yet trained) and a Unesco statistician. In addition, there are
five Gabonese in training locally -- three in statistics, one in school buildings
and one in general planning, all at the sub-professional level.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
11.04     The Planning Unit is engaged in a major statistical survey to prepare
the school map showing the physical location of all future schools in Gabon
and in introducing a student registration system (fichier scolaire). It has
produced a short term (1973-76) school building program and contributed to the
Five Year Plan (1971-75).
11.05     The Planning Unit has not, however, drawn up long-range perspec-
tives for educational development because of:
(i)  the lack of reliable demographic and school data;
(ii) the lack of manpower information;
(iii)  the fact that an overall reform of the system has been pending
for some time now.
11.06     Meanwhile, however, the Educational Planning Unit needs to conduct,
commission and coordinate certain studies in collaboration with the IPN in
order to provide an informed base from which to make certain policy decisions,
for example:
-    factors influencing the choice of teaching as a career;
-    the modern educational requirements for the "active life"
in Gabon (as a basis for curricular thinking at the first
cycle secondary);
-    the unit costs in education;
-    the development of the University and its relation to the
school system and to Gabonese development;
-    the impact of educational broadcasting (radio and TV); and
-    a language policy for the school system as a whole.
11.07     Administration of education is faced with several problems,
particularly (i) difficulties of transport and communications, (ii) the
delicateness of ethnic diversity, and (iii) the dual system (State schools
and private church schools). However, there is a commendably strong spirit
of compromise and willingness to stimulate dialogue among the component parts
of the system.



APPENDIX II
Page 1
REFORM AND RENOVATION OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Part A
Structural Reform
1.01      Gabon concentrated upon expansion of the educational system during
the 1960s in response to social demand and manpower requirements imposed by
the modern sector of the economy. A few efforts were made at adapting the
system to the needs of an independent Gabon, but little progress was made.
In 1973 Gabon concluded an agreement with UNDP and Unesco to set up a reform
program with the following objectives:
(i) to re-define the objectives of education within the
economic and social context of Gabon and thus to
design a system of education which would produce the
trained personnel required by the economy at all
levels;
(ii) to prepare new curricula at primary, secondary, technical
and higher levels in general, scientific and technological
education and in the training of industrial and agricultural
technicians; and
(iii) to plan and program the phased implementation of the new
curricula.
1.02      This project provided for (i) 228 man-months of experts in planning;
psychosociology; university planning; general education; technical/agri-
cultural education; out of school, youth and lifelong education; statistics
and schools architecture; and (ii) 20 months of short-term consultancies.
1.03      The project was revised in November 1973 within new cost limits to
provide for 105 months of experts in planning, statistics, psycho-pedagogy,
curriculum development and the teaching of French in primary schools, plus
10 months of consultancies. The original aims are no longer possible to
achieve within the confines of the revised Unesco project, but the Government
wishes to press ahead with the reform and renovation of its education system
and hopes to obtain Bank assistance in achieving this.
1.04      The range of specializations needed for a thorough reform is as
follows:



APPENDIX II
Page 2
Planning                       Science
Primary Education               Educational Testing and Measurement
Mathematics                    Educational Administration
Language teaching (French)    University Organization
Social Studies                 Technical Education
Statistics                     Educational Architecture
Coordination                   Teacher Training
Agricultural Education
The Bank can assist specifically by providing 66 man-months of experts in
Educational Testing and Measurement (24), Mathematics (12), Science (18), and
Technical Education (12); and 45 man-months of fellowships in Educational
Planning (9), Social Aspects of Educational Change (9), Methods and Tech-
niques of Curriculum Development (9), Language and Linguistics (9), and Educa-
tional Testing and Measurement (9).
1.05      An estimation of the cost of this technical assistance together
with a proposed timetable for implementation is given in Tables 1 and 2.
Part B
The Training of Technical Teachers
2.01      The whole question of the training of technical teachers for Gabon
must be considered in the light of the reform of the entire education system
which is one of the more urgent priorities of the Governinent. One of the
reasons advanced to justify this reform was the heavy dependence of the educ-
ation system on inputs from outside Gabon, particularly of teachers and
teaching materials.
2.02      In order that the proposed project institutions can succeed in re-
inforcing the Government's efforts to reform the system of technical education,
it is essential that the majority of the technical teaching staff working in
these new institutions shall be Gabonese. Allowing also for the eventual
replacement of expatriates at present teaching in the Lycee Technique and the
CETs, there is a requirement for between 130 and 150 technical teachers to be
trained by 1979. Once this shortfall is eliminated, and allowing for the
modest expansion of technical education in Gabon as a result of the increasing
rate of industrialization, the annual requirement thereafter is expected to
be for 30 trained technical teachers.
2.03      The following options are open to the Government to deal with this
situation:
(i) a crash program of scholarships awarded to suitable Gabonese
nationals to provide for teacher training overseas -- inevitably
in France. While this is certainly possible at the rate of 30 per
year for the next five years, this solution does nothing toward
solving the long-term requirement for a continuing (though small)
annual supply of trained technical teachers in the country. At



APPENDIX II
Page 3
the same time, it would tend to perpetuate the reliance on im-
ported ideas and curricula in the technical education institutions;
or
(ii)  to create a new institution for the training of technical
teachers in Gabon, which could also provide technical
leadership and expertise in such areas as curriculum
development for technical education, production of teach-
ing materials, etc. This option has been selected by the
Government.
3.01       The Ecole Normale Superieure d'Enseignement Technique (ENSET) was
created by Presidential Decree in 1973 to provide for the training of
technical teachers for the Lycees Techniques and the CETs. In view of the
changes in the structure of technical education which will arise once the
new institutions at Port Gentil and the CEFT are completed, the requirement
for ENSET has broadened so that now it must provide, on the one hand, for
the training of general secondary school teachers able to teach "Initiation
a la Technlologie" under the reformed curriculum, and at the other extreme,
teachers capable of teaching engineering subjects to technicians at Port
Gentil and in the Lycees Techniques.
3.02      The four components essential in the training of technical teachers
are:
(i)  adequate technical and theoretical knowledge of the
subject(s) to be taught;
(ii)  a thorough appreciation of the range of practical
training required for skilled workers, foremen and
technicians;
(iii)  sufficient industrial experience to enable the teach-
ing of the subject to be work-oriented rather than
exam-oriented; and
(iv)  pedagogical training, including the special methodology
applicable to the subject to be taught. This includes
complete familiarity with visual aids and modern
educational technology.
By comparison with more populous countries, the numbers of technical teachers
required by Gabon within the next five years and thereafter are small. It
would not be economic, therefore, to introduce lengthy programs encompassing
all the components listed above. Instead, it is suggested that the courses
shown in Table 3 should be set up to cater for the different categories of
teachers required.



APPENDIX Il
Page 4
3.03      In order to implement such programs, once the buildings of ENSET
are completed, the Government will require assistance in the form of special-
ists, audio-visual and special method equipment, and provisions for the training
of Gabonese counterparts who will run ENSET on completion of the technical
assistance program. In order to ensure the successful operation of ENSET,
the following specialist staff should be recruited:
(i) project coordinator and specialist in industrial
training. Part of his responsibility would be the
organization, supervision and evaluation of industrial
attachment for teacher trainee students;
(ii) two specialists in pedagogy for technical teachers;
(iii) one specialist in mechanical engineering able to conduct
courses in special method and the use of visual aids;
(iv) one specialist in electrical engineering able to conduct
courses in special method and the use of visual aids; and
(v) one specialist in building construction/civil engineering
able to conduct courses in special method and the use of
visual aids.
In addition to the six experts, each of whom should serve four years, there
should be provision for 72 man-months of fellowships for the training of
Gabonese understudy's, one for each expert, plus sufficient funds to enable
equipment and visual aid facilities to be provided for the training of the
teachers.



APPENDIX II
Table 1
GABON
Estimate of Cost - Technical Assistancet
Project Item
REFORM AND RENOVATION OF EDUCATION
Experts
24 months:    Educational Testing and Measurement            $ 80,000
1S months:    Science                                          60,000
12 months:    Techlnical Education                             ho, oo0
12 months:    Mathematics                                    = 0,000
$220,000
FJ-.lowehips
9 months:     Social aspects of Educational Change           $  7,500
(Planning)
9 months:     General Educational Planning                      7,500
9 months:     Curriculum development techniques                 7,500
9 months:     Language  naxd Linguistics                        7,500
9 mont1s:     Educational Testing and Measurement.              7.5OO
$ 37,500
Total Cost       $257,500
Source:  IBRD Mission.



GABON: Implementation of Technical Assistance
Ref£orx, ad ienova.ion of Education Project
I                    Months  Elapsed
M/M    *                8                      20       24      28      32       36
EXPERTS:
T[sting                 (24)   =======            XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX      XXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mathematics             (12)   -----=X= jrJIXXX3XXXXyXXX XXXXXX
Science                 (18)   ==u====,         xxxxxxxxtDxX I-
Technical education    (12)   =:_XXXXIX
FUILOWSHIPS:               Mm
Testing                 ( 9)   .X==XX                    X
Curriculum              ( 9)   _,,m====    I          _
Development
Educational PlanninL   ( 9)   '  =X                  CDI
(General)
Educational tElanning   ( 9)   =e=====   XXXXXXXXXXXXxxx
(Social Change
aspects)
Language and              9)                XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXI
Linguistics
Date of loan effectiveness              -
x Experts Operating within Gabon or Fellow on Training
- Advertising and Selection    _
Source:  IBRD Mission



GA.BON
TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAMS
Teaching
Qualification   Pedagogical   Special   Practice        Industrial
Teaching Level             on entry to      Training      Method       and        Attachment    TOTAL
ENSET         (months)    Training   Workshop       (months)      (months)
(months)  (months)
Initiation 'à la             Already trained as secon-
Technologie               dary school science teacher.    2            1               3           6
(general secondary)          No additional pedagogy
required.
Collège d'Enseignement
Technique                      BEI             6            2           1              3           12
(C.E.T.)
Centre d'Enseignement
et de Formation                BEI             6            3           3              6          18
Technique
(C.E.F.T.)
Lycée Technique              Engineering
degree             6            3          3              6           18
Institut Technique           Engineering
(Port-Gentil)               degree             6            3           3              6           18
Source:  IBRD Mission.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H



APPENDIX III
Page 1
EDUCATION - COSTS AND FUTURE AVAILABILITY OF RESOURCES
1.01      The public resources devoted to formal education in Gabon have
increased since the early 1960s at a rate that has exceeded the rapid
growth rate of enrollments: the total of primary and secondary students
doubled between 1962/63 and 1971/72, while the total of public expenditure
on education at current prices increased by more than five times. The share
of total public expenditure on education in GNP, which amounted to about 5%
in 1971, is moderately high considering what still needs to be done to develop
the formal system further. First, secondary enrollment amounts to only 20%
of the relevant age group and not only is the pressure for more places in-
creasing rapidly, but at the same time there is need to expand vocational
education. Second, the University has been opened only recently and needs
substantial investments to be able to produce the required higher-level skills.
1.02      The above emphasizes the magnitude of the problems that the finan-
cial managers of the education system in Gabon are facing. The first problem
is the high cost, which is largely due to the system's inefficiency as re-
flected by the fact that the average time spent by students in grades 1 - 6
is 8.3 years and also by the 60% failure rate of first-year University students.
There are also institutions that are too small to be cost effective, the re-
latively generous but expensive scholarship system, and the Government policy
of hiring expatriate teachers directly rather than obtaining them under tech-
nical assistance agreements -- all of which results in high recurrent costs.
Thus, the public recurrent expenditure on education is expected to be 22% of
the total public recurrent expenditure in 1974 as compared with 17% in 1967.
1.03      The allocation of resources within the education system does not
reflect the changes in priorities which have taken place. Available data,
though incomplete, reveals that under-allocation has occurred in the follow-
ing areas (Table 1):
(i)  capital expenditure which amounted to about CFAF 1.5 billion or
4.7% of the total public expenditure on education during 1963-1971;
(ii)  teacher training, whose share of the total public recurrent
expenditure on education amounted to about CFAF 200 million or
1.6% of the total during 1968-1972; and
(iii)  technical education, whose share was less than 7% during the
same period.
It is considered that, in the future, considerably more resources should be
allocated to these priority areas.
1.04      The strong constraints against increasing the share of public re-
sources allocated to education should be recognized when planning future
educational development and investment. However, the Second Plan may have



APPENDIX III
Page 2
been over-restrictive since only 1.2% out of a planned total investment of
CFAF 150 billion (about US$650 million) was devoted to education during 1971-
1975. Any further substantial expansion of enrollments or improvement in
education would necessarily increase pressure on the public sector from which
some of the increased resource needs would have to be derived. A substantial
increase in the system's efficiency and an improvement in the cost effective-
ness of its individual institutions would generate savings to offset the re-
maining cost increases.  In this respect it is feasible to assume that
recurrent expenditure on education could be increased by an average of about
8z per year in real terms during 1974-1980 (as compared with 5.5% per year
during 1968-1972). This should amount to about 25% of the total public sector
recurrent expenditure in 1980, or about 4% of GDP.
1.05      Considering the limitations of public finance, Gabon's education/
training system is at the stage where priority investments should be made in
order to meet the country's essential skill requirements. The objectives and
guidelines for these investments should be:
(a) to improve the operational efficiency of already existing institu-
tions such as the Institut National d'Etudes Forestieres (INEF)
and the Ecole Nationale de Commerce (paras. 4.08-4.12) where
relatively small investments could help to increase the rate of
staff and facility utilization, and supply the kind of manpower
that the country urgently needs;
(b)  to standardize and systematize the institutional and sub-sectoral
objectives by eliminating duplication especially at University
level;
(c) to undertake investment in new institutions only when it is
clearly intended to meet a high priority need and when all of the
alternatives (including that of training Gabonese overseas) have
been investigated; and
(d)  to continue the review of the system of student scholarships and
subsidies, so that this system can be a more effective tool in
controlling and redirecting enrollments in accordance with the
country's manpower requirements. The structure of tuition
fees should also be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted in
an effort to restrict expansion to those areas dictated by
the economic needs of the country.



APPENDIX III
Table   1
GABON
PUBLIC RECUR2ENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION BY TYPE AND LEVEL
(in CFAF million)
1968      1969       1970     1971     1972      1973
Primary and post-
primary education      515.5     588.5    621.5    787.0    895.6   1,071.6
Secondary education
(long course)         105.1      122.2    147.4    252.8    265.3      365.2
Teacher training         33.2       30.1     38.0      48.4     49.0       78.7
Techmical education     123.8      134.0    146.9    219.1    245.o       310.6
Higher education           5.8       5.8     23.7      62.1    301.2      455.2
Private education        566.0     594.8    633.0    761.6    838.5       924.7
Other                    430.6     529.6    659.5    996.0    942.4   1,097.0
Total          1,750.0   2,005.0  2,270.0  3,127.0  3p537 0   4,303.0
Source: MOE
Budgets, 19(38-1973



--   ------          -                                                =..- ..   ..   ..          -      -       .
 -                   -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .-.                              B      B;~~~ ..    . ..     ..     
i.                                                           .                                                                                                    Î  -        z
,-----                                                                                                                                                                                         -                   -~~~~~~: 






ANNEX 2
GABON
DISTRIBUTION OF GDP BY SECTOR OF ORIGIN, 1972
Sector of Origin                              Value            Percent
(in CFAF Billion)
Agriculture and related                         13.5              11.2
Extractive industries                           35.2              29.3
Manufacturing industries                         8.7               7.3
Construction and public works                   12.3              10.3
Transport and communications                     4.7               3.9
Commerce                                        28.8              24.0
Others                                          16.8              14.0
Total                          120.0             100.0
Source: Commissariat au Plan, Comptes Nationaux de la République
Gabonaise, 1972.



ANNEX 3
GABON
STRUCTURE  OF EMPLOYIENT IN THE MODERN SECTOR,1967-1970
1967          19(18             1969             1 1970
Number of  %   Number of  7   Numher of  %   Number of
wurkers          workers          workers          workers
Private Sector /2    42,590   100   47  i31   100   52,225    100   57 199   1v-!0
Agricuiture /3       (10,201   (24         603      1       640      1       683
Forestrs   (       (       8,881      19    9,840       9   1,847    1'`
Mining                 4s784      il    4,853      10    4,999      10    5,259       9
Industry               4,106     10    6,015       13    6,656      13    7,678      13
Construction           6,983      16    9,265    20   10,393    20   1 1 ,8(;7
Commerce               5,150      12,   5,250      il    5,399      10    5,566    1i,
Trarnsportat:or        2,460       6    3,328       7    4,033       8    4,608       8
Servîces               7,504      18    7,801      16    8,638      16    9,055      16
(trer                  1,402       3    1,585       3    1,627       3    1,696       s
Public Sector            n.a.    100   18,504    100   18,963    100   16,702   10(
Central Government   8,210              9,0105    49    9,408    50    9,971         6"';
Local authorities       n.a.            1,376       7    1>663       9    2,013
Puhic services /2    n.a.               8,123    44    7,892    41         4,718    2:
Total labor force in
modern sector          n.a.           66,08,           71,188            73,901
/    At -)ecemnhe- 31,
/    Wage earners reported to the CatHse Gabonaise de Prevoyance Sociale.
/3   Inc'udes animial hushandry ancl fislsing.
Sourc2;  CaI.sse  ,abonaise de Prevoyance Sociale, Statistiques 1965, 1967, ;5 .
1969, 3970; Ministere des Finances, Depenses de personnel 1966, V
1968, 9 '.69 et 1970.



ANNEX L
GABON
PFRVATE SECTOR: MANPOWER NEEDS BY SKILL, 1971-1975
Skill                           Expansion   Replacement        Total
Managers                                 181            10            191
Engineers                                 h8            _               4&
Administrators                           148            10             158
Technicians                              334            43            377
Other administrators                     131            23            154
Office workers                           750           282          1,032
Skilled workers                        6,014        1,830           7,844
Total                          7,606         2,198           9,804
Source: Second Economic and Social Development Plan (1971-1975).



ANNEX 5
GABON
PUBLICATIONS UNIT - STAFF REQUIREMENTSLa
1. General Editor (fellowship) Z-i
2. Senior Art Editor (fellowship)
3.  Production Manager (fellowship)
h.  Anthropologist/Sociologist (fellowship)
5.  Four editors for language, social studies, mathematics, science,
literacy and adult education (local training)
6. Six staff writersLc (local training)
7.  Typesetters and typists (one fellowship)
3.  Other staff  (three would be sent on fellowship)
/a Not all the listed staff is additional. There are at least
12 persons now engaged in these duties which would become
part of the Publications Unit.
/o F = Fellowships for training/exposure abroad required
ic Staff writers are assumed to be persons released from their teaching
and other public service positions. Full-time equivalents have been
set down here; they may be read as two persons at half-time each or
one full-time. Budgeting for these should be very flexible and they
should always be drawn from a position to which they can easily be
returned at short notice.
Solurce: IBRD Mlssion



G A B O N
SUbUMAWY OF ESTI'.MATED COTS-/
(0591 = 250 FCFA)
Areoss                               C   O   s   t  i   a  FOFA   GOO's    of:_ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _
Item                                                                             2 _sechnica                                                      F            Profesqi'nai                  Total Cceo  in
No.                 Name of Institution                        Enrollment   in m    Building  Sîteworkc  Furniture !Equip_zent  -Assistance  Felwsis   Se rv iccs                Toa             USS o) fe^S
1.       Institut Technique
(Port Gentil)                                          480-/      7,053   421,510    84,302        40,676      89,100                       _           40,465       676,053          2,70'
2.       Centre d'Enseignement et de Formation Technique           600        4,368   20B,980    41,796        16,180    125,000         ,              _           20,062       412,018          1,648
(Libreville)
3.       Ecole Nationale de Comnerce-Intermat                       50          425    27,200       4,080       3,650       -            _              _            2,751        37,681            151
(Port Gentil) >
4.         Tnstitut National  d'Etudes FPorestiêres                 32           720    41,010      8,202       4,551       -            _              _            3,937         57,700           23i
(Cap  Estérias)                                                                                 
5.       Initiation a la Technologie                               120        1,013    49,780       8,206       3,339       2,350        _              _            4,639        68,3;4            273
a. Lycée Leon M'ba - Libreville                         ( 60)         (588) ( 32,120)    (6,424)    (1,927)      (1,175)        -             _           (3,084)       (44,730)        ( 179)
b. Collège Moderne - Akébd                               ( 60)        (425) ( 17,660)    (1,782)    (1,412)      (1,i75)        -             -           (1,555)       (23,584)        (  94)
6.       Centre National die Production de Mat6riel                  -          .          _    |          _               25,650       12,500       10,625            -          48,775            195
Educatif (Libreville)                                                                                                                               I                                            1
7.       Réforme d' Enseignement                                     .          _          _    |    _             _         -          55,000       9,375             -           64,375 |         257
(Libreville)
8.       Institut National de Gestion                                .          .                |    _            _         _           û,000  |  10,000               -          20,000 |          80
(Libreville)
9.       Project Unit                                                _          _          - _    |    _                                30,000          -               -          30,000            120
Subtotal in FCFA 0OO's                                      _          -     748,480  [146,586       68,396    242,100        107,500      30,000          71,854    1,414,916
Subtotal in US$ 000's                                       _          _            3,580             274         968           430          120                         55,660          S,660
Contingencies in US$ 000's                                                          2,398             123         474           172           48             98           3,313
__   .                                   .             l                      I           1           1-           1        -     I           -i  --    -  |                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i    j __
Total Gross Costs in US$ OOO's                                                      5,978             397        1,442          602          168            386           8,972
Less Local Taxes and Duties in US$ OBO's                                              823               57         -             -            -              18              897
Total Costs net of Taxes and Duties in uS$ 000's                                    _ |  5            340        1,442          602                             1688,075
1/ Includes local taxes ern  customs dutîeq.
2/ There will alsY be 240 ->arding places.
Source: IBRD Mission



G A B O N
SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES
(US$1 = 250 FCFA)
Civil Works:                                                               Total     Total
Buildings and                       Professional Technical                 in O0O's  in 000's
Site Works   Furniture Equipment   Services   Assistance Fellowships   FCFA          US$
Subtotal: In FCFA OOO's            895,066        68,396   242,100    71,854       107,500     30,000    1,,414,916      -
In US$  000's              3,580          274        968       288          430         120         -       5,660
Taxes and Customs Duties: In %        23%            21%        0%       6%            0%           0%       15.8%     15.8%
in US$ O00's        823            57        -         18           -            -         -          898
Cost net of Taxes and Duties         2,757           217       968        270          430        120         -       4,762
Foreign Exchange Component             ét2%          58%      100%      85%           85%        100%                   68.1%
Local - Foreign                    L      F      L   F      L   F       L   F       L    F      L    F         L         F
1,378  1,379   91 126    - 968        hl  229    65   365      -   120      1,576    3,186
Source: IBRD Mi ssi;n



ANNEX 7~
GABON
CAPITAL UNIT COSTS PER PFDOJECT ITEM!/
(in US$)
Gross Area/  Building    Site
Student       Cost 2   Develop-
P11ce       per _    ment    Building Furniture Equipment Total
Academic and C9nphiunal
Facilities Q
Institut Tech.
(Port-Gentil)       3.9          231       180        900        76        324    1,48o
CEFT (Libreville)      5.6          229        212      1,052        84       488    1,836
-3oardin_-
Institut Tech.
(Port-Gentil)       &.13         256       416      2,080       292         3/    2,788
Ecole Nat. de Com.
(Port Gentil)       8.5          256        326     2,176       292         3/    2,79h
v Professional fees and contingencies are not included.             (US$1 = 250 CFA)
2/ MOE - students
3/ Included in furniture
August 22, 1974
Source: IBRD Mission



G A B O tl
CONTINGENCY AL,)WANCES
(us$ 000o                            (US$1 - CFAF 250)
2-                                    Prof.           Tech.                                      Total8
A    Contingencies in %        Civil Works     Furniture       Equipment      Services       Assistance   Fellowships   Sub-Total   Local and Foreign
B    Contingencies' Amount   Loc.   For.       Loc.  For.      Loc.  For.    Loc.  For.    Loc.   For.  Loc.   For.   Loc.  For.          currencies
A   (&) Unforeseen factors       15%    15%       10%   10%       -     10    10%   10%        -            -       -
(b) Price Escalation        47%    60%       31%   39%       -     39%    24%   24%       40%   40%      -     40%
(c) Total (a) and (b)       62%    75%       41%   49%       -     49%    34%   34%       40%   40%      -     40%
B   (a) Unforeseen factors   330       207        15    13        -     97       6    23        -            -       -    351    340          691
(b) Price Escalation   1,034      827        46    49        -    377      14    55       26   146       -     48  1,120  1,502        2,622
(c) Sub-total contin-
gencies          1,364   1,034        61    62        -    474      20    78       26   146       -     48  1,471  1,842        3,313
(d) Total project
cost before
contingencies2/ 2,201   14379        148   126        -    968      59   229       65   365       -    120  2,473  3,187        5,660
C    Total project cost1/  3,565   2,413        209   188         -  1,442      78   307      91   511       -    168  3,944  5,029         8,973
-ilneludes local taxes
WIncludes aite devolopcent
Source: IBRD Mission



ANNEX Sb
GABON
PRICE CONTINGENCY ASSUMPTIONS
(in percent)
1973        197h1                   1976 etc.
Civil Works
Local             12          18          12             12
Foreign           24          18           15            12
Furniture
Local             12          14          12              6
Foreign           20          14           il             7.5
Equipment
Local             12          14          12              6
Foreign           20          14           il             7.5
Frofessional Services
Local   )         18          18           14            12
Foreign)
Technical Assistance
Local   >1                                   
Foreign )09                                   
.June 21, 1974
'-rr.TURD llt!-ion



IMPLEMEdTATION SCHEDULE I
Years              R S _-S E                   I D   _ T H [ R       r      O o R T I
Implecnentation Quarter      2    3    14    5    6    7    8    9    10- il   12_ 13   14   15  16
Lycée Tech.
Civil Works             PPP PPP  PPA        SSS  RCC CC  CCC  CCC  OCO  CCC  CCG  GGG  GGG  GGG  G
Furniture              LLL  LLL  LLL WJV  VVV  RER  RRR MM   MM   m    MM
+Equipment             I-IG  GGG  GGG  GGG  GG   -
CEPT 
Civil dorks             ppp  m    PPm  AAA  SSS  RRC  CcC  CCC  cCC CCc  CGG  GGG  G0G  0G0  G
Furniture              LLL  LLL  LLL  VVV  VVV  RRR RRR MMM  MMM  MMM  M
+E uipm ent                                                              I  IGG  GGG  GG0  0GG   G
Internat, lc.Nat.deCo
Civil Works            PPP  PPP  PPA  AAA  SSS  RCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCG  CGG  O(10  GGG  GG
Furniture                L LLL  LLL  VVV  VVV  RRR  RRR  MMM MMM  MM
÷Equipent
INEF
Civil Works            PPP  PPP PPA  A    SSS  RCC  CCC  CCC CCG  G&G  GGG GGG  GG
Furniture                L LLL  LLL VVV  VVV  RRR  RMM MMM  MM
±Equipmen t
Initiation Tech.
Civil Works            PPP ÂA"  SRC  ccc  CCG  GGG  GGG  MGG  GG
Fumniture              LLV  VVR  RRM  MMM
Equipment                              III _0 _0  GOG  MG_
Centre Lat.de Pred.
de Matériel Edu=at!   i z         --f-                 -                                 .     
Equipment                        LI   WYV lRM   MMM  III  III  100  GG0  000 G   G G
Construction Related Schedule                            urDnture anId iq,uipment Schedule
P=Preliminary architectural planning                     L=Preparation of Procurement Lists and of
A-Architects preparation of bidding documents                 bidding documents
b-Subuission of bidding doments                          V=Preparation and submission of bids to vendor
R-Rleview of bide and arard of constraction eootracts   a-Re acew ro bids anid amards of supppy contracts
0-Constriuction (includi.ng site work an  utUin         M=Manufacture and/or deliveryr 
I-IInstallation of fixed items of furniture and
G-Guarantee period.                                           equiDment
-=Gùuaranteed period
June 5, 1974                          XX      Date of negotiation
X     Date of effectiveness
Source: IBRD Misaion



GABON
IMPLEMENITATION SCHEDULE II: EXENDI TURES
(in US$'000)
Year           FIRST               SECOID              THIRD                     FOURTH
Expendit'xres             Quarter      I 2    3           5   -6-  7    8    9   10   '-7    12    13    14    VS          T1
Civil Works                3580                                   '43  2'5  358  716   895   644   430             179
Furniture                   274                                      30   25   23   34   102    60
Equipment                   968                                49             435         291   193
Professional Services       288      20   39   42   36   20   28   28   42    6    6         6    15
Technical Assistance        430      12    7    7   12   63   56   61   58   48   37    16   '13    12    11           7    :10
Fellowshifs                 t20o             1        3   27   27   27   15    5    3        4     3      2     2
Subtotal                   5660     32   46   49 .51  1-10  160  289  355  875  798  1314   928   444   '13            7   189
Unallocated
(conitingencies)       3313       5    6   29   14   34   47  143  194  536  460   818  .566   315           7     4   135
Project Total              8973     37   52   78   65  144  207  432  549 14-11 1258  2132  1494   759    20    '11  324
Local Taxes                 898
Cost Net of Taxes          8075                         '
Local Financing            3046       3    7   20   19   35   21  142 ;196  289  $544   761   554  1317         3      2   133
IBRD Financing            5029    (33) (43(56) 39   43  142  227  283  965 645  i148   840   380    10                 7   168
x Date of effectiveness
August 28, 1974                                                               xx Date of negotiation
( ) Expenditures, incl. retroactive
Source: IBRD Mission                                                                                     reimbursements
Cr



ANNEX 13
GABON
IBRD FINANCING BY CATEGORY 0F EXPENDITURE
(incl. contingencies)
(US$ '000)
(US$1 - 250 CFA)
COST NET OF TAXES
local      IBRD      %   IBRD
Total   Financing  Financing   Financing
1. Construction (buildings
and site works)                2,757      1,378      1,379          50
2. Professional Services                270        41         229          85
3. Furniture                            217        91         126          58
4. Eauipment                            968        -          968         100
5. Technical Assistance                 h30        65         365          85
6. rellowships                          120         -         120         100
7. Unallocated (contingencies)        3,313     l,471       1,842          56
TOTAL:         8,075      3,046       5,029         62
Source: IBRD Mission



ANNEX 11
GABON
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ thousands)
Accumulated      Undisbursed
Quarter                        Disbursements    Disbursements        Balance
O                                 O                 0              5,050La
1                                 0                 0              5,050
2                                 0                 0              5,050
*
3                               132               132              4,918
4                                39               171              4,879
5                                43               214              4,836
6                               142               356              14,694
7                               227               583              L,467
8                               283               866              h,184
9                               965             1,831              3,219
10                               6h5             2,476              2,574
il                             1,148             3,624              1,h26
12                               840             4,464                586
13                               380             4,844                206
14                                10             4,854                196
15                                 7             4,861                189
16                               189             5,050                 0
*Date of effectiveness
i  Includes uS$50,000 reallocated from Loan No. 540-GA.
October 16, 1974.
Source: IBRD Mission



GAHU)N  .V  l rjl  0F EDUCATOIN SvSUtFM
1( <NR 973
cRAaEL                                                  4               5 OT r                                                                           n              1                                                                 I               r'              1,               R
.CE    s                                '               9              'G               '               12             IV               1-              1-              TE               17             TE              '7               7G               '"
I I I ____                                             _        _ _                                                      -. I            I                                           _____I     I__                                           L    -                 ,            l
|BPRIfAR|                                                             LACE SICISI,A       -     -------- _|           -          PPEEEOSOLEL            -                      -             POTSELGtLV           --
REVET  CIAGOF E,
Li TIF ICAlE
NATIONAt SCHOOL OF AOMINISTRATION   IGRCH        AE                                    ADM INISTRATION
MACISTPACY SCNOOL                       CEPTIFleAIE         ss
_~~~~~~~~~~~~A bASTRA CT
A-IGIRI~~~~~~~~P2CT DÉ
LECONODRE ORGUES                                                                                                                                              "IAJI73EMtRS  
|         M         -   WLO.ER CYCLC-                                  UWEP  CYCLE  -                           INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT                   CEPT          lflCATE                         MANAGEMENT
{ } {) H t = _~~~~~~~~~~~ INGEW  EUN DEJ
CoLLEGES   MD0ErE                  OEPC                                                            NATIONAL UNIVERSMT
------- {}:J-            -    OVEPSEAS FOR LICENCE                               UbIVERSITY DEGREES
PEINANT cRAnEs                                    CEPE                                      ,YCEESÉECOLE NORt1ALE SUPÉERIEURE                                        AC        ECOLE NORALE SUPERIEURE              D       ,UEJ
oAP&CEG
L07WEPSECONOARY SCNOOLS                    sEPC          (OLO COURSE                        CAP CEG       (NEW COURSE)
5   H                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA P
GLOSSARY OF TERMS ANO AeeREVIATIONS                                                                                                                e                _           IPLOME C.F A     l                                                                                       >  TEACHER TRAIRAEt
I BAC  teauEsI  7 _
2B EI 3T-2t d t                JMlE OR   ) Ef        idci4   dP IfNRiAROPOSE RRURAL TRAINING CENTER PROJECT   ITEM    OYEM
3. BEPC  BRENd. OpAMi,nTy.,T 0VRRR           d ERrILR.O    SEEOTAIEy GAhO.t CEtEfiEA-EP
4. BETC BQRR d*t2i3nTmmt  t.EhfiquE RT EnmEREAI (TR.hEiIt ITd Comm,nF.Ir,,uI    T
. C       CmOIEtEi' tOME -E     TS
E  CAP - CWtH.iRA8  'MEiEAAR PNd.Wq.oAN 4CNRtiUIT  TE             Co.rpy t- OR M     -
D-7dtd bY T-h. Tr.iliM" -Fhtn                                                                                                                                                                                   - - -}[ } { }- -    NURSING f& MIDWAIERY
-Cit2 iha  d'*ptibUd, P t        irio-eICt2if-st. ai prot7AiDEl ~c.2pU,,CE,-
tDt2trdt.d bY ImdF2t72rbl or CO.-mm 14tsr    Tttini~g t m iFT7UtU1i)                                                                                       SCdOOL OF HEALTH SCIENCES                                                                                                           <, SUg PROFESOIONAL
T  CE  COuLt El-Mr2NEiER )GOdA   3 ,,d EL
8  CEG  ColIp dN9.-ip. t g.A-tP (LO-, S cod.ry Uh..lt                                                                                                                                                                       -       -        WHALTH AECMNICNANS CAREERS                                   J
9. CEPE  C"th-,iRî   AVEdV e RTTO priAr  MR       )Pmur TERlMY School CtitiiLot DBPOME ICENIEUR
tO. CFI CoTEr. Ad For,fliOT d'InRitLtTrA (TE Thr TruinîiT  CentTTO                                                                                                                                          FORESTR7 i)STIUIE                                         DE TECHNIQUE FORESTIERE
E1  CM  COOUn MRET  0G8d. 5 A,d 6E)
12. CP COUn F'nP O iTE  OrNdfl 1 TId 2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOPESTRY TRAINING
T3. Colîqo 0EO.NE -.TEUtT T.RhEiqE ITTRhT,TI OChTRi - LOrN, SAOTN F LANOINT T)C oUE
14. CDIIqe OE.RLBRT TIEL TEEhnIA                                                                                                                                                    *ECT  LYCEE
iTh.EE,Oi A( Cd   TTEM  Unloff 1.-,. ONRTAST  LmRI 
ES.  Coll             S      , ModRETT  _  ON t   6 E R  tOGC,Td  7-11)                                                                                                                                        BACNAIONLG                                 CHAFNG-TETN
16. GUEJ DipIlom  UOTPRnitRre  dE           dL i JdnT(2nd YT    ODiplonET  UGERty BedAE. T, LA27                                       PRoPOSEo PT, GENTIL       GLYCEE POLYTECHONIOUE        BEI                                     NATIONAL NIGHER SCEoL 0F ENGINEERINC
1T. DUEL  Diplomt-    "ntb    d'Eludn LiXttnnntt                                                                                                        2m
(Znd Y., r ipl.-F Unha"ty nudL in HWahh: 
1B. DUES Diplome UTiAMrNitEiI  d'Etude SkieEtfiq-I N
(2n2 u  Dpr7  Uli-iY2r     n.diE. il ScinO2I                                                                                                      LYCEE         TECrUlQUE                    RFIC Op RE'
TE  EAtI N  -i. - ONMEI1  CoR
S. LYOm02 -         ScRAYS..ol.y L "rcut{Gtdt  -3                                                                                            NATIONAL SCrooL  OF COMMtERCE                                                                                                                                        EUCLAN
00  T-R  - OMROdIy OLITORI T y.,I -04  )G,d. 7 T-TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T1CCNIU ( ENI
21.  TRyN T.ETTiq.. - TRO~itTI   OChoL) <OTRAN O-T 13   O-T)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OEROOTA  TRAINING
AND EDOCATION
CO I L E GE O EfNSÇIG4EftiEbT  TE CH N I OUE ET C Ob ME R CIALI                                                                                                                                                               TX
_         }(  {}_  ~~~~~~~~CAP
Dtlr.     rRStlGN(MENT  7ECHNIOUEL
-     -           ;         '_LAG~~~~~~LAORhARKET 



CHART 2
GABON
ORGANIZATIONAL
STRUCTURE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
PRESIDENT
0F
R EPUBLIC
I_ ~~~~~~~~~~~EOUCATION ~~~ ~~~~
- -EAC-                       SCR-TA-  0EPRESIDENTIAL
CA81NIET                                            RESE     _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ SECRETARY OF                                      ADVISER AND
STATE FOR THE                  ~~~~DIRECTOR C
ARTS & CULTURE                             HIGHER EDUC
AND
RECTOR OF
NATIONAL
UNIVERSITY OF
GABON
CRETAR y
GENEA L
I NS PE C7E UN 
DACADEMIE  ADMINISTRATIVE  P NANC A                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VICE-FIECTR
ITECIINICAL              AOVISIN             FINATTEAL                                                                                    OF NATIONAL
AOVISERI                                                                                                                                 UNIVERSITY
FPENCH               *                                                                   _
TECI.N CAL                                                    II
ASSISTANCE                                  II
STAFF          OIRECTORATE          DIRECTORATE                     E        I         l
EDUCATION           EÈcOUCATIlO"NY      tEOUCUtAT ION         PLANNING          COL ESIENT R           POUAN
OIRIEC -OF TE
l l  ANULTIES        0 5lEC  <    [F   OFFICE OF
i  l l  SPECIALISED O l   SC.IENTIFIC  BACCALAUREAT
!   CHIOOLS        P l   FrESEARCHU   EXAMINATIONS
NATIONAL                                  O              IUIPMENr               INSTI
COMMISSION             F00         L 0      AND             JOINT BUREALX         PEDAGOiGUE
FOR UNESCO           PRORAM               UATERIAL                                 NATIONAL
FINANCE           EXAMINATIONS          PERSONNEL
OCT 31, 1973
Wo.d B.k n-800



GABON: ENROLLMENTS IN FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
1971-72
ftOYS                                                                                         GIRLS
TECHNICAL                  TEACHER                                                                                          TEACHER                   TECNtNICAL
EDUCAlION   SECONDARY  TRAINING           UNIVERSlTY                                                         UNIVEASITY   TRAINING   SECONDARY   EDUCATION
t5                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~84                                                    26                                     2nd Yeni Local University
14                                   4             222                                                                   38           1                4th Ye r TJ.T. t Yr. Locl University
13       61           377           21                                                                                                 1            94      3        3rd Yen, r.TT. Tenn.
il     16f     i .    464           99                                               l                                                                      26  19,6  23  t Yes, T.T.: 2énne
10     125            91O88||0 35                                                                                                                          9     25             3irne
S 197                im                                                                                                                            78            5:             5 E F
14~~~~~14
V9                20              16             12                a4                        HUNDREDS            4                                2               16
PRIMARY 
6                                                                                                                                                                                CM2
5 _ il CMI
4                                                                                        |                                                                                         S | l CE2
3                                                                                          7                                                                                    | l __ CE1
CPI
20              16             12               8              4             O  ANDS           4               8               12              16              20
E     TEACHER TRAINING
r     UNIVERSITY
Source Educational Statistics. Ministtv of National Educatiom                                                                         TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
SECONDARY SCHOOLS
PRICMARY SCHOOLS
World Blnk-88l



REFERENJES TO THE MAP
REPUBLIC OF GABON
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1. Institut Technique
Upper Secondary Technical School                                Port-Gentil
2. CEFT                                                             Libreville
Centre d'Enseignement et de Formation Technique
Lower Secondary Technical School
3. Internat, Ecole Nationale de Commerce                           Port-Gentil
Dormitory, National School of Commerce
4. INEF                                                           Cap Estérias
Institut National d'Etudes Forestières
National Forestry School
5a Ly2e Leon M'Ba                                                   Libreville
Initiation a la Technologie
Introduction to Technology
5b Collage Moderne Akébé                                            Libreville
Initiation à la Technologie
Introduction to Technology
6. Centre National de Production de Matériel Educatif               Libreville
Publications Unit for Educational Materials






IBRD 11116,R
SECOND EL>UCAflON9, ROE Ci 
r                 -~~~~~obd*- *W- *--.
je~~~~~~~~~~~
O    \NV~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
"N~~~~~~~~~~~OG



