CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1084 GA
Loan Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 7, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1084 GA
Loan Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 7, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1975, between THE GABONESE
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and Scientific
Research;
(b)   "Project Committee" means the policy making and coordination
committee to be established and maintained pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement;
(c)   "Project Unit" means the Project implementation unit to be established
and maintained pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement;
(d)   "National Pedagogical Institute" means the Institut P6dagogique
National, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 0288 BIS/PR/MEN
dated August 28, 1964;
(e)   "National School of Commerce" means the Ecole Nationale du
Commerce, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 00500 PR/MEN
dated May 12, 1972;


﻿4
(f)   "National Management Institute" means the Institut National des
Sciences de la Gestion, established pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 051/73
dated September 24, 1973;
(g)   "National Forestry School" means the Institut National d'Etudes
Forestieres, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 020/67, dated
November 13, 1967;
(h)   "UNDP" means the United Nations Development Program;
(i)   "Education Reform  Project" means the project of the Borrower
described in the UNDP Project Document No. 72/002 dated October 11, 1973;
and
(j)   "ENSET" means technical teacher training school, established pursuant
to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 81/72 dated December 30, 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schadule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
am :mt of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until the Project is
completed, a Project Committee for the purpose of policy making and coordination,
as more fully described in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Said Committee
shall be chaired by the Project Director and shall comprise representatives from
all of the Borrower's departments and agencies concerned by the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain within its Ministry of Public
Works, until the Project is completed, a Project Unit with such powers,
responsibilities, staff, facilities and resources as are set forth in Part B of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of plans
and specifications for, and in the supervision of the construction of, the Project,
the Borrower shall employ architectural consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿6
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval
the plans and specifications for the educational institutions included in Part A
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to      the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire prior to the commencement of construction all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of
the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1975 or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, select candidates in the numbers
hereinafter indicated, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank,
to be trained abroad through fellowships for employment, subsequent upon the
successful completion of the training, in the following institutions: (i) five for


﻿7
MOE's planning unit, (ii) two for the National Management Institute, and (iii) eight
for the publications unit included in Part A(5) of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than three months after the
Effective Date or within such other period of time as shall be agreed with the
Bank, employ for the Project Unit on a full-time basis two site architects or
construction engineers, a quantity surveyor, a procurement specialist, an equipment
specialist, and an accountant whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, no[ later than December 31, 1975 or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, take all such action as shall be necessary
to establish and operate the educational institutions included in Part A(1), (2)
and (5) of the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Exhibit
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course


﻿8
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange .. ;ets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance of the
buildings and facilities included in the Project against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause to be operated, the
educational institutions and facilities included in the Project in accordance with
sound administrative and educational policies and practices and with due regard
to economy.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified administrators and teachers in adequate numbers to staff the educational
institutions and facilities included in the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or cause to be
maintained, the buildings, furniture and equipment of the educational institutions
and facilities included in the Project and make, or cause to be made, all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with sound technical and administrative
practices.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1975 or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Bank:
(a)   formulate a plan for the introduction of technology courses in those
lower secondary schools of the Borrower not included in Part A(6) of the Project,


﻿9
and furnish said plan to the Bank for its review and comments;
(b)   formulate a plan of operations and a work program for the publications
unit within the National Pedagogical Institute and furnish said plan to the Bank
for its review and comments; and
(c)   concentrate the production and printing of all materials for MOE at
said publications unit.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall allocate not less than fifty (50) boarding
places to be constructed under Part A of the Project to students enrolled at the
National School of Commerce.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, not less than three months prior to the
start of work by the technical assistance experts included in Part B of the Project
or at such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, select said experts'
counterpart personnel whose qualifications shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   all members of the Project Committee have been appointed;
(b)   the Project Unit has been established pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of
this Agreement;
(c)   the Project Director and the Deputy Director have been appointed;
and
(d)   the Borrower has employed the architectural consultants pursuant to
Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date May 7, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Planning and Territorial Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre du Plan et
de I'Amenagement du Territoire
Bofte Postale 172
Libreville, Gabon
Cable address:
MINPLAN
Libreville
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Vincent Mavoungou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                    1,380,000          50%
(2)  Equipment and                    970,000           100% of foreign
Materials                                         expenditures
(3)   Furniture                        125,000          58%
(4)  Consultants'                     230,000           100% of foreign
Services                                          expenditures or
85% of local
expenditures
(5)  Technical                        365,000           100% of foreign
Assistance                                        expenditures or
85% of local
expenditures
(6)   Fellowships                      120,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(7)  Unallocated                     1,810,000
TOTAL          5,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is
also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed
to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of
expenditures incurred after October 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $50,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the plocurement of any
item in any Catego y 3 inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to


﻿14
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A      Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(1)   an upper secondary technical school in Port Gentil, as detailed in
paragraph A of the Exhibit to this Schedule;
(2)   a lower secondary technical school in Libreville, as detailed in
paragraph B of the Exhibit to this Schedule;
(3)   additional boarding facilities for the National School of Commerce in
Port Gentil;
(4)   additional boarding facilities and classrooms for the National Forestry
School in Cap Esterias;
(5)   a publications unit for educational materials under the National
Pedagogical Institute in Libreville, as detailed in paragraph C of the
Exhibit to this Schedule; and
(6)   facilities for a new "Initiation a' la Technologie" course at the Lyc6e
Ldon M'Ba and the CollNge Moderne Akebe, both located in Libreville.
A detailed description of the enrollment figures, boarding places, and
approximate total gross areas of construction of the educational institutions
included in this Part A is set forth in paragraph D of the Exhibit to this Schedule.
Part B      Technical Assistance required for (i) the efficient operation of the
publications unit, (ii) the Education Reform Project, (iii) the National
Management Institute, and (iv) the Project Unit.
Part C      Fellowships required for the training of staff for:
(1)   the publications unit;
(2)   the MOE planning unit; and
(3)   the National Management Institute.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿16
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
A.    Upper Secondary Technical School in Port Gentil
1.    Supervising Agency: MOE
2.    Organization:
(a)   A Governing Council consisting of representatives from inter alia MOE,
Agence Nationale pour la Formation Professionelle, Commissariat au Plan, ENSET,
National Pedagogical Institute, employers, workers' unions Ind the school's
administration will have the authority and responsibility to define and coordinate
the school's relationship with industry.
(b)   The administration of the school will have the power, subject to the
guidance by the Governing Council, to establish the school's admission rules, study
programs, curricula and examination standards, and to appoint corresponding
committees with appropriate representation.
(c)   A placement service will assist the graduates in obtaining employment
and will have a tracer system  to follow the progress of the graduates' careers.
B.    Lower Secondary Technical School in Libreville
I.   Supervising Agency: MOE
2.    Organization:
(a)   A Governing Council consisting of representatives from inter alia MOE,
"Agence Nationale pour la Formation Professionelle, Commissariat au Plan, ENSET,
National Pedagogical Institute, employers, workers' unions and the school's
administration, will have the authority and responsibility of defining and
coordinating the school's relationship with industry.
(b)   The administration of the school will have the power, subject to the
guidance by the Governing Council, to establish the school's admission rules, study
programs, and curricula and examination standards.
C.    Publications Unit
1.   Supervising Agency: National Pedagogical Institute


﻿17
2.     Responsibilities:
(a)    preparation, production and distribution of educational materials; and
(b)    training of teachers and of students at teacher training institutions in
the preparation, production and utilization of various educational materials.
D.     Enrollments, Boarding Places and Approximate Total Gross Area
Approximate Total
Enroll-  Boarding          Gross Areas
ment      Places    Construction   Conversion
1.   Upper secondary technical
school                            480     240        7,050 m2
2.   Lower secondary technical
school                            600      -         4,400 m2
3.   National School of Commerce            -       +50*         425 m2
4.   National Forestry School               +32     +36          600 m2       115 m2
5.   Publications unit                      N.A.    N.A.          N.A.          N.A.
6.   "Initiation a la Technology"
course                            120      -           825 m2          .
(a)  Lyc6e L6on M'BA                    (60)    -          (600 m2)         -
(b)  College Moderne
Akebe                        (60)     -          (225 m2)      200 m2
Total            1,232     326       13,300 m2       315 m2
*    The symbol (+) means additional.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1979                                         145,000
September 15, 1979                                     150,000
March 15, 1980                                         160,000
September 15, 1980                                     165,000
March 15, 1981                                         170,000
September 15, 1981                                     180,000
March 15, 1982                                         185,000
September 15, 1982                                     190,000
March 15, 1983                                         200,000
September 15, 1983                                     210,000
March 15, 1984                                         215,000
September 15, 1984                                     225,000
March 15, 1985                                         235,000
September 15, 1985                                     245,000
March 15, 1986                                         255,000
September 15, 1986                                     265,000
March 15, 1987                                         275,000
September 15, 1987                                     285,000
March 15, 1988                                         295,000
September 15, 1988                                     305 000
March 15, 1989                                         320,000
September 15, 1989                                     325,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Cpnditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three                                 1-1/4%
years before
maturity
More than three years                               2-1/2%
but not more than
six years before
maturity
More than six years but                             4-1/4%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years                              6-1/2%
but not more than
thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                                8%
before maturity


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.4 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project and estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more shall be prequalified as described in part
2.2 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for materials, furniture or equipment
shall be grouped in lots of $40,000 or more.
4.    Items of materials, furniture or equipment which cannot be grouped in lots
of at least $15,000 shall be procured through negotiated purchases after solicitation
of quotations from suppliers. Items to an aggregate amount of $120,000 may be
so procured.
B.    Evaluation and Coinparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Gabon may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿21
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Gabon if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Gabon equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in Gabon other than
bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants


﻿22
are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of lists of civil works contracts and items of materials, furniture
and equipment. Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
for its approval, (i) a list of all contracts for civil works indicating the estimated
value of each contract and the forecast timetable for bids and awards of such
contracts, (ii) a list of all items of materials, furniture and equipment, indicating
their specifications and estimated unit and total prices, indexed, coded and
numbered to identify the educational institutions and spaces for which they are
required.
3.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) materials, furniture and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Procurement of materials, furniture and equipment shall be limited
to the items specified in the lists mentioned in paragraph C.2 above and identified
in contract documents by such indices, codes and numbers as appear in such list.
(c)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be


﻿23
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited, provided that any proposed change in a contract involving
a price increase of less than 10% of the contract sum or less than $20,000
equivalent, whichever is less, shall not be deemed to be a material change for
purposes of this paragraph (e).
(f)   A certificate signed by the Project Director shall be furnished to the
Bank promptly after the execution of a contract for materials, furniture and
equipment confirming that the goods contracted for are in accordance with the
quantities and specifications set forth in the list mentioned in paragraph C.2 above.
(g)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
4.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 5
Project Committee and Project Unit
A.    The Project Committee
1.    The Project Committee will be responsible for policy making and coordinating
the actions of the departments and agencies of the Borrower concerned by the
Project.
2.    The members of the Project Committee will consist of representatives of
the Borrower's following departments:
(a)   MOE;
(b)   The Ministry of Forestry and Water Resources;
(c)   The Ministry of Public Works;
(d)   The Ministry of Economy and Finance; and
(e)   The "Commissariat au Plan".
The Project Director will be the chairman of the Project Committee.
B.    The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit, established within the Ministry of Public Works, will be
responsible for (a) supervision of the implementation of the Project in all its aspects,
(b) coordination with the departments and agencies of the Borrower concerned
by the Project and (c) liaison with the Bank. MOE will retain the responsibility
for providing the Project Unit with the (i) educational specifications for all the
educational institutions and facilities included in Schedule 2 except for the one
included uiiftr Part A(4) thereof, the specifications for which will be provided by
the Ministry of Forestry and Water Resources, and (ii) all specifications for the
contractual arrangements relating to Parts B(i), (ii) and (iii) and C of the Project.
Specifically, the Project Unit will be responsible inter alia for the following:
(a)   coordination  and, integration  of all Project activities with  the
departments and agencies of the Borrower;
(b)   administration of agreements with the architectural consultants;


﻿25
(c)   preparation, with the help of the architectural consultants, of a
comprehensive implementation schedule based on the Critical Path Method, Gantt
Chart or other satisfactory method, for setting down the planned timetable of
coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the implementation of all aspects
of the Project will be based;
(d)   arrangements for the review and approval, if necessary, by appropriate
authorities of the reports, specifications and other material submitted to the
Borrower by the architectural consultants;
(e)   arrangements for prompt advice and assistance to the architectural
consultants by MOE, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Resources, and any other
specialists -s needed, regarding the needs of the educational institutions included
in Part A of the Project;
(f)   preparation, with the assistance of MOE, the publications unit, the
Ministry of Forestry and Water Resources and any other specialists as needed, of
(A) lists of all equipment, materials and furniture required for the educational
institutions included in Part A of the Project, (B) specifications and (C) estimated
unit and total prices of each item;
(g)   all necessary arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts
relating to the Project and preparation, execution and administration of contracts
for up to two man-years of consultants' services relating to Part B of the Project;
(h)   keeping of Project accounts and preparation of interim evaluation and
financial statements;
(i)   preparation for submission through proper channels of applications for
withdrawals from the Loan Account; and
(j)   preparation of quarterly progress reports.
2.    The Project Unit will be under the direction of a Project Director whose
qualifications and experience will be satisfactory to the Bank and who will be
a high-level civil servant already employed by the Borrower in a capacity related
to education. He will be responsible for the overall management of the Project,
for chairing the Project Committee, and for the execution of the decisions of the
Project Committee.
3.    The Project Unit will consist, in addition to the Project Director, of the
following full-time staff whose qualifications and experience will be satisfactory
to the Bank:


﻿26
(a)   a Deputy Director;
(b)   two site architects or construction engineers;
(c)   a quantity surveyor;
(d)   a procurement specialist;
(e)   an equipment specialist;
(f)   an accountant.
4.    The Project Unit will also be adequately provided on a full-time basis with
the required support staff, and with adequate premises, equipment and means of
communication and transport. In addition, it will be aided by the services of
architectural consultants.
5.    Under the general direction of the Project Director, the Deputy Director
of the Project will be an experienced architect or construction engineer. He will
be responsible for (a) day-to-day management, (b) administration of procurement
of goods and services, (c) recruitment and coordination of technical assistance
experts and candidates for fellowships, and (d) coordination with the site architects.


