Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19467
Implementation Completion Report
Argentina: Provincial Bank Privatization Loan
(Loan 3878-AR)
and
Argentina: Bank Reform Loan
(Loan 3926-AR)
June 29, 1999
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Argentinean Peso
EXCHANGE RATE
US$1.00 Dollar= 1 Peso
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCRA      Central Bank of Argentina
CAMEL   Standard Bank Rating System (Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings,
Liquidity)
DECRG   Development Research Group
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LCSFP    Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Department
PR        President's Report
ROA       Return on Assets
ROE       Return on Equity
RWA       Risk-weighted Assets
SEF       Superintendency of Financial Entities
Vice President                                       Mr. Shahid Javed Buwk
Director, Country Management Unit                    Ms. Myrna Alexander
Director, Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Unit  Mr. Danny M. Leipzi;.er
Task Manager                                         Mr. Stefan Alber



iii                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Argentina: Provincial Bank Privatization Loan
(Loan 3878-AR)
and
Argentina: Bank Reform Loan
(Loan 3926-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................................                                                                                 VI
A.   INTRODUCTION  .................................................................... VI
B.   PROJECT  OBJECTIVES .................................................................... VI
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECTS ....................................................................                                                         VI
D.  ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES .................................................................... vil
E.   SUSTAINABILITY  OF PROJECTS ..................................................................... VII
F. BANK PERFORMANCE .....................................................................                                                                           VII
G.  BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ..................................................................... VII
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ....................................................................                                                                      VII
1.   LESSONS  LEARNED .................................................................... VIII
J.   FUTURE  OPERATIONS .................................................................... IX
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................................. I
A. INTRODUCTION: LOANS 3878 AND 3926 IN THE CONTEXT OF THE CONVERTIBILITY PLAN ................. 1
B. OBJECTIVES ....................................................................                                                                                    3
C.   MAJOR  FACTORS  AFFECTING  THE PROJECT .............                                           ........................................................ 5
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..................................................................... 6
E.   SUSTAINABILITY  OF RESULTS .................................................................... 25
F.   WORLD  BANK  PERFORMANCE .................................................................... 26
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................................................                                                                         28
H. LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................                                                                             29
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..................................................................                                                                  30
Part 1.  Loan  3878, Provincial Bank Privatization ..................................................................                                           30
Part 2.  Loan  3926, Bank Reform   Loan ...................                                         ................................................  31
ANNEX 2: SUMMARY OF TRANSACTIONS SUPPORTED BY FIDUCIARY FUND FOR BANK
REFORM/CONSOLIDATION ................                                                                                                                                32
ANNEX 3. TABLES .. ...... 34
Table  1: World Bank Involvement in Argentine  Financial Sector, 1985-1998 .............                                                     ...................... 34
Table  2: Characteristics of Purchasers of Privatized Entities ........................................... ................ 34
Table 3: Terms of the Provincial Bank Privatizations ......................................................................   35
Table  4: Sizes of Privatized  and Residual Entities ......................................................................                                     36
Table 5: Creating Privatized and Residual Entities, Consolidated Balance Sheet for all Privatizations
.................... ...................................................................................................................................... 37
Table  6: Liabilities Retired  with  Fiduciary  Fund Loans ..................................................................... 38
Table 7: Total Disbursements and Losses of Fiduciary Fundfor Bank Capitalization ...................... 38
Table 8: Acquisition/Purchaser Comparisons, First Quarter, 1995 ................................................... 39
Table  9: Post Privatization  Performance ....................................................................... 40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
Table 10: Loans by public provincial banks* .......................................................................                             41
Table II: Summary of Performance, Banks Involved with Fiduciary Fundfor Bank Recapitalization
...............................................................................................................1 ............................................. 41
Table 12: Pre and Post-Transaction Information, FFfor Bank Reform/Consolid .                                                 ............................ 42
Table 13: Lending to the public sector and change in employmentfor public andprivatized
provincial banks (Q3 1998) .........................:..                                                                                          .
ANNEX 4. FIGURES ..6...................... 46
PART I I: STATISTICAL ANNEX ..........................                                                                                                    48
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION - LOAN 3878-AR
TABLE  1: LOAN  DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ..........................                                               ............... 4.8
TABLE  2: PROJECT TIMETABLE ...................................................... 4.8
TABLE 3 : BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ................................, 49
TABLE 4: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ............................... 4 9
TABLE  5: MISSIONS .............................................................................. ....                                                C 0
TABLE 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................. S 2
BANK REFORM LOAN - LOAN 3936-AR
TABLE  1: LOAN  DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ..........................                                               ............... 53
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE ....................................................... 53
TABLE  3 : BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...................................................... 54
TABLE  4: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...................................................... 54
TABLE 5 : MISSIONS ....................................................... 55
TABLE 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ......................................................                                                            57



v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
Provincial Bank Privatization (Loan 3878-AR)
and
Bank Reform Loan (Loan 3926-AR)
PREFACE
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for two operations in
Argentina, Provincial Bank Privatization (Loan 3878-AR) and the Bank Reform (Loan
3926-AR). Because of their twin nature - their timing was essentially identical; their
purpose was to support macro policies and bank restructuring - 3878 focused on public
sector bank reform, 3926 focused on private bank reform - the two loans are analyzed
together to gain a better understanding of the cross-relationships. Loan 3878 was
approved May 4, 1995, became effective May 5, 1995 and closed on April 30, 1997.
Loan 3926 was approved July 25, 1995, became effective December 1, 1995 and closed
on December 31, 1998. Both loans were fully disbursed.
2.   The ICR was prepared by Robert Cull (DECRG) and Stefan Alber (LCSFP).
Because of the prospect of more bank restructuring loans in the future, a more extensive
evaluation and analytical support are being presented. All data in this report are drawn
from the public record.
3.   Preparation of the ICR was begun one month after closure of Loan 3926, during
January 1999. It is based on information in the project files and from detailed data on
individual banks from the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA), and on discussions with
the staff of the implementation authorities - the Trust Fund for Provincial Development
for Loan 3878; the Trust Fund for Bank Recapitalization for Loan 3926. Discussions
with others familiar with Argentina's banking sector, including managers of the banks
that were re-structured under these loans, were also very helpful. These discussions were
carried out in Buenos Aires and the province of Mendoza during January 1999.
4.    Argentine authorities reviewed this ICR and agreed with its focus and
conclusions. The ICR was considered of high quality.






vi
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    Although Bank practice calls for separate ICRs for each loan, this ICR covers
both loans given the confluence of their timing and objectives. A joint discussion should
enhance understanding because (1) the two loans trace their roots to the same source, the
Tequila Crisis of 1994-5, (2) in addition to supporting macro policies, they pursued the
same purpose, structural reform of Argentina's banking sector (Loan 3878 focusing on
public banks, 3926 on private), (3) their identical timing meant that they were supervised
jointly, (4) there was cross-use of conditionality between the two loans, and (5) some
banks received funds under both loans. These loans are a part of the Bank's long-
standing support for financial sector development in Argentina, dating from the late
1 980s and extending to the latest operation, US$3.0 billion (the Special Structural
Adjustment Loan approved in November 1998 - Loan 4405-AR). These two loans,
therefore, were important phases of a comprehensive sustained support strategy.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    Both loans took advantage of the opportunities for change that often accompany
crisis. Both were attempts to restore confidence in the system by eliminating long-
recognized structural problems in banking. The President's Report (PR) for loan 3878
noted that, due to their poor performance, "provincial banks have been a major and
chronic issue, and the current financial crisis is providing a historic opportunity to bring
about structural and difficult-to-reverse change." Similarly, the PR for 3926 noted that it
would contribute to the restoration of confidence in the banking system by, "hasten[ing]
the process of consolidation ... and improv[ing] the financial structure of a distressed
banking sector in the context of acquisitions, mergers, and restructurings."
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECTS
3.    The two loans attempted serious restructuring of some of the weakest banks in a
fragmented system. At the same time, regulators permitted an increasingly strong foreign
presence in the sector, and regulation and supervision of banks was substantially
improved. As competitive pressure increases and regulatory forbearance declines, weak
banks are more likely to fail. To create viable banks out of those involved in these
transactions was a more difficult challenge under these circumstances.



vii
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.    Each loan helped facilitate a substantial number of transactions in a relatively
short time period. Given the high number of financial institutions that were part of the se
transactions, the two loans contributed to re-establishing confidence in the banking sector
after the Tequila Crisis. These structural changes were, moreover, accomplished at
relatively little cost. For provincial bank privatizations, US$1.3 billion were disbursed to
achieve ownership changes at sixteen banks whose pre-Tequila assets totaled about US $6
billion. US$767 million in disbursements contributed to acquisitions, mergers, and
restructurings at banks whose pre-Tequila assets totaled US$14.6 billion. The banks
involved in these transactions, therefore, comprised nearly a quarter of the banking
system's pre-Tequila assets.
E. SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECTS
5.    Although market conditions may dictate that some of the banks created under
these two loans will experience further restructuring or even failure, the majority appear
to be sound. More generally, the increased systemic stability now enjoyed by
Argentina's banking sector is linked to the restructuring undertaken under these loans.
These systemic benefits, which were the key objective of the loans, appear to be
sustainable.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.    Bank performance was satisfactory in terms of timeliness and willingness to
assume the risks associated with adopting untried schemes to achieve structural change in
banking. Staff also provided constructive supervision and analytical work that aided the
borrower. The continuity in staff, and the resulting familiarity with the Argentine
situation, also contributed to the success of the projects.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.    Comments regarding the timeliness of the World Bank response apply equally t:
the Argentine authorities. Trust funds were charged with the management of the
privatizations and consolidations/mergers. Relatively simple operating guidelines, lean
management structures and high caliber staff were charged with re-shaping Argentina's
banking sector for some time to come. The continuity in personnel on both the Bank ar, I
borrower side further fortified that trust.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
8.    Project performance for both loans was satisfactory due to the substantial
contributions of each loan in re-shaping Argentine banking during a turbulent period, to
substantial provincial fiscal savings due to the privatization of provincial banks combined
with a sharp redefinition of the role of the provincial state. The Special Trust Funds
which were created have demonstrated their value as crisis tools. Demand for Trust Furmd



viii
assistance was marked by a clear slowdown when conditions of normalcy in the banking
system set-in starting late 1996.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
9.    Among the lessons applicable to both loans are:
*  Financial/fiscal crises offer opportunities for structural change in banking.
*  However, structural/ownership change in banking requires resources to re-
structure past losses. These financial resources facilitate acceleration of structural
changes that would otherwise not occur, or occur at a more modest speed.
*  Even when sufficient financial resources are available, there will be selection bias
in the roster of potential acquirers. Troubled banks tend not to attract prime-rated
buyers. It is unclear whether program design features alone (such as more
incentives) can overcome that bias. Neither loan analyzed here completely
resolved this problem.
*  Funds were disbursed only after the careful review of the individual transactions.
The approach may be useful in other countries and contexts.
*  Some of the banks created through these transactions may require additional
restructuring as market conditions change. Some failures need to be anticipated.
*  A strong borrower commitment is indispensable in such complicated, time-
intensive transactions.
10.   Lessons specific to Loan 3878 (Provincial Bank Privatization) include:
*  Post-privatization credit market development is likely a long-tern proposition in
geographically isolated regions like Argentina's provinces. Moreover, given the
selection bias alluded to above, the new private owners can be expected to remain
cautious in adapting to retail credit/banking in these areas.
*  Preparatory work to facilitate the sale/recovery of residual assets (e.g., inventory
of assets and assessment of their quality) should begin as early as possible, earlier
than has occurred in many cases to date. Experience in Argentina and elsewhere
has shown this to be among the most intractable problems associated with
privatization. Early private sector involvement in the recovery process is the most
promising solution.
*  Provinces that retain a relatively large ownership stake in their bank decrease the
probability of attracting a high-quality buyer. Sales of 100% of the shares of the
privatized entity should be encouraged.
*  Even under difficult market conditions, privatization can proceed.
11.   Two final lessons specific to Loan 3926 (Bank Reform) is that:
*  In an effort to attract high-quality buyers of troubled banks, the Bank might
explore more flexible lending conditions. For example, it may have been better to
allow interest rates to vary with quality of the acquirer in the transactions
supported by Loan 3926.



ix
Many of these transactions involved weak institutions. Even if the consolidatecl
entities later fail, these types of lending operations can buy time for an
overworked bank failure resolution mechanism.
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS
12.   Some of the restructured banks may well fail in the future but, with the ever
improving failure resolution capacity of the Central Bank, market solutions, rather than
public sector bail-outs, are likely to prevail. The most recent example is the failure of
Banco Mendoza and the subsequent sale to private sector buyers.
13.   While both Trust Funds were created with charters of limited duration, it is likely
that these mechanisms will only be abandoned once it is clear that they are no longer
needed. For instance, in provincial bank privatizations, there are still several small
provincial banks and the large Cordoba bank which may enter a privatization program
given the by-now proven fiscal benefits. The continued value of the Bank Capitalization
Trust Fund is more in doubt but will be determined with the context of a broader review
of the adequacy of bank failure resolution mechanism as part of the loan conditionality of
the recent 1998 US$3.0 billion loan (Special Structural Adjustment Loan - Loan 4405).
14.   The Bank's continued involvement in the restructuring of the financial sector is
likely to be maintained through Loan 4405 and possibly further operations. Promising
new initiatives are those of the new Governor of the Province of Cordoba who expressed
a strong interest in privatizing the provincial bank of Cordoba. This would complete the
privatization of all major provincial banks, other than that of the Provincial Bank of
Buenos Aires.



PART I : PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
1.    Although Bank practice calls for separate ICRs for each loan, this ICR covers
both loans given the confluence of their timing and objectives. A joint discussion should
enhance understanding because (1) the two loans trace their roots to the same source, the
Tequila Crisis of 1994-5, (2) in addition to the support for macro policies, they pursued
the same purpose, structural reform of Argentina's banking sector (Loan 3878 focusing
on public banks, 3926 on private), (3) their identical timing meant that they were
supervised jointly, (4) there was cross-use of tranches between the two loans, and (5)
some banks received funds under both loans. These loans are a part of the Bank's long-
standing support for financial sector development in Argentina, dating from the late
1980s. These two loans, therefore, were important building blocks of a larger, more
sustained support package.
A. INTRODUCTION: LOANS 3878 AND 3926 IN THE CONTEXT OF THE CONVERTIBILITY
PLAN'
2.    The nature of the Convertibility Law, which made the Central Bank into a
currency board by mandating a 100 percent international reserve requirement for high-
powered money, creates special challenges for the financial system. Actually, the
challenge points in both directions, given the symbiotic relationship of the Convertibility
Law with the financial system. While external shocks (which may be amplified as a
consequence of adopting the Convertibility Law) are first manifested in the financial
system, the health of the financial system on its own may also challenge the viability of
the Convertibility Plan. Whichever is the nature of the shock, it is critical for the sake of
the Convertibility Plan to have a strong financial system, as other countries, developed
and developing, are currently painfully realizing.
3.    The inherent rigidity of a currency board, which denies the use of discretionary
monetary or exchange rate policy, has contributed to building the credibility of
Argentina's stabilization program. At the same time, such rigidity reduces the ability of
the Central Bank to provide the functions of lender-of-last-resort and other monetary
operations, which usually, in times of crisis, facilitate the stabilization of the banking
system. Furthermore, unlike Hong Kong's currency board, which counts on significant
excess reserves for use in case of crisis, Argentina's access to such reserves has
I This sub-section is taken from, "Argentina: Financial Sector Review," World Bank, Report 17864-AR, Sept. 28,
1998 (hereafter, "Financial Sector Review").



2
historically been quite limited. As a result, with a monetary base that is very susceptible
to movements in capital flows, interest rates become a major adjustment variable.
4.    Large fluctuations in interest rates have a direct impact on the banking system
through the changed valuation of its assets and liabilities, and indirectly through their
impact on real economic activity. Prolonged rises in interest rates punish more severely
weakest banks first, leading often to insolvency and contagion of other banks which
under other arrangements would not be as susceptible to a crisis. While both the
exchange rate and monetary policy rigidities of the Convertibility Law, and the resulting 
limitations to the lender-of-last-resort function, have played a constructive role in
preventing crises by instilling discipline on individual banks and the Argentine banking
system as a whole, once a crisis occurs, these very qualities become serious impediments
to the stabilization of the banking system.
The 1994/95 Challenge
5.    The challenge of the currency board to the financial system became evident
during the Tequila Crisis. Argentina's crisis in 1994/95 began as an exchange rate crisis,
not a banking crisis. Initially, Argentine banks experienced outflows from peso-
denominated accounts and inflows into dollar-denominated accounts, reflecting a concern
about the maintenance of convertibility. Such concerns were related to political
uncertainty leading to the May 1995 Presidential elections, recent slippages in fiscal anct
current account balances, rapid growth in credit, and the absence of an IMF program.2
As long as confidence in the financial system was maintained, the Government could deal
with the currency run through the dollarization of the financial system. In that sense, the
presence of a bimonetary system played a constructive role during the crisis, by providing
an alternative to outright capital flight.
6.    By March of 1995, the shrinkage in domestic money related to outflows of capitnl
(and lack of access to international credit) had produced significant increases in credit
risk within the banking system, and the character of the crisis changed from a run on the
peso to a run on both the peso and the domestic banks. The structural conditions of the
banking sector--which were characterized by the absence of deposit insurance, limited
nature of a lender of last resort, and a segmented and inefficient financial system, as we] L
as memories of many previous financial crises that ended in asset confiscation--fueled a
systemic run on deposits (mostly by domestic residents).
7.    For the first four months of the crisis prior to the May Presidential elections,
Argentina suffered a massive liquidity shock, with bank deposits declining by 18 perceni;
(Annex 4, Figure 2), and liquid international reserves by 30 percent, as access to the
international financial markets was cut off (with the exception of multilateral lending).
Under the Convertibility Plan, where the monetary base has to be fully backed by
international reserves, capital outflows result in the demonetization of the economy.
However, the credit squeeze in the economy was moderated by a reduction in reserve
requirements, and the increased use of dollar denominated bonds as part of international
2 See "Maintaining Financial Stability in Global Economy" Remarks by Pedro Pou in a Conference
sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas, 1997.



3
reserves. This demonetization affected both the performance of the financial system, but
also, as expected, real economic activity, leading to a sharp recession. From a policy
perspective, given that bank reserve requirements were less than 100 percent, M2 at that
time was about 3.5 times the stock of international reserves, under the Convertibility Law
the Central Bank had more limited resources than other countries to confront a run
against bank deposits (being a weak "lender of last resort").
8.    By the end of May, 1995, forceful action both by the Government (cutting the
fiscal deficit and obtaining support for its new economic program by multilateral
organizations) and the Central Bank (through skillful management of liquidity to the
financial system, including lowering remunerated reserve requirements, and the extension
of credit through swaps and rediscounts) reinstated confidence in the peso and the
banking system's solvency. Additional measures included the establishment of a
privately managed small-depositor deposit insurance scheme and the establishment of
trust funds to facilitate the privatization of provincial banks (partly funded by Loan 3878)
and the restructuring of private sector banks (partly funded by Loan 3926). These
measures facilitated the return of deposits to the banking system, which, by early 1996,
reached their pre-crisis levels (Annex 4, Figure 2). The two loans analyzed here,
moreover, provided foreign reserves to Argentine authorities at a crucial time. Dollars
deposited in the foreign account of the Central Bank were converted to pesos and then
used to capitalize the two trust funds charged with achieving the structural changes
outlined in the loans' objectives.
B. OBJECTIVES
Common Objectives
9.    While focusing on somewhat different specific issues, the two loans shared
common objectives and provided reserves bolstering the convertibility plan. Both were
attempts to restore confidence in the system by eliminating long-recognized structural
problems in banking. The President's Report (PR) for loan 3878 noted that, due to their
poor performance, "provincial banks have been a major and chronic issue, and the current
financial crisis is providing a historic opportunity to bring about structural and difficult-
to-reverse change." Similarly, the PR for 3926 noted that it would contribute to the
restoration of confidence in the banking system by, "hasten[ing] the process of
consolidation ...and improv[ing] the financial structure of a distressed banking sector in
the context of acquisitions, mergers, and restructurings."
10.   The similarity between the loans extended to institutional design. In each case,
the loans were used to partially capitalize Trust Funds. The Inter-American Development
Bank also played a key co-financing role in capitalizing the Trust Fund for Provincial
Development, and provided US$750 million in support. These two funds then on-lent to
individual banks or to provinces to facilitate an ownership change at a troubled bank
(either through acquisition or merger). Both the provincial banks targeted under loan
3878 and, to a lesser extent, the troubled private banks covered under loan 3926 were
insolvent. Although the methods to facilitate transactions under the two loans varied, the
funds supplied were, therefore, an important part of the restructuring process. Indeed, a



4
strong case can be made that, without these funds, far fewer transactions would have
taken place.
11.   A final reason to analyze the two loans in the same document is simply that sorne
banks accessed both funds - that is, a private bank bought and later merged with a
provincial bank3.
Objectives Specific to Loan 3878 (Provincial Bank Privatization)
12.   Although the two loans shared common objectives, each focused on a different
part of the banking sector, and each, therefore, had its own more narrowly tailored goals.
First, the Loan 3878 was designed to support the privatization of up to fifteen provincial
banks comprising about ten percent of total banking assets (forty percent of provincial
banking assets). Second, because the provincial banks were insolvent, their balance
sheets would be divided into a so-called good bank (to be assumed by the private
purchaser) and a residual entity, which would remain the responsibility of the province.
The loan proceeds would be used to support the orderly and timely resolution of residual
liabilities. Third, in the event of failed privatization, the loans would provide resources to
the provinces to facilitate bank closures. The second and third objectives lead naturally
to the fourth which was to improve the fiscal situation in provinces, both in the short-term
through the immediate injection of funds, and in the longer term by severing ties with
banks that had long been fiscal drains. A fifth, and final, objective was to bring
additional banks into the monitoring and supervisory umbrella of the Central Bank
(BCRA), as many provincial banks had not complied fully with regulatory requirements;
in the past.
Objectives Specific to Loan 3926 (Bank Reform Loan)
13.   The private bank consolidation process was, by its private sector nature, more
dynamic and thus timing and volumes were harder to predict than was the privatization
process. In privatization, the actors -- the provinces and their banks - had a clear
objective to sell and as rapidly as possible. By contrast, private consolidation was a fast
moving process where business opportunities appeared sporadically, often after long
negotiations. Out of necessity, this was reflected in the objectives and the operating
guidelines for Loan 3926. The Loan was designed, first, to stimulate and hasten the
process of consolidation of a fragmented private banking sector. In so doing, it would,
second, improve the financial structure of a distressed banking sector by encouraging
acquisitions and mergers that matched weaker partners with stronger ones.
14.   In what follows, each loan is evaluated based both on its contribution to the
shared, broad objectives and with respect to its own more narrowly tailored objectives.
3Each loan, however, is treated separately in the accompanying statistical appendices.



5
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Context Surrounding World Bank Involvement
15.    Hyperinflation in the late 1 980s severely undermined the ability of banks and
other financial institutions to serve as effective intermediaries between savers and
investors. The price stability resulting from the 1991 Convertibility Plan provided an
opportunity for sustained financial sector development. The Argentine government
placed a high priority on restructuring many financial institutions to ensure that such
development was not ultimately de-stabilizing. The World Bank was clearly an
important partner in this process, and the two loans reviewed here are, perhaps, the
clearest illustration of the Bank's efforts to facilitate structural change in the Argentine
financial sector.
16.    Substantial recent involvement in the sector put Bank staff well along the learning
curve in identifying which structural difficulties could feasibly be addressed. Beginning
with the 1986 report, "Banking Sector: The Need for Reform," Bank staff had completed
at least four substantial pieces of economic and sector work and three loans aimed at
financial sector reform prior to the two loans discussed here (Annex 3, Table 1). In
addition, the President's Report (PR) for loan 3926 noted that the capabilities of the
Superintendency of Financial Entities (SEF) were improved during the 1 990s under the
Bank's Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (3362-AR). These repeated
interactions helped forge strong relationships between Bank staff and Argentine officials.
The high levels of trust between the two parties likely increased the probabilities of
success for the loans analyzed here.
Evolution of Banking System4
17.         Since Convertibility, the Argentine financial system had undergone a series
of fundamental changes. Hyperinflation in the 1980s had reduced the financial system to
levels below that found in the lowest income countries, and in a certain sense these past
crises, coupled with effective policies in recent years, have helped make the system more
robust today. Once credibility of the Convertibility Law was established, inflation
decelerated and the re-intermediation of the financial system began in earnest. As seen in
Annex 4, Figure 1, credit, both total and to the private sector, has grown significantly in
recent years, though financial depth (M3/GDP), while growing rapidly, is still somewhat
modest relative to other countries at comparable levels of per capita income.
18.    The 'Tequila' crisis of 1994-95 marked a turning point for the authorities, with a
run on some of the smaller banks and then on the system. Deposits declined sharply (far
left, Annex 4, Figure 2), and interest rates rose by as much as 1500 basis points on peso
4 This sub-section also draws heavily on the, "Financial Sector Review." The figures that follow show developments
by type of bank from Tequila through late 1997. Robert Cull, co-author of this report, also constructed those figures.
Separating domestically-owned from foreign-owned private banks proved difficult given the available data sources.
That identification was not, therefore, updated for 1998 data. However, the most important developments occurred by
late 1997 and the data presented are sufficient to understand general trends. Most importantly, for the banks involved
in the transactions covered by these two loans, all data and analysis are extended through third quarter, 1998, the last
quarter for which BCRA data were available.



6
loans and 900 basis points on dollar loans. The dramatic 18% decline in total banking
sector deposits in first quarter, 1995, masks much steeper declines in deposits at weaker
banks, many of them owned by the provinces. The crisis was halted by the assembly of a
support package by the multilateral institutions, convincing support by the governmern
for convertibility, and a credible program of bank restructuring and closure, of which the
two loans reviewed here were a key part.
19.   Annex 4, Figure 2 also describes the evolution of deposits by type of bank by
quarter from the fourth quarter of 1994 to third quarter, 1997. In nominal terms, total
deposits have been increasing more or less steadily since second quarter, 1995. Total
deposits in both private domestic and public banks floated around the 20 billion peso
mark, although a recent spate of foreign acquisitions coincided with a dip in private
domestic deposits late in the period. The increase in total deposits is accounted for by
foreign banks and, to a lesser extent, privatized banks.
20.  To some extent, the increase for foreign banks reflects not only acquisitions late .n
the period, but also depositor flight to quality, especially during the Tequila crisis. In
1994-95, for example, the number of foreign-owned banks did not increase (Annex 4,
Figure 4) but their deposits, both in nominal terms and as a share of total deposits,
climbed steadily if not dramatically. The share figures for foreign-owned banks did,
however, stabilize by mid 1995 (Annex 4, Figure 3). The only type to lose nominal
deposits (relative to the December, 1994 level) was the private domestic banks, and
losses occurred in two waves. Early in the period, private domestic deposits declined
during the flight to quality. There were also a number of domestic bank closures at this
time. The end of the period saw a decline in deposits that coincided with aforementioned
acquisitions by foreign-owned banks, and some of those transactions were financed by
loan 3926. These figures provide some evidence that the two loans contributed to the
restoration of confidence in the sector - foreign and privatized banks led the recovery i:l
deposits and these were among the banks that benefited most from the assistance of the
Trust Funds.
21.   In terms of the major factors affecting loan outcomes, the overall development c f
the sector is important to keep in mind. The two loans attempted serious restructuring 4)f
some of the weakest banks in a fragmented system. At the same time, regulators
permitted an increasingly strong foreign presence in the sector, and regulation and
supervision of banks was substantially improved.5
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.   The Transactions
Common Elements
22.   Though the details of the transactions underwritten by the two loans differed, andI
thus will be discussed separately, they did share certain similarities. First, because these
5 See "Financial Sector Review."



7
transactions were focused on changing the governance structure at faltering banks, there
were substantial difficulties in attracting prime-rated buyers. In many cases, the only
banks willing to undertake these acquisitions or mergers were themselves in a weakened
position. The injection of funds for transactions covered by 3926 and the opportunity to
enter provincial banking for acquirers covered by 3878 were likely most attractive to
banks in need of change regarding their core business. In addition, certain restrictions
placed on recipients of 3926 funds (described below) also limited the attractiveness of
that type of assistance and thus may have affected the roster of potential acquirers.
23.   The low quality of the banks on the sales block meant that the two loans shared a
second feature -- the funds disbursed were used to fill holes either in bank capital or in
provincial finances that were brought about by poor past performance. Without these
resources it would have been difficult, perhaps impossible, to face up to the "sins of the
past" and thus achieve ownership changes. Another, more minor, feature shared by these
transactions was that the troubled banks not only had weak financial assets, their physical
assets were also unattractive. For the provincial banks, their branch networks were quite
extensive, which meant relatively high shares of fixed to total assets. For some of the
banks acquired in the 3926 transactions, their existing branch coverage overlapped with
those of potential purchasers. In both cases, this may have made these transactions more
difficult. These "unfavorable initial conditions" need to be kept in mind when evaluating
these loans.
Loan 3878: Provincial Bank Privatizations
Purchasers
24.   Provincial banks were not particularly attractive acquisition targets - they had
been losing money over an extended period and the quality of their assets was low. In
addition, these banks were mostly small and their asset portfolios were not well
diversified (at least geographically). This is likely to have influenced who was willing to
take these banks over. Annex 3, Table 2 indicates that the purchasers were not the best
performing banks in Argentina. They were mostly small - none had over US$1.2 billion
(and most had less than US$500 million) in assets at the time of the acquisition, and none
held more than one percent of total banking assets in Argentina.
25.   Appraisal evaluations indicated grave doubts about finding buyers for these
banks. It comes as little surprise, therefore, that the eventual purchasers were not large,
well-functioning banks. The return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) figures
in Annex 3, Table 2 show that in all cases except Mendoza, Prevision Social, Jujuy, and
Santa Cruz, the provincial banks were bought by banks with ROA and ROE below the
sector average (and often well below). Further, the Jujuy and Santa Cruz cases are
aberrations because both were bought by former provincial banks (Jujuy by Banco
Macro-Misiones and Santa Cruz by Banco San Juan). Due to the transfer of bad assets to
the residual entity, these two newly privatized entities tended to enjoy great initial
success and, therefore, their performance, at that time, probably did not reflect their
(likely) long-term performance.



8
26.   Annex 3, Table 2 also shows that the transactions varied widely in the share of
total capital transferred to private owners (5 0.4% to 100%), and in the share of capital
held by the largest private owner (34.5% to 100%). These ownership stakes might have
had implications for the corporate governance of the privatized entities and might,
therefore, have affected the performance of the privatized banks. Given the short post-
privatization time-series available, however, the governance-performance links that we
discuss below should be interpreted with caution.
Sellers (The Provinces)
27.   One feature shared by the public provincial banks was their penchant for losing
money. This provided the underlying fiscal rationale for privatization.6 Recent research
has demonstrated that, based on the observed loss rates at these banks, the present valuw
of future re-capitalization required by Argentine law exceeded the maximum short-termL
costs associated with privatization. As will be described below in more detail, these
short-term costs came from realizing and cleaning up the past losses of the provincial
banks. The main conclusion is that, even if the provinces receive nothing for their
privatized entities and recover no residual assets, it made sense from a fiscal perspective
to privatize to avoid the large future losses of the provincial bank.
28.   Although the fiscal benefit is not likely to be the only, let alone the most
important, gain from privatization, these results suggest that the fiscal gains alone may
have justified privatization. In what follows, we discuss a handful of ways in which the
privatization process and residual asset recovery might have been improved. We shoulc.
not, however, lose sight of the fact that Loan 3878 produced a fundamental fiscal benefit
to the provinces that privatized. Below, we also provide evidence on the post-
privatization performance gains and the overall effect that privatization had on the
provincial banking sectors.
Privatization Method: The Details
29.   A key institutional innovation allowed the provinces to meet the fiscal and
political costs of privatization more easily. In all but one case, the purchaser of the
privatized entity did not assume ownership of all pre-privatization assets and liabilities.
Although the individual cases varied, the basic strategy was to first place attractive assetls
in the privatized entity and then to match those assets with liabilities. The remaining
assets and liabilities were then transferred into a residual entity.
30.   Residual asset recovery would have been neither quick enough, nor on such
advantageous terms to liquidators, that it would have covered most residual liabilities.
Consequently, provinces needed some way to meet a substantial portion of their residual
obligations immediately. To address this, the Argentine Government, the Inter-America.-,
Development Bank and the World Bank developed the Trust Fund, a part of the federal
governnent that extended loans to provinces that planned to privatize their provincial
6 In this sub-section, we briefly summarize results found in George R.G. Clarke and Robert Cull, "Why Privatize? Th;!
Case of Argentina's Public Provincial Banks," World Development, 27(5), May, 1999 (a), pp. 867-888.



9
banks. The provinces then used the loan proceeds to pay off part of the obligations of the
residual entity. In this way, short-term obligations were converted to longer terms. From
a political perspective, financing obligations in this way was presumably also beneficial,
as the yearly loan payments due to the Fund are less eye-catching than short-term
obligation payments would have been. More fundamentally, because the provinces
lacked the fiscal resources to meet these short-term obligations, it was imperative that
some re-scheduling be done. The Trust Fund, therefore, enabled provincial governments
to design privatization arrangements that they could afford and that mitigated political
objections.
Contract Terns
31.   In an implementation completion report, one might expect to focus more narrowly
on whether objectives were met rather than on how they were met. Here, however, we
discuss the contract features in detail for two reasons. First, it helps underscore the
difficulties in structuring these transactions. Second, analyzing the trade-offs made by
both parties to these transactions may yield some lessons that deepen our understanding
regarding privatization. In addition to price paid, there were other non-price features of
the privatization agreements that appear to have been important that are summarized in
Annex 3, Table 3.
32.   In the Argentine context, opponents to bank privatization were bought off through
agreements to limit the number of layoffs or to compensate laid-off workers and to
maintain branches in certain cities. Based upon a review of the requirements imposed on
the purchasers of the privatized banks, it appears that limits on branch closings and
layoffs were the rule rather than the exception (Annex 3, Table 3). Of the sixteen
contracts summarized, half had some restriction on the number of employees that could
be dismissed. Another purchaser agreed to implement a job re-training program. Three
of the contracts stipulated that the private purchasers maintain the existing branch
network and ten permitted the closure of branches, but required that the purchaser
maintain service provision in all locations served at the time of privatization. These
contract features strongly suggest that the political buyoffs present in other privatizations
were also evident in Argentina.
33.   As noted above, the public provincial banks were chronic money losers frequently
in need of frequent re-capitalizations. To pass a substantial share of their low-quality
assets onto a private purchaser while, at the same time, imposing branching and labor
restrictions on that purchaser would have been difficult, if not impossible, without
concessions on other dimensions. The most attractive of these were the fiscal agency
contracts that were awarded to purchasers to provide banking services to the provinces
and guarantees as to the quality of the acquired assets. The fiscal agency contracts,
which, among other things, provide income to the private owners for coordinating the
payments activities of the provincial government, varied in duration from five to twenty
years. Ten of the sixteen agreements provided fiscal agency contracts of at least ten
years. In interviews, the new private owners confirmed that these contracts were of vital
importance, especially initially, as an abnormally high share of the privatized banks'
income is generated from services (described in more detail below).



10
34.    In many cases, however, the lure of the fiscal agency contract appears to have
been insufficient to entice a private bank to acquire assets of dubious quality. Rather than
verify the quality of each individual asset, which proved time-intensive, many provinces
ultimately took to guaranteeing a substantial share of the assets transferred to the
privatized entity. World Bank staff were quick to recognize asset quality verification as a
potential stumbling block in these transactions. Given that the privatization program
supported by the Trust Fund was scheduled to close in 1998, these privatizations had to
be completed quickly. Despite the potential fiscal risks, the decision to guarantee assets
was probably a good one. Without it, fewer privatizations probably would have occurred.
35.    In six cases, the province guaranteed assets up to either a fixed limit or a certain
share of the total assets acquired. In two other cases, private owners were able to
substitute assets from the residual entity for privatized assets during some trial period; i:A
another, the buyer could shift low-quality assets to the residual for a period. Finally, in
two cases the guarantee was set as a fraction of the residual assets recovered.
Presumably, since the owner of the privatized entity was also charged with managing the
residual entity, the idea was to increase incentives to recover residual assets. Only four
cases did not guarantee the privatized asset portfolio at all.
36.    Annex 3, Table 4 shows the size of the privatized and residual entities for the
sixteen completed privatizations that relied on Trust Fund assistance.7 The most striking
feature of the data is the size of the residual entities. In only four of fifteen cases for
which data are available did the province manage to transfer more than half of the pre-
privatization assets to the purchaser and one of these (Entre Rios) is somewhat
misleading. Both Entre Rios and Chaco had nearly finalized their privatizations before
the Fiduciary Fund became operational. A desire to provide some fiscal relief to these
early privatizers enabled them to enter the program after the fact. Because most details :f
these two privatizations had been worked out, hovvever, neither transaction was typical cf
those that followed. In particular, Entre Rios transferred all pre-privatization assets to the
purchaser, and later used Fiduciary Fund assistance to guarantee some of them.8
Residual Asset Recovery
37. Experience in Argentina and elsewhere indicates that residual asset recovery is
exceedingly difficult, perhaps the most intractable of the problems associated with
privatization. Problems are severe when the public sector remains centrally involved in
the recovery effort. The most promising solution is to begin the process early and to
7 We refer to the cases listed in Table as provincial bank privatizations throughout the paper. One of the sixteen,
Municipal de Tucuman, is referred to as a municipal rather than a provincial bank in Argentina. Because municipal
bank privatizations were also eligible for Fiduciary Fund assistance, we include that case in our analysis. Data for
another, the Santa Fe privatization, were not yet available as of our last visit to Buenos Aires (January 1999).
s Correspondence between World Bank staff and Argentine officials makes it clear that the Chaco and Entre Rios case,
were different than the others. On the one hand, Argentine officials wanted to provide fiscal relief for two provinces
that had privatized early. On the other, Bank staff were concerned about funding transactions that did not meet the
criteria set forth in loan, and doing so in an 'after the fact' manner. In the end, Bank staff decided that privatizations
undertaken prior to the approval of the loan could be supported, provided they met the criteria set forth. On that basis,
Corrientes was excluded from receiving support, while Chaco and Entre Rios were deemed eligible. Neither Chaco nc-
Entre Rios have enjoyed large post-privatization performance improvements, at least in comparison with the other
cases (see below). One cannot help but wonder whether it had something to do with the way they entered the program.



I1
involve the private sector as early as possible to overcome the public sector's political
and incentives' constraints.
38.   Annex 3, Table 4 summarizes the provinces' experience with residual asset
recovery. So far, results have not been impressive. In most cases, provincial
governments realized that they were ill equipped to handle the recovery effort, and they
therefore initiated incentive contracts to encourage the purchasers of the privatized
entities to try to recover these assets. The provinces granted the privatized entity a higher
share of the face value of recovered assets for the items that were most difficult to
recover (as indicated primarily by the length of time that the asset had been deemed non-
performing). While the underlying intuition may have been sound, the figures in Annex
3, Table 4 suggest that these relatively simple incentive contracts have failed to produce
substantial asset recovery.
39.   Mendoza's experience is instructive because the residual entity created from its
two provincial banks (Banco de la Provincia de Mendoza and Banco de Prevision Social)
is large and the recovery process has been rife with hiccups.9 The province has, so far,
recovered only one percent of its residual assets, and the owners of the privatized entity
(one private bank was created from the two provincial banks) are no longer involved in
the process. Provincial policy makers decided that it would be best to acquire the
services of private experts skilled in bank asset recovery. That would be difficult to do,
however, without providing very detailed information on the assets to be recovered -
information on the delinquency of credit re-payment did not adequately describe the
prospects for asset recovery.
40.   To improve the available information, the province has employed about one
hundred people (many of them ex-employees of the provincial banks) to make a complete
catalogue of the residual assets. The ultimate goal is a database that can be searched by
credit (or by creditor), which provides complete information on any guarantees or
collateral attached to each loan. Initial interest in the residual assets has been high, with
over twenty companies reviewing the existing database. Mendoza intends to award the
recovery contract to the company that displays the most technical expertise. A subset of
those that have reviewed the database will pay a fee for the right to make a presentation
that outlines their asset recovery capability.
41.   Determining which company is best suited to recover assets appears to be as
much art as science. The only certainty is that the private companies generally will only
manage but not bid money for the right to recover assets.
Strategy for Separating Residualfrom Privatized Assets
42.   Annex 3, Table 5, which presents a consolidated balance sheet for the privatized
and residual entities created to date, provides more detail on the "anatomy" of these
transactions. On the assets side of the balance sheet, 92% of the available liquid assets
9 Bank staff were also quick to recognize that residual asset recovery was not going well and required a substantial re-
thinking regarding strategy. A special paper was commissioned to analyze these issues. Many of the suggestions from
that paper were eventually incorporated into Mendoza's asset recovery strategy.



12
(which excludes public bonds) were transferred to the privatized entity. Among the
public bonds, 76% of those that were publicly quoted were transferred to the privatized
entity. Only 17% of those that were not publicly quoted were transferred to privatized
entities. These figures should not be surprising, since private purchasers had a strong
preference for liquid, easily valued assets. In contrast, they assumed only about a third of
the loans and the fixed assets of the provincial banks. Presumably, the private purchasers
have been able to meet their geographic service requirements (Annex 3, Table 3) with far
fewer fixed assets than those of the old public provincial banks, an indication that the
public banks had inefficient branch networks and poor information technology. The
figures also suggest that the provinces will face an uphill battle selling many illiquid
fixed assets and recovering loans of dubious quality.
43.   On the liabilities side, provinces transferred over ninety percent of their private
deposits to the privatized entity. This reflects a desire to maintain the confidence of
depositors. Indeed, all of the owners of the privatized entities chose to keep the name of
the provincial bank that they acquired. In fact, in the case of Misiones and Rio Negro,
the acquirer chose to merge with the privatized bank, under the name of the provincial
bank.' These owners must have recognized the value of the provincial bank's name in
attracting, and holding onto, deposits. That the provinces were able to shift ownership of
their faltering banks to private entities without undermining the confidence of depositors
is a clear success of Loan 3878.
44.   Having transferred most private deposits to the privatized entities, the residual
entities were left with public sector deposits and obligations to BCRA and Banco de le
Naci6n, the two public banks that provided liquidity to faltering banks during the Tequila
Crisis. Over ninety percent of the BCRA/Naci6n obligations and almost eighty percent
of the public sector deposits of the provincial banks went into residual entities.
45.   Another important issue was whether the funds used to facilitate transactions weie
sufficient. Conversations with staff at each of the Trust Funds suggest that the authorithk s
were concerned about the moral hazard problems associated with 100% financing of
liabilities. In the case of provincial bank privatizations, it is clear that the strategy was to
cover some, but not all, residual liabilities. Annex 3, Table 6, presents a summary of the
funds received from the Trust Fund to facilitate the individual transactions, and the type
of liabilities that were retired with those funds. One potential problem with the Trust
Fund program was that maximum loan amounts were determined based on the assets of
the provincial bank rather than on the quality of those assets. The eight provinces that
received loans of US$78-80 million had pre-privatization assets ranging from US$314 to
US$523 million and shares of non-performing credits ranging from fourteen to sixty
percent. Within a given asset class, therefore, the assistance received by the weakest
banks might have been inadequate.
46.   Annex 3, Table 5, indicates, however, that residual obligations to financial
intermediaries (most to BCRA and Banco de la Naci6n) totaled US$1.8 billion while
Annex 3, Table 6, indicates that total Trust Fund disbursements were US$1.3 billion
(US$841 million going to BCRA and Naci6n). This suggests that, despite the limits,
1 The merged bank in the Misiones case, Banco Macro-Misiones, retains the names of both the province and the
acquirer.



13
provinces were able to retire a large share of these obligations with Trust Fund assistance.
Finally, although the share of Fiduciary Fund assistance devoted to personnel
compensation was small (six percent), these funds may have been crucial in designing
politically feasible privatizations.
The Decision to Privatize
47.    Given the fiscal benefit of privatization and the improvements in bank
performance, a natural question is why did some provinces not privatize at all and others
take so long to do so? More privatizations occurred than were originally envisaged in
the PR, and understanding what drove this outcome may be useful for subsequent Bank
work in the sector.
48.    Recent research indicates that poorly performing banks were far more likely to be
privatized than better performing banks."1 Poor performance could affect the probability
of privatization in several ways. First, poorly performing banks might have put greater
fiscal pressure on public finances, forcing policymakers to make tough decisions.
Another possibility is that the social cost of not privatizing the public banks, in terms of
greater likelihood of failure or a more inefficient allocation of credit, might have been
higher in those provinces with the worst performing banks. If policymakers were
concerned about social welfare, this might have encouraged them to privatize.
49.    Controlling for measures of bank quality, overstaffed banks were far less likely to
be privatized. This would be consistent with the hypothesis that opposition from labor
was greatest in the most over-staffed banks. Further, if overstaffing increased the
pressure on the government to restrict layoffs, it might also have increased the cost of
privatization to the government, in terms of higher guarantees of privatized assets or
larger residual entities. In addition, provinces that faced higher deficits were also more
likely to privatize their banks. One plausible explanation for this is that exogenous fiscal
crises make it more difficult to finance money-losing banks.12 Finally, when the bank
was large relative to the provincial banking sector, the province was less likely to
privatize. Other variables, including demographic controls, variables indicating political
affiliation of provincial policymakers and measures of transfers to the province from the
national government were statistically insignificant or were not robust to small variations
in model specification.
50.    At the least, by providing this source of data, Loan 3878 has furthered our
understanding about what factors influence privatization decisions. Fiscal pressures and
constraints imposed by powerful interest groups (i.e., bank employees) must be taken into
account when assessing the likelihood of privatization. Moreover, the design of the
transactions underwritten by the loan provided sufficient flexibility on these dimensions
to facilitate a high number of privatizations. In that sense, these results should be viewed
as confirmation that the design of the program was a sound one.
1 l The results described in this sub-section are from George R.G. Clarke and Robert Cull, "The Political Economy of
Privatization: An Empirical Analysis of Bank Privatization in Argentina," World Bank, Policy Research Working
Paper #1962, August, 1998.
12 This result was not, however, highly robust in different econometric specifications.



14
Loan 3926: Bank Reform Loan
51.    Operating guidelines spelled out in the PR ensured that the Fund would have twNo
competing objectives in allocating funds -- the financial integrity of fund and the use of
public money to accomplish structural change that improved sector stability. As stated in
the PR, "The Fund is established to facilitate and finance an orderly transition of assets
and liabilities from weak banks to financially and managerially strong banks. It will
provide no financing without a strong prospect of the bank's recovery." Potential
acquirers were required to have CAMEL ratings of 1 or 2 and be in compliance with
capital adequacy and liquidity requirements.'3 Selection bias problems made it difficult
to satisfy these competing objectives. The strongest banks were the ones who had the
least incentive to undergo the change in business direction associated with absorbing (or
merging with) a troubled bank. 14
52.    Another means of ensuring the financial integrity of the fund was to limit the size
of the loans extended to the acquirer. The Fund extended a combination of two different
types of loans. The first were secured or collateralized loans with maturities up to thre.
years. These were designed to refinance paybacks of BCRA re-discounts during the
Tequila Crisis. Thus, restoring liquidity to BCRA was a fundamental aspect of bolstering
confidence in the system. Of the loans disbursed by the Fund, roughly forty percent
(US$300 million) were secured (Annex 3, Table 7).
53.    The other lending instrument was a subordinated loan with maturity greater than
five years. 15 These loans were not to exceed, "25 percent of the risk-weighted assets
(RWA) for assets being acquired, 15 percent of RWA for assets involved in the case oi a
merger, or 10 percent of RWA for assets of a restructured bank." That the limit was
higher for acquisitions is one indication that this was the preferred transaction method i:f
the designers of the Fund. Again, the PR provides numerous indications that the
designers hoped that the program could be used to entice relatively strong banks to
absorb problem banks. The analysis that follows and conversations with Fund staff bot:Eh
indicate that this is not what occurred. The Fund was typically confronted with proposails
for assistance from weaker acquirers than originally hoped for.
54.    More generally, the Fund guidelines may not have permitted sufficient flexibilitly
in the way loans were structured to achieve all desired objectives. Perhaps stronger
potential acquirers should have been offered larger loans on better terms. Indeed, Fundl
staff indicated that a possible flaw in program design was that interest rates on these
loans were invariant to the quality of the acquirer. In addition, Fund boffowers could not
disburse dividends during the life of their loans (although Staff indicated that exception,
13 Banks rated 3 were also potential acquirers, but they were required to provide special evidence regarding the quali ;y
of their assets, the sufficiency of their capital, and the strength of their management (PR, p. 22).
14 Up to ten percent of the total funds disbursed by the Fund could be used for restructuring without merger or
acquisition. The PR indicates that banks that applied for restructuring funds had to demonstrate their capital adequa. (:
management strength, and business plan (a diagnostic to explain their difficulties). The program was designed to
encourage mergers and acquisitions rather than restructurings. Of the transactions undertaken by the Fund, only Barico
Liniers Sudamericano qualified as a restructuring.
15 The PR explicitly mentions an eight-year maturity for subordinated loans, but it also notes that the Fund had
discretion to "determine the type of each loan and their maturities."



15
were made). In short, adopting a "one-size-fits-all" approach with respect to acquirers
and their targets may have limited the effectiveness of the program.
55.   Although the PR does not explicitly state it, pre-specified limits on loan size and
interest rates were likely intended to signal that this was not merely a bail-out operation
for mismanaged banks. Only those that could be salvaged through the limited assistance
specified under program guidelines were worthy of rescue. This may have been
necessary to help restore confidence in the banking system. There was, however, one
program feature that may have been capable of ensuring the financial integrity of the
Fund without resort to relatively inflexible rules about lending. The Fund had access to
the proceeds of up toUS$2 billion generated by bond sales by the Argentine Government
and toUS$500 million in counterpart funds from the World Bank. Because the
bondholders were represented on the Board of Directors of the Fund, and because this
was a business proposition for them, they had both the ability and the desire to see that
the Fund's financial integrity be protected. Given this governance structure, the marginal
benefits of imposing additional restrictions on lending activities may have been small
relative to costs such restrictions imposed.
56.   It would be difficult (perhaps impossible) to properly specify a counter-factual
analysis with respect to these issues - that is, what would have happened had the
guidelines been more flexible, especially with respect to the quality of the borrower and
within the context of an improved banking environment? While we can never know for
certain whether stronger banks could have been enticed to participate, we do know that
some of the acquiring banks that did participate later failed. Fund losses from these
failures total US$70 million (Annex 3, Table 7). Given low demand for Trust Fund
loans, the final tranche conditionality of Loan 3926 was shifted over to Loan 3878 as per
Board-approved Amendment of April 1997. Thus, the Third Tranche of US$166 million
became a source to meet the funding needs of provincial privatizations.
57.   Any program can be improved, and the questions of 3926 described above should
not overshadow the loan's achievements. As noted, systemic stability was restored.
Despite failures of some banks that received loans, the Fund maintained its financial
integrity in that it remained profitable and solvent. Finally, as described in more detail
below, the Fund was involved in nineteen major transactions that involved seventy-three
of the banks that were operating in Argentina in first quarter, 1995. A program that
touched that many institutions can take credit towards increased systemic stability.
2.   Post-Transaction Performance
Overview
58.   Outcomes under the two loans were similar in at least four respects. First, each
loan helped facilitate a substantial number of transactions in a relatively short time
period. Second, these structural changes were accomplished at relatively little cost. For
provincial bank privatization, the Fund disbursed US$1.3 billion to achieve ownership
changes at sixteen banks whose pre-Tequila assets totaled about US$6 billion. With
US$767 million in disbursements, the Fund for Bank Capitalization contributed to



16
acquisitions, mergers, and restructurings at banks whose pre-Tequila assets totaled
US$14.6 billion.'6 The banks involved in these transactions comprised nearly a quarter
of the banking system's pre-Tequila assets. Such large-scale structural change must also
have contributed to enhanced sector stability over the longer term. Establishing a strong
causal link is difficult, but, whereas during the Tequila Crisis the sector lost total
deposits, during more recent crises - in Asia, Russia, and Brazil - total deposits have held
steady (or grown slightly).
Overall Banking Sector Development
59.   Disentangling the links between these loans and banking sector development is
difficult because, at the same time that the loans were helping to shape the sector, the
sector was influencing the success of loan outcomes. We note at the outset that these
sectoral changes are, therefore, possible to interpret in multiple ways. Summarizing them
is, however, an important element in evaluating the loans.
60.   Data on shares of deposits (Annex 4, Figure 3) indicate that the largest jump since
the inception of the two loans has been for foreign-owned banks (from 15 to over 3 5%j1,
and that the increase has come at the expense of the private domestic banks whose shatre
declined from 45 to 25% of total deposits. Determining whether the drop in private
domestic banks' share was attributable to closures and takeovers by foreign-owned barks
or to a shift in depositors' preferences is difficult using only this data. Some tentative
conclusions can be reached. Mergers and closures in the wake of the Tequila Crisis
account for a steep drop in the number of private domestic banks early in the period
(Annex 4, Figure 4). In the first five quarters of the period, the number of private
domestic banks declined by over 40% (from 108 to 65). At the same time, their share of
deposits declined by only 5% indicating that those banks that closed were not particulaliy
large, and that the merger process may have helped eliminate a major shift in deposits
away from domestic banks.
61.   Throughout 1996, when the numbers of private domestic banks remained near (60,
their share of total deposits increased, and at a pace commensurate with that for the
foreign-owned banks (whose number also did not change). Depositors' perceptions of
the private domestic banks that remained, therefore, do not appear to have been negatiNe
It would seem unlikely that the young and untested deposit insurance scheme of 1995 c.m
account for the slight mid-period increase in the share of deposits to private domestic
banks. The consolidation process likely deserves some credit. The point is important
because, as will become clearer later, the post-merger performance of some of the private
domestic banks has not been impressive. To attribute those failings to the merger
process, however, may not be justified, especially when the deposits data suggest that tl e
consolidation may have improved depositor perceptions and thus contributed to stabilit,y.
62.   As noted, foreign acquisitions in 1996 and 1997 account for the late-period
decline in the number of private domestic banks (Annex 4, Figure 4). The private
domestic banks that were acquired were relatively large ones. The number of foreign-
16 To avoid double counting, the US$14.6 billion figure excludes privatized provincial banks that accessed both
fiduciary funds.



17
owned banks increased by slightly more than 25% (from 30 to 38), while the share of
foreign-owned deposits doubled (from 18 to 36%). On the flip side, the number of
private domestic banks declined by one-sixth (from 60 to 50), while deposit share
declined deeply from 43% to 25%. The decline in private domestic banks' deposit share
since December, 1996 was very different from the one in 1995. The post-Tequila shake-
out affected smaller, weaker banks that were forced to cease operations (either through
closure or merger); the 1996-97 decline resulted from foreign acquisitions designed, it
appears, to obtain large market shares. To the extent that Loan 3926 assisted in the 1996-
97 transactions, it likely shifted assets and liabilities to banks with stronger capital bases
and thus contributed to a more stable system. We next discuss the post-transaction
performance of the banks covered under each loan separately.
Loan 3878: Privatizations
63.    Before describing the transactions and the post-privatization performance in the
individual cases, it is important to take stock of the broad objectives accomplished under
the loan. First, there was greater participation than expected. Seventeen public banks
switched over to private ownership, and even the Cordoba Bank has recently expressed
strong interest in joining that group.17 The high participation rates are doubly gratifying
given their fiscal implications. As described above, the estimates of future losses avoided
by the provinces (through re-capitalization of their banks) are substantial, and they appear
to outweigh the short-term costs associated with residual liabilities. Shifting provincial
fiscal resources from onerous bank capitalization to other programs should, moreover,
have a beneficial effect on social welfare. In addition, gradual and improved credit
allocation by the privatized banks should mean higher growth and increased tax revenues,
which should also improve the fiscal health of the provinces. Those last improvements
depend on whether the ownership changes have resulted in improved performance. We
analyze that issue using pre- and post-privatization data on the individual banks involved
in the transactions.
Pre-Privatization: Comparisons of Acquirers with Targets
64. Annex 3, Table 8, which presents comparisons between the buyers and the
provincial banks that they eventually acquired, provides a more detailed description of
the purchasers as of the first quarter of 1995. Chaco's privatization was complete by then
and a residual entity had already been created. (Therefore, the size comparison between
the purchaser and the provincial bank is misleading.) Excluding Jujuy and Santa Cruz
(which, again, were bought by ex-provincial banks) and Municipal de Tucuman
(municipal banks tended to be much smaller than provincial banks), the purchaser held
fewer assets than the provincial bank in eight of eleven cases. 8 In some cases, the
17 The seventeen banks include the sixteen listed below in Table and Municipal de ParanA whose assets and liabilities
were assumed by Entre Rios S.A. through a liquidation process supported by Fiduciary Fund loans. That Mendoza and
Santa Fe were part of the program was a success in that they (along with Cordoba) were the largest of the banks
targeted for privatization under the loan.
18 We consider Mendoza and Prevision Social one case here because the two were merged after their purchase by
Banco Repuiblica. Republica's US$691 million in assets in first quarter, 1995 comprised less than half of the joint
assets of Mendoza and Prevision Social at that time. As of April, 1999 it had become clear that Republica was not up



18
target's assets were more then 2.5 times larger than the size of the acquirer's assets. The
purchase of a provincial bank, therefore, appears to have been an important growth
opportunity for the acquirers.
65.    Targets and acquirers tended to have different business orientations. The
provincial banks tended to lend a higher share of their funds to the public sector than did
their acquirers (Annex 3, Table 8). Acquirers, by contrast, lent higher shares to
mortgages, "prendas" (many of them car loans), and to the financial sector. Neither
group concentrated heavily on personal lending. The database used to construct the
portfolio orientation figures in Annex 3, Table 8, identified only the five mentioned
categories of credits. If we assume that the remainder went to businesses, provincial
banks were much more involved in that type of lending than their acquirers were.
Acquirers channeled 38.3% of their credit outside the five categories; provincial banks
directed 57.2% of their credit outside the categories. Figures in Clarke and Cull (1999),
which rely on a different, more dated database, indicate that those businesses that
received funds from provincial banks tended to be located in primary production and, to a
lesser extent, manufacturing.
66.    Many of these acquirers were so-called "mayoristas," or wholesale banks.
Interviews with directors of Macro (which acquired and later merged with Misiones) and
Mildesa (which acquired and later merged with Rio Negro) indicated that the wholesale
banking business was drying up as foreign entry increased competition. Many needed to
break into retail banking to survive, and the provincial banks offered them a useful way
of doing this. This does not imply that these banks were in hopeless situations. Although
Annex 3, Table 2, indicated that their ROA and ROE figures tended to be below the
prevailing sector average, their net worth tended to be higher and their percent of bad
credit much lower than the provincial banks they acquired.19 The transactions, therefoae,
clearly placed the former provincial banks in hands that are more capable, and this is a
key indication that important loan objectives were satisfied. The figures in Annex 3,
Table 8, however, indicate that the new owners had to adapt to an entirely new type of
business and, as is reflected below, that adjustment was not always smooth.
Post-Privatization Performance
67.    One positive adjustment for the acquirers was the increase in income from
services. Annex 3, Table 8, indicates that the provincial banks tended to generate a hig];er
share of income from services (27%) than their acquirers did (16%). The privatized
entities continued to generate a disproportionate share of income through services due,
largely, to the fiscal agency contracts with the provinces. In fact, during the period just
after privatization, most privatized banks received more than 40% of their income from
services (Annex 3, Table 9). This, no doubt, reflects the initial dislocation associated
with creating a commercially oriented lending business largely from scratch. Most
to the task of integrating these three banks. BCRA has begun a search for new ownership. The case is instructive
because it indicates that the owners of the privatized banks should not expect too much regulatory/supervisoiy
forbearance from BCRA.
19 BCRA classifies a loan into one of six categories. Under the present guidelines loans in the bottom three categories -
- those with problems and deficient coverage, those with high risk of borrower insolvency and recovery difficulty, and
those deemed unrecoverable -- are considered non-performing ("bad credits").



19
privatized entities have experienced gradual declines in service income shares since their
inception, although the levels remain above those of the old provincial banks. The fiscal
agency contracts remain key to the survival of the privatized entities, especially during
the early years, and their renewal represents an important concern for the new managers.
68.   Aside from the decline in service income share, there have been other important
developments for the privatized banks. For example, in the vast majority of cases the
privatized banks have experienced rapid growth in assets, liabilities, loans, and deposits.
This growth was most pronounced for the earliest privatizers (cohorts one and two in
Annex 3, Table9). Average asset growth for the earliest (cohort one) privatizers was
32% per year, compared to an average rate of 19.2% for the whole banking sector. The
second group (cohort two) has grown at an average annual rate of 3 8%, compared to 19%
for the system.20 Although the late privatizers (cohort three) have grown more slowly,
this is largely due to Mendoza and Prevision Social. These banks were involved in
lengthy disputes, between the province and the private buyer, leading to delays and
adjustments in the residual and privatized portfolios. For three other banks in the third
cohort, Tucuman, San Luis, and San Juan, assets have grown between 28-42% per year,
well above the system's 21% growth rate. A fourth, Santiago del Estero, has experienced
above average growth in loans but not in assets, liabilities, or deposits.
69.   In general, across cohorts liabilities have grown at rates similar to assets, and
deposits and loans have grown more rapidly. There was, therefore, a clear pattern of
rapid growth as privatized banks regained their "natural" size. In contrast, with exception
of its first year, Entre Rios, which did not create a residual entity, experienced growth
rates below the contemporaneous system average. Managers of some of the privatized
entities indicated that they retained the name of the provincial bank expressly to attract
deposits and experience the sort of recovery described here. Signs of growing pains
were, however, evident. As the equity and asset base of the new banks increased, their
ROA and ROE figures tended to decline. One could argue that these were initially
abnormally high due to the heavy reliance on service income and their low levels of
assets and equity. Although the time-series in Annex 3, Table9 is too short to yield firm
conclusions, as these banks begin to generate a higher share of income from lending, it is
hoped that their ROA and ROE figures will stabilize.
70.   In most cases, net worth and portfolio quality have not deteriorated substantially
since privatization. The exceptions are again instructive. Entre Rios, which failed to
create a residual, started with a relatively high percentage of bad credits that it has been
unable to reduce. Chaco, which also entered the Fund program through the "back door"
started out with no bad credits, only to see the figure jump to 22% a year later. The
figure grew to 24% in the next year, which suggests that purchasers and the province did
not create an ideal privatized entity. Although the "percent bad" figure later declined, the
1998 failure of its major shareholder, Patricios, and recent reports from the Central Bank
that Chaco is facing potential intervention, suggest that this privatization is different from
the others. Unfortunately, Patricios was the major shareholder in Formnosa also, although
its (Formosa's) performance statistics are not (currently) as dire as those of Chaco.
20 The disparities in reported growth rates for the entire banking system are due to the slightly different periods over
which each of the three cohorts have operated as private banks.



20
71.    One feature that characterized the 'Formosa and Chaco privatizations, and the
Mendoza-Prevision Social transfer, was the relatively low share of capital transferred to
the principal shareholders. In all four cases, moreover, the province remained an
important shareholder. This may have caused serious governance problems that are now
being reflected in performance. Among the remaining cases, however, things are more
encouraging. In those cases where initial levels of bad credit levels were relatively high,
there has been substantial post-privatization decline (Misiones, Rio Negro, and San Luis).
In those cases where the privatized entity started with close to no bad credit, the figure
has increased slightly, but not dramatically, and the ratio of net worth to total liabilities
has typically improved. The slight increase in bad credit likely reflects the difficulties
associated with forging a lending business.
72.    The transition from a typical provincial bank portfolio has followed a predictable
pattern - in most cases, there was a substantial reduction in credit to the financial and
public sectors. The largest growth category has been personal lending. Interviews with
owners of the privatized banks indicate that this lending is less risky than other types,
because as bankers to the province, they assumed many payments systems
responsibilities, including payments to public employees. Payments for many types of
personal loans are automatically deducted from the accounts of the public employees.
Growth in other, less secure, types of lending is much slower. Owners indicated that it
requires time to build up a solid lending clientele among businesses, especially since
many of the new owners have little experience in this area. The long-term sustainability
of the new banks likely depends heavily on the success of the transition, especially if the
fiscal agency contracts are not renewed.
Longer-term Developments: Health of Post-Privatization Provincial Banking Sectors
73.    Relative to the national banking sector, most public provincial banks were sma] l.
In the first quarter of 1995, most accounted for less than 1% of national lending (Anne,
3, TableO), and only Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires accounted for more than
5%.21 However, relative to the provincial banking sectors, they were often very large. In
early 1995, many accounted for over half of provincial lending and nearly all accountei:.
for over one quarter of lending.22 Because one of the major objectives of the loan was to
improve the fiscal health of the province, it may also be important to know how the local
banking sector developed after privatization. Given the strong links between financial
development and economic growth, one might worry about severe financial
disintermediation after privatization leading to lower growth. Lower growth, in tum,
could reduce tax revenues, which would adversely affect provincial finances.
21 Table also provides a quick indication that, while Loan 3878 surpassed its objective in terms of the number of
transactions, it had more trouble with respect to the level of total assets transferred to private hands. The figures for
total loans in that table exclude Chaco and Entre Rios, the two privatizations that were added to the program after
privatization. The remaining privatized banks accounted for 7% of total lending, and 32% of provincial bank lendin,.;
in first quarter, 1995. These figures are slightly below the objective to transfer 10% of total banking assets or 40% cio
provincial banking assets. Chaco and Entre Rios would provide an additional small boost, although those assets had
already been transferred at the time of the loan. More importantly, as noted, Cordoba has recently expressed a renewed
willingness to pursue privatization. Its inclusion would mean that the assets transferred objectives would easily be
surpassed. It is reasonable to conclude that the loan met these principal objectives quite well.
22 Data on bank lending by type of bank is not available at the provincial level before 1995.



21
74.    Post-privatization credit growth is analyzed econometrically in Clarke and Cull
(1 999b). Rather than present those results in detail, we merely summarize them here.23
Although the provincial banks grew very quickly after privatization, making up for the
transfer of assets to the residual entity, this growth appears to have been, at least partially,
at the expense of other private banks. Other private banks, on average, appear to have
grown more slowly after the privatization of the public provincial bank. The slower
growth of private banks other than the privatized bank in provinces where privatization
occurred strongly suggests that the privatized banks are competing with existing private
banks more effectively than the public banks were. This would be consistent with the
hypothesis that their lending is now based on commercial, rather than political, criteria.
75.    In addition, although privatization resulted in a one-time increase in loans by all
private sector banks, the rate of growth of lending by private banks (including the
privatized bank) was similar to the rate of growth before the privatization. Similarly, the
one-time transfer of the poorly performing loans from the public provincial banks to the
residual entity resulted in a reduction in total loans. After this transfer, the total growth
rate (public and private banks) appears, on average, to be about the same before and after
privatization. The results suggest that, despite some initial dislocation at the time of
privatization, the provincial banking sectors rebounded reasonably well. At the least,
severe disintermediation did not occur, and the quality of credit allocation appears to
have improved. To the extent that improved intermediation leads to greater growth, this
should have a beneficial effect on provincial finances.24
Overall Assessment
76.    Loan 3878 is rated satisfactory. It surpassed the 10-15 privatizations spelled out
in its first objective, and it created the residual entities that were a by-product of that
process. In fact, the number of privatizations undertaken is, to our knowledge, larger
than in any other country (at least, that is, in a short period). Achieving an "orderly and
timely resolution of residual assets and liabilities" has, however, proved more difficult
than anticipated. The objective to pursue bank closures in the event of failed
privatizations proved unnecessary to pursue (except, perhaps, in the case of Municipal de
Parana, where the objective was met). There is also evidence to suggest that, by avoiding
the large losses associated with future bank recapitalization, the loan achieved its
objectives to improve the fiscal situation of the provinces. Finally, the loan brought
additional banks under the improved monitoring and supervisory umbrella of BCRA, as
evidenced by BCRA's recent dealings with the private owners of Chaco and Mendoza.
77.    Establishing a causal link between the five specific objectives largely
accomplished under the loan and achievement of the loan's more broad objective,
23 For much fuller description of the empirical methodology and results, see George R.G. Clarke and Robert Cull,
"Provincial Bank Privatization in Argentina: the How, the Why, and the So What," presented at World Bank/Dallas
Federal Reserve Conference on Bank Privatization, March, 1999 (Clarke and Cull (1999b)).
24 These benefits are not, however, immediately apparent if one looks at the current fiscal situations of the provinces.
In many respects, those that privatized look less fiscally sound than those that have not. Recall, however, that the
above analysis suggests that there is a strong selection bias at work here - provinces in the most precarious financial
situations were most likely to privatize. It is little wonder that they continue to have the most fiscal problems. The
fiscal benefits to provinces that privatized are likely to become more apparent over time. This would be an interesting
topic for further research.



22
increased systemic stability, is difficult. The evidence does, however, indicate that the
system is weathering exogenous shocks better than it once did. Attributing some of the
credit for that result to privatizations brought about by the loan would not be
unreasonable. At the very least, the privatized entities have not suffered the rapid deposit
losses suffered by the public provincial banks during the Tequila Crisis.25
Loan 3926: Bank Reform Loan
78.   Given the private sector nature of the project, it was reasonable that the PR for
Loan 3926 did not list specific numerical targets with respect to mergers and acquisitions.
The decision to switch the third tranche conditionality of 3926 over to 3878 does
indicate, however, that participation ebbed after the banking system stabilized beginnir.g
late 1996. This can be interpreted in at least two ways. On the positive side, it could be
taken as a sign that the system experienced a relatively fast post-Tequila recovery, and
that further Fund-supported consolidation was not necessary. On the negative side, it
might be a sign that some of the Fund's lending guidelines were not sufficiently flexible,
and that some opportunities for further consolidation were missed. There is no obvious
way to choose between the two interpretations, although we find it very unlikely that the
guidelines were so rigid as to inhibit a large number of transactions. So, while we
recognize at the outset that better guidelines may have fostered additional (or stronger)
transactions, this section evaluates the loan based on the transactions that were
undertaken.
79.   Evaluating the marginal impact of the loans disbursed by the Fund is difficult
because the transactions that they helped facilitate were part of a larger consolidation
process. For example, loans from the Fund were used to help facilitate the fusion of sih.
smaller banks into a new bank (Argencoop) just after the Tequila Crisis. A year later,
Banco Credicoop accessed the Fund to acquire Banco Coopesur. Then, in 1998,
Credicoop acquired Argencoop, but without tapping the Fund. From an analytical
perspective this presents complications -- the Fund helped create the two institutions that
fed into the Credicoop/Argencoop transaction, but it did not directly assist the final
transaction, the one that created the entity whose performance we can now track
(Credicoop). We have, therefore, identified nineteen consolidation "trees," which are
presented in Annex 2. Each tree narrows to a trunk, the surviving institution after the
process of consolidation was complete (like Credicoop in the example above). Dark
shading indicates a merger or acquisition undertaken with Fund assistance. Light shadi:g;
is for consolidation undertaken without such assistance.
80.   These trees are the unit of analysis in this section. We compare the pre-Tequila
performance (September 1994) of the banks that fed into each of the nineteen
consolidations with that of surviving institutions in September 1998. While the method
does not allow us to isolate well the marginal contribution of each Fund disbursement, i
is the most sensible analytical approach available. The analysis is, therefore, designed tl 
assess the effectiveness of nineteen separate consolidation processes in which Fund
assistance played some role.
25 Additional details on deposit losses suffered by public provincial banks during the Tequila Crisis are provided in
Clarke and Cull (1999a).



23
81.   To summarize the performance of the pre-Tequila performance of the banks that
eventually fed into the consolidations, we sum their individual figures for assets,
liabilities, loans, and deposits. For performance measures (net worth, bad loans, return
on assets (ROA), return on equity (ROE), and share of income from services), we take a
weighted average (based on assets) for the individual banks that would eventually
comprise the surviving bank. The same weighted average approach was applied to
measures of loan portfolio orientation (e.g., share of portfolio devoted to personal
lending). The calculations for each of the nineteen trees appear in Table 2.
82.   Annex 3, Table 11, therefore also presents summary statistics for the nineteen
trees found in Annex 2 and, for benchmarking purposes, statistics for the banking system
as a whole. Two features of the Fund transactions stand out. First, as noted throughout
this document, there was strong selection bias at work - banks with poor performance
tended to seek Fund support. Compared to the system as a whole, banks involved in
Fund transactions had higher shares of bad loans and lower ROE, both in September
1994 and September 1998. ROA was also lower for these banks than for the system in
1998. Second, although their performance lagged system averages slightly, there was
improvement for these banks across multiple dimensions during this period. For
example, ROE went from -0.6% to 2.6%, a 3% improvement. For the system as a whole,
that figure climbed from .8% to 5.1%, a 4.3% improvement. The system outpaced the
Fund-supported banks by a wider margin on ROA gains. By contrast, net worth
(actually, the ratio of net worth to total liabilities) declined less for Fund-supported banks
than for the system. However, after years of severe disintermediation, total assets and
liabilities grew very quickly for banks during this period. A slower decline in net worth
was, therefore, also an indication that Fund-supported banks were growing slower than
the system. Finally, and most alarmingly, the share of non-performing (bad) loans grew
slightly for Fund-supported banks while it declined for the system.
83.   Growth rates in assets, liabilities, deposits, and loans tell a similar story - Fund-
supported banks grew, but not nearly at the rate for the system. Growth rates and
performance measures for the Fund-supported banks are biased downwards by the
privatized banks that accessed the Fund. For example, the Mendoza/Prevision
Social/Repuiblica transaction (Tree 17 in Annex 2), has a strong effect. Both Mendoza
and Prevision Social experienced steep reductions in assets and liabilities during the
privatization process, from which they had not yet recovered in September 1998. The
figures in Table 12, therefore, indicate severe contraction instead of growth for that
consolidation tree. Given the dynamics of the privatization process, the public banks that
accessed funds under loan 3926 should, perhaps, be analyzed separately.
84.   Annex 3, Table 11, therefore, also presents figures for Fund-supported banks that
were not part of the provincial bank privatizations, and for all private banks in the
system. The figures for non-public Fund-supported banks are somewhat better, in some
cases approaching those for the system.26 In third quarter, 1998 non-public Fund-
supported banks reported a weighted average net worth ratio of .16, ROA of .4%, and
ROE of 4.9%. Their nominal loan growth since third quarter, 1994 was 29%.
26 All banks that were part of a consolidation tree with a current or former public bank are excluded from the
calculations for non-public Fund-supported banks in Table 11. More specifically, consolidation trees T6, T8, T12, T13,
T17, and T18 in Annex 2 are excluded from the calculations.



24
Comparable figures the banking system were a net worth ratio of . 11, ROA of .6%, ROE
of5.1%, and nominal loan growth of 34%. Although the non-public Fund-supported
banks did lag the system by a bit more on some other measures, especially their bad loan
ratios, these comparisons suggest that the Fund helped create banks that were able to
survive in a growing, increasingly competitive banking system. A fairer comparison,
however, is between non-public Fund-supported banks and the private banking system.
Those figures indicate that the Fund-supported banks, though improving, continued to lag
substantially behind the rest of the private system.
85.   Assessing the Fund for Bank Capitalization solely on the basis of the figures in
Annex 3, Table 11 and Table 2 would not be appropriate. As noted above, seventy-thr-ee
banks comprise the nineteen consolidation trees listed in Annex 2. That number
represents about one-third of the financial institutions operating in Argentina just prior to
the Tequila Crisis. While, again, Loan 3926 should not receive all of the credit for the re-
structuring that took place, it clearly played a role in transforming the operations of a
large chunk of the banking system.
86.   Although the consolidation from seventy-three to nineteen banks is impressive,
those figures too mask some important differences between the consolidation trees. First,
not all of the trees represent a completed consolidation. One, T7-Liniers, was designed to
be a restructuring rather than a merger or acquisition. Three others (Florencia/Santiago
del Estero, Mendoza/RepuTblica, and Santa Fe/General de Negocios) were designed as
acquisitions or mergers, but were not complete as of January, 1999. Fund staff indicated
that these would eventually be finalized, but the recent problems at Mendoza/Repablica
undercut that assessment. The situation appears no better for Florencia/Santiago del
Estero. The Santa Fe transaction was a relatively new one. Consolidation along the lines
of Macro-Misiones or Rio Negro/Mildesa would appear to be possible in that case. In
short, however, the Fund was designed to facilitate mergers or acquisitions, and that did
not occur in four of the nineteen cases summarized in Annex 2. The 'non-consoiidatiolis'
involved privatized provincial banks, another sign that the transition difficulties for the ir
owners were substantial (see above in connection with Loan 3878).
87.   As should have reasonably been expected, not all of the transactions supported )y
Loan 3926 were successful. Some of the consolidated entities later failed. It should by
noted, however, that in the vast majority of the Fund-supported consolidations, at least
one of the banks involved remains in operation. The exceptions are T1 0 (Mayo), T 11
(Banco Credito Provincial), and T14 (Medefin UNB). BUCI also received support froi-n
the Fund and later failed, but its assets and liabilities were assurned by Corpbanca in a
transaction that was also supported by the Fund. It is difficult to definitively assess
whether this level of failure could have been lower. Given the state of these banks dur: ngr
the Tequila Crisis, the survivorship of the Fund-supported banks should probably be
viewed as impressive. In short, despite the handful of failures and the slow progress at
some of the newly privatized banks, the majority of the Fund's transactions helped cre.:Ite
larger, more viable private competitors.
88.   Further support for the notion that Loan 3926 underwrote basically sound
transactions comes from the Fund's financial statements. After provisioning for iits noni-
performing assets, the Fund remains solvent and, from the perspective of its bondholders.



25
it remains a profitable endeavor. Moreover, given the inherent tension between the
financial integrity of the Fund and the public policy desire to achieve re-structuring and
restore sector stability, some failures were to be expected - there was no doubt but that
the Fund would receive requests for assistance from weak, potentially unsalvageable
banks. In addition, even in the case of the failures, Annex 2 indicates that the Fund-
supported transactions bought some time for a bank failure resolution mechanism that
was severely taxed during the Tequila Crisis. Loan 3926 helped provide a bridge
between the Crisis and a future period when the sector could be further rationalized
through additional consolidation and improved regulation and supervision.
Overall Assessment
89.   Loan 3926 is also rated satisfactory. By touching as many institutions as it did
and facilitating consolidation, the loan made contribution to the restoration of confidence
and stability in the banking sector. Quantifying that contribution is, of course,
impossible. Would confidence have been restored without the loan? Would some of
these mergers and acquisitions have occurred without the loan? Both are fair, but
difficult to answer, questions. The high number of transactions and the rapidity with
which confidence was restored suggest that less consolidation may have occurred and
confidence may have taken longer to restore were it not for the Fund.
90.   The objectives in the PR did also mention that consolidation should involve
matching stronger banks with weaker ones. In some cases, Federal/Bansud, for example,
this did occur. In most others, however, it was very hard to entice prime-rated banks to
acquire troubled ones. Restrictions on the type and size of loans extended by the Fund
likely contributed to this outcome. In the future, it may be best to allow the terms of the
lending instrument to vary with the quality of the borrower, especially when there is a
strong governance structure with an incentive to see that such flexibility does not
undermine the financial integrity of the Fund. Finally, the loan must also have helped
alleviate some of Argentina's balance of payments problems during the Crisis, which was
the last of the objectives listed in the PR.
E. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
91.   Assessing the sustainability requires a broader view. While some banks created
under each loan have experienced difficulties; in the case of Loan 3926, some have
failed; Chaco and Mendoza, banks supported under Loan 3878, have required another
round of restructuring; market solutions were applied to further restructurings.
Moreover, a key common objective of the two Loans was to restore confidence to a
battered banking sector. As noted above, the banking system has weathered the crises
associated with Asia, Russia, and, to this point at least, Brazil. Barring large exogenous
shocks, the systemic results appear to be sustainable. Although one cannot attribute
increased systemic stability solely to these two loans, they clearly played a role. On that
basis, we rate the results sustainable. Brief words about the sustainability of results
particular to each loan follow.



26
Loan 3878: Bank Privatization
92.   As the private provincial banking sector develops, larger banks could acquire rhe
privatized banks. In that sense, while the privatized banks themselves may not be
sustainable as individual institutions, the loan will have played a role in furthering pri-vate
sector stability and development. Another key to watch will be the transition from
wholesale to retail provincial banking on the part of many of the owners. If both Rio
Negro and Macro-Misiones come to assume important regional niches, the direct
beneficial effects of the loan will be visible for a long time to come.
Loan 3926: Bank Reform/Consolidation
93.   Increased competition, especially from foreign banks, and improvements in
regulation and supervision imply that some banks will fail. Because some Fund-
supported banks began with severe problems, it would be surprising if they were not
more susceptible to these new pressures. Provided these failures are not too pervasive,
and that the assets and liabilities of any failed institutions can be transferred to healthier
institutions quickly, the loan's achievements should be viewed as sustainable.
F. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
Timeliness of Response
94.   The overview of banking sector development at the beginning of this report attests
to the timeliness of the World Bank response. The Tequila Crisis presented both great
strains and opportunities to make lasting changes and the Bank was quick to seize these
opportunities. While it would be wrong to assert that none of this consolidation wouldl
have otherwise occurred, the loan clearly helped accelerate these changes. With respect
to loan 3878, Bank staff made the most of the opportunity to rid the system of long
recognized problems. That seventeen banks left the public sector exceeded expectatiolis.
A strong case can be made that most of these privatizations would not have been
undertaken without financial resources from the Fiduciary Fund. In short, the increased
systemic stability chronicled throughout the report owes something to both loans, and
these generally positive outcomes owe something to the timeliness of the Bank's
response to the Tequila Crisis.
Sufficiency of Funds
95.   Loan 3878 funds were sufficient in the sense that they underwrote more
transactions than originally expected. They were also sufficient to retire about two-thir ds
of the provinces' debts to financial intermediaries that had provided liquidity during the
Tequila Crisis. Between the deposits assumed by purchasers of the privatized entities Lnd
liabilities retired with Fund assistance, provinces were able to do away with about sixt,
percent of the short-term liabilities they confronted upon privatization. One minor
drawback was that the level rather than the quality of pre-privatization assets limited



27
Fund assistance. In a case like Mendoza, where asset quality was poor, this may have
implied insufficient Fund assistance.
96.   Loan 3926 funds were sufficient in that they helped underwrite consolidations
that affected seventy-three banks. While their level may have been sufficient, their use
was restricted in ways that may have made them less attractive to prime-rated borrowers.
In particular, the terms of the loan were invariant to the quality of the borrower. This
may help explain why the loan's third tranche was eventually shifted over to loan 3878.
Quality of Program Design
97.   The scale of the transactions and the sustainability of the new banks created
attests to the quality of the program designs for both loans. Bank staff deserve credit for
having taken the risk in employing a combination of adjustment with transaction-type
lending to achieve structural change in banking, schemes that had not typically been
employed in other developing countries.
98.   For loan 3878, one potential concern was that the restrictions imposed upon
buyers by the provinces might have made it difficult for them to do the necessary post-
privatization re-structuring. However, Annex 3, Table3 shows that, on average, public
provincial banks reduced their workforces by about 2.1% between July 1995 and
September 1998, compared to over 35% in privatized provincial banks. Privatized banks
also created loan portfolio less focused on the public sector (Annex 3, Table3). The
evidence suggests that the program design enabled provinces to craft agreements that
were politically feasible, but that did not tie the hands of the new owners too terribly.
99.   For loan 3926, one key to the program's design was the reliance on private
bondholders to monitor the financial integrity of the Fund. Restrictions on the amount
that could be lent to individual banks or on the terms of those loans may have been
unnecessary (or even counter-productive) given that fundamental design feature.
Monitoring/Supervision
100.  Correspondence between Bank and Fund staff indicates that a sound initial
framework for loan 3878 was continually updated and refined as these transactions
progressed. Notable among these refinements was the increased reliance on asset
guarantees to speed sales of the privatized entities, and strong encouragement to decrease
the percentage of shares retained by the province in the privatized entity. Attention to the
details of individual transactions was further illustrated in Bank Staff's reluctance to
include pre-Tequila privatizations in the program (Chaco, Corrientes, and Entre Rios)
unless they met Fund guidelines. Finally, the level of economic and sector work
generated while monitoring the loan attests to Bank staff's level of commitment. A
report on the fiscal effects of the Convertibility Plan, another on residual asset recovery
strategies and a section of a Financial Sector Review each explored different aspects of
provincial bank privatization.
101.  Monitoring and supervision under Loan 3926 took on a different character. A
prior review of individual transactions was considered neither necessary nor desirable as



28
the Fund's Board of Directors had a strong incentive to protect the Fund's finances anti to
select the best transactions from a business perspective. Evidence in support of that
proposition comes from the list of proposed transactions that were rejected by the FunId.
Thirteen banks sought Fund support and were rejected. Fund staff indicated that most
were rejected either because they proposed only re-structuring or because both partners to
a proposed merger were too small or weak to produce a viable entity.27
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
102. Comments regarding the timeliness of the World Bank response apply equally -to
the Argentine government. The level of commitment on the part of Argentine officials
was evident from the outset - both Funds were financed in partnership with the World
Bank (and the Inter-American Development Bank in the case of loan 3878).
103. Borrower ownership of the two programs was never in question. Under loan
3878, Fund employees worked closely with provinces to draft the terms of sale and they
determined the amounts to be disbursed to each province.28 One might have expected ihe
Fund to act as a sort of bailout mechanism and thus produce privatizations that were
easier on provincial politicians. There is, however, some econometric evidence in Clarke
and Cull (1 999a) that most provisions were better, in the view of provincial
policymakers, before the crisis. In particular, there were fewer layoffs permitted and
more assets were transferred to the privatized bank prior to the inception of the Fiduciary
Fund. Fund-supported transactions appear to have permitted purchasers of the privatized
entities a freer hand with respect to future personnel decisions and in selecting their asset
portfolios. This likely left privatized banks on a more solid initial footing than they
might otherwise have enjoyed. It also attests to the care with which Fund staff
scrutinized the details of these transactions  As noted above, with respect to Loan 392(,
generally positive outcomes owe something to the internal incentives of Fund
management that ensured a high level of program ownership.
104.  Loan supervision reports indicate that the borrower met all six tranche release
conditions successfully under both 3878 and 3926. There was, of course, the shift of
conditionality from 3926 to 3878, but that mid-course adjustment appears to have been
warranted given the relative demand for the two types of transactions. A final testimorn a:L
to the Argentine commitment to these loans was the faith placed in high-caliber staff at
the Funds. Both trust funds had relatively simple operating guidelines and lean
management structures. These small staffs were charged with re-shaping Argentina's
banking sector for some time to come. The positive outcomes summarized in this reporit
attest to the fact that these Funds were staffed with high-caliber people who inspired
trust. Moreover, the continuity in personnel on both the Bank and borrower side furthe:
fortified that trust.
7? Credito Cuyo, Coopesur, Olavarria, Federal, Edificadora de Olavarria, and Patricios all requested funds for re-
structuring but were denied. Three proposed mergers (Los Tilos with Comercial de Tandil, Israelita de Cordoba with 
Popular Financiero, and Edificadora de Olavarria with Comercial de Tres Arroyos) were also rejected. Finally, the
acquisition of San Luis by Exprinter was also denied Fund support. Some of these banks did find their way into othc.
Fund-supported transactions.
28 The terms of sale and the disbursements were also subject to World Bank approval.



29
H. LESSONS LEARNED
105.  Among the lessons applicable to both loans are:
Financial/fiscal crises offer opportunities for structural change in banking.
However, structural/ownership change in banking requires resources to re-
structure past losses. These financial resources facilitate acceleration of structural
changes that would otherwise not occur, or occur at a more modest speed.
Even when sufficient financial resources are available, there will be selection bias
in the roster of potential acquirers. Troubled banks tend not to attract prime-rated
buyers. It is unclear whether program design features alone (such as more
incentives) can overcome that bias. Neither loan analyzed here completely
resolved this problem.
 Funds were disbursed only after the careful review of the individual transactions.
The approach may be useful in other countries and contexts.
* Some of the banks created through these transactions may require additional
restructuring as market conditions change. Some failures need to be anticipated.
e A strong borrower commitment is indispensable in such complicated, time-
intensive transactions.
106.  Lessons specific to Loan 3878 (Provincial Bank Privatization) include:
-  Post-privatization credit market development is likely a long-term proposition in
geographically isolated regions like Argentina's provinces. Moreover, given the
selection bias alluded to above, the new private owners can be expected to remain
cautious in adapting to retail credit/banking in these areas.
3 Preparatory work to facilitate the sale/recovery of residual assets (e.g., inventory
of assets and assessment of their quality) should begin as early as possible, earlier
than has occurred in many cases to date. Experience in Argentina and elsewhere
has shown this to be among the most intractable problems associated with
privatization. Early private sector involvement in the recovery process is the most
promising solution.
* Provinces that retain a relatively large ownership stake in their bank decrease the
probability of attracting a high-quality buyer. Sales of 100% of the shares of the
privatized entity should be encouraged.
* Even under difficult market conditions, privatization can proceed.
107.  Two final lessons specific to Loan 3926 (Bank Reformn/Consolidation) is that:
* In an effort to attract high-quality buyers of troubled banks, the Bank might
explore more flexible lending conditions. For example, it may have been better to
allow interest rates to vary with quality of the acquirer in the transactions
supported by Loan 3926.
* Many of these transactions involved weak institutions. Even if the consolidated
entities later fail, these types of lending operations can buy time for an
overworked bank failure resolution mechanism.



30
ANNEX 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Part 1. Loan 3878, Provincial Bank Privatization
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial    Partial  Negligible      Not
Applicable
Macro policies                  x
Sector policies                 x
Financial objectives            x
Institutional development       x
Physical objectives                                                     x
Poverty reduction                                                       x
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                                                x
Public sector management        x
Private sector development                  x
Other (specify)                                                         x
B. Project sustainability     Likely     Unlikely     Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance          Highly    Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                              x
Preparation assistance                      x
Appraisal                       x
Supervision                     x
D. Borrower performance      Highly    Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                 x
Implementation                  x
Covenant compliance                         x
Operation (if applicable)       x
E. Assessment of Outcome     Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Hly
Satisfactory                          Unsatisi xctory
x



31
Part 2. Loan 3926, Bank Reform Loan
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial    Partial  Negligible     Not
Applicable
Macro policies                  x
Sector policies                 x
Financial objectives            x
Institutional development       x
Physical objectives                                                     x
Poverty reduction                                                       x
Gender issues                                                           x
Other social objectives                                                 x
Environmental objectives                                                x
Public sector management                                                x
Private sector development                  x
Other (specify)                                                         x
B. Project sustainability     Likely     Unlikely     Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance          Highly    Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                              x
Preparation assistance                      x
Appraisal                       x
Supervision                                 x
D. Borrower performance      Highly    Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                 x
Implementation                  x
Covenant compliance                         x
Operation (if applicable)                   x
E. Assessment of Outcome     Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Highly
Satisfactory                          Unsatisfactory
x



32
ANNEX 2: SUMMARY OF TRANSACTIONS SUPPORTED BY FIDUCIARY FUND FOR BANK
REFORM/CONSOLIDATION
Institution      Sept 94    March 95    Sept 95    March 96    Sept 96    March 97    Sept 97    March 98    Sept 98
TI
Coopesur              135         113          131         160
Credicoop*            795         711         834         1031                                    1. 90
Argencoop27
Aliancoop              32
Horizante              59
Local                 124
VAF                    29
Nodeowop               74
T2
Monserrat             146          1
Asfqian                32 _.                        0                   64810                   520930  1011
Bica                 256                                   341         353
Sunchales             123           2
T3
Federal              304          270
Bansud*             1102         1057                                 3023        3351         4063        3804         34,28
Shavw                 723         665
T4
RioNero     *         40 37 1     4 3 2 100 38403
Asfin                  32
Vomnx        e         r        c        i        a       5460                     498          520         560          565
Fuerte                341         27          22
TS
Bisc1* 810                                                             918         935         1072         1179        1312
C Pellegrini          142
Coinag               251
N Levalle             I11
Comunidad              19
Arroyos              215
Independ.            233
San Jose               15
Meridional             37
T6
Rio Negro*           345          381         300         loop         138aI     II      " "                400          3113
Mildesa              301          145          132         212         242
T7
Liniers*             285          154          110         122         122          142         185          191         1;4
T8
La Pampa*             57986                                            94          1031412023
Dorrego               155                                   694                   101          14120                     23
T9
Corpbanca*32                                                                                                             4 
BUCI   414                                  1~~    ~~~~~~35  564
Commnercial            59
Vallemar               41
T10
Provencor             124
D.Rocha                 5
Caudal                 65
Noar                  131
Mayo*                419                                  1I~         1199         1159        15            30         151~ 
Olavarfia             145         13            0



33
B Aires              12           S-
Patricios           232 .      320         384        449         472         523        550
Nueva Era        - 04
Tll
CredProv            292        264                                           632         641
Junin                73          59
Tandil              152         121         9
Baires               69          45         30          21
T12
Macro*              557         190        185        254         293         387        S.                      552
Misiones            504         523        349        1oop        120         151
T13
Florencia*          173          81         63          57         59          64         64          47          46
SEstero*             89          76        176         184       246P        248         263         256        248
T14
Medefin             813        274                                            690        556         359
UNB SA              567        452
TI15
Nvo Azul*            45          37         33          30         29                                134         ill
Industrial           52          46         38          49         55 
T16
Transandino4         31          41         47          63         82         139        144
Cred. Cuyo          107          93         91         106        114          89         98
T17
Prev Social         602         629        586         531        545        374P        469         36S
Mendoza*           1058        1106       1024        1142       353P         465        560         440        697
RepOblica*          898        691         688         715        874        1118        911         600         560
TI8
Santa Fe*           901         846        709        727         751         n.a.       931         931        795P
Negocios*           463        431         667         874        764         718        874        1148         880
T19
Cuenca LP            10          1
Noroeste            220:
Caseros             339                                          '282
Cred Arg           2141       283         247        2700        2806       3518
Frane6s            2553       2395        2653       2929        3638        3910                              9515
Received                          No Funds
Funds                             from FF
from FF                           for Bank
for Bank                          Reform/
Reform/                           Consol.
Consol.



34
ANNEX 3. TABLES
Table 1: World Bank Involvement in Argentine Financial Sector, 1985-1998
Lending
Loan Number
Description                                                 Year        Type    Amount
35580               Financial Sector Adjustment Loan                             1993       SAL       400
37090               Capital Market Development Project                           1994       FIL       500
37100               Capital Market Technical Assistance Project                  1994       TAL       8.5
3926                Bank Reform Loan                                             1996       SAD       500
3878                Provincial Bank Privatization Loan                           1996       SAD       500
Economic and
Sector Work
Report No.
Description                                                 Type        Date
6418                Banking Sector: The Need for Reform                          SR         12/1/86
7176                Securities Markets and Main Non-Bank Financial              SR          3/1/88
Institutions
11673              Financial Sector Review                                      SR          11/1/89
12963              Capital Market Study                                         SR          12/21/94
Nicolas Mathieu, Financial Sector Reform: A Review of World Bank Assistance, The World Bank, Operations
Evaluation Department 1998, Washington, DC.
Table 2: Characteristics of Purchasers of Privatized Entities
Privatization       Principal     Principal   Total     Price    Characteristics of Principal Buyer on Date of
Buyer         Buyer      Capital   Paid      Purchase*
Capital    All       (mill.    Assets       Liabilities   Return    Return o.i
Share      Private   pesos)                 (million     on         Equity
(%)        Owners              (million     pesos)       Assets
(%)                 pesos)
Chaco (94)          Patricios     34.5%      69.8%      6.3      200.9        175.8        0.3%       2.5%
Entre Rios (94)     Institucional   54.5%    82.0%      15.1     131.7        114.7        0.5%       4.1%
Formosa (95)        Patricios     48.0%      70.0%      9.3      383.9        332.2        0.0%       0.1%
Misiones (95)       Macro         92.5%       100.0%    9.1      310.0        249.5        -0.4%      -1.3%
Rio Negro (96)      Mildesa       85.0%      85.0%      10.2     145.2        103.4        0.2%       0.9%
Salta (96)          Macro         88.0%      98.0%      7.9      254.0        193.7        0.4%       1.6%
Tucuman (96)        Comafi        75.0%      80.0%      10.3     281.7        247.9        0.2%       1.7%
San Luis (96)       Exprinter     100.0%     100.0%     12.4     398.0        368.4        -0.3%      -4.5%
Sant. Estero (96)   Florencia     71,3%      100.0%    6.7       551.6        464.2        -1.6%      -9.8%
San Juan (96)      Piano          18.8%      79.5%      11.5     134.2        113.7        0.3%       1.9%
Mendoza (96)        Repuiblica    97.1%      50.4%      20.1     1163.6       1019.0       1.4%       11.4%
Prev. Social (96)   Republica     97.1%      50.4%      8.2      1163.6       1019.0       1.4%       11.4%
Mun Tucuman (97)   Comafi         100.0%      100.0%    6.0      220.9        182.5        -0.2%      -1.6%
Jujuy (98)          Macro         90.0%       100.0%    12.3     504.9        432.9        2.0%       12.2%
Santa Fe (98)       Gn Negocio   90.0%        100.0%    57.2     644.5        533.1        0.9%       9.9%
Santa Cruz (98)     San Juan      51.0%      56.0%      10.5     319.6        298.6        2.1%       55.2%
Banking Sector:
1994                                                             78132.5      65745.2      -
1995                                                             93560.0      79447.8     -0.0%       -0.2%
1996                                                             108342.0    93086.9       0.6%       4.4%
1997                                                             131935.7    115895.6    0.7%         5.9%
1998**                                                           157618.3    140978.8    0.7%         6.1%
* Figures are for last complete quarter before purchase of the provincial bank. Source: BCRA



35
Table 3: Terms of the Provincial Bank Privatizations
Province                Object of      Branching        Employees       Duration of      Portfolio
(Bank)                    Sale                                           Banking        Guarantees
Fiscal agency
contracts
Chaco                 60% Class A   Maintain service   Keep at least 715  20 years        None
(6/94)                   shares                          workers
Entre Rios (12/94)    60% Class A       Maintain       Up to 700 (of      7 years      Up to US$26
shares     service, closures  1500) early                       million
require approval    voluntary                      maximum
retirement
Formosa               60% Class A   Maintain service                      10 years     35% recovered
(9/95)                   shares                                                        residual assets
Misiones              100% Class A                    No dismissals in    5 years      Up to US$16
(12/95)                  shares                       first six months;                   million
<30% of                        maximum
workforce after
Rio Negro*             Determined                                        10 years     Up to 80% of
(2/96)                 by bidders                                                       portfolio or
US$50 million
Salta                 75% Class A   Maintain similar                      10 years        None
(3/96)                   shares      geog. Coverage
Tucuman                75% Class A   Maintain service    Workforce <=     10 years     Up to US$32
(3/96)                   shares                        200 at transfer                    million
San Luis               100% Class   Maintain service                     10 years      US$16 million
(5/96)                 A,B shares                                                       deposit from
province, up to 5
years
Santiago  del Estero  95% Class A,  Maintain service   Job re-training    10 years        None
(7/96)                  B shares                     program, >= I yr.
San Juan              75% Class A   Maintain similar                     10 years         None
(7/96)                   shares      geog. Coverage
Mendoza               90% Class A     Maintain all    Keep at least 600   5 years     Can substitute p-
(7/96)                   shares         branches         workers                      tized assets for
residual assets,
up to US$20
million
Mendoza               90% Class A      Maintain all    Keep at least 500  5 years     Can substitute p-
(Prev. Social)           shares         branches         workers                      tized assets for
(7/96)                                                                                 residual assets,
up to US$10
million
Municipal de Tucumnan   100% Class   Maintain service   Keep at least 70  10 years     Can shift some
(10/97)                A,B shares                         workers                       assets to the
residual
Jujuy**                  80% of        Maintain all    Keep at least 170  10 years    Fund created w/
(1/98)                   capital        branches          workers                     35% recovered
residual assets
Santa Fe               90% of class   Maintain service    Keep at least   5 years      Up to US$43
(5/98)                  A shares      in all branches  1500 workers                       million
or through paid                                  guaranteed by a
representatives                                      bond
Santa Cruz            Not available    Not available   Not available    Not available    Not available
(6198)
Source: Fiduciary Fund para el Desarollo Provincial
*Rio Negro - Portfolio guarantees and flexibility with respect to the object of sale were modifications to original
pliego. Pliegos were initial announcements by the provinces of the proposed terms of sale. ** Jujuy - The original
pliego was altered to allow for a higher share of capital to be transferred to the new owner, less stringent restrictions
regarding firing, and slightly more generous guarantees.



36
Table 4: Sizes of Privatized and Residual Entities
Bank              Privatized Entity      Residual Entity      % Transferred to         Residual
Private Owner
Assets   Liabilities    Assets   Liabilities   Assets   Liabilities    Asset    As % of
(million    (million    (million   (million                      recovery    Assets
pesos)    pesos)      pesos)    pesos)                            (mil)
Chaco            42.9       34.5       245.3      233.1      15%        13%          0*        0%
Entre Rios       425.5      414.5       0.0        0.0       100%       100%         --         --
Formosa          26.5        11.5      135.7      244.9      16%        4%          5.2*       4%
Misiones         67.2       57.8       133.9      340.8      33%        14%         6.1        5%
Rio Negro        59.4       47.4       379.2      402.6      14%        11%         6.0        2%
Salta            42.9       41.0        70.0      68.4       38%        37%        17.6*       25%
Tucuman          66.9       56.9       261.7      262.9      20%        18%         5.3        2%
San Luis         38.6       38.6       29.7       81.8       56%        32%         1.7        6%
Sant. Estero     43.8       43.5       199.6      227.3      18%        16%         7.5        4%
San Juan         173.9      158.9       78.6      175.3      69%        48%         2.3        3%
Mendoza'         335.1      326.9      666.6      666.6      33%        33%         14.3       1%
Prev. Social     62.9       41.0       292.1      292.1      18%        12%          --         --
Mun. Tucuman    38.2        32.2        38.1       25.7      50%        56%         n.a.       n.a.
Jujuy            35.7       33.7       206.9      218.7      15%        13%         n.a.       n.a.
Santa Fe           --        --         --         --         --         --
Santa Cruz       157.9      142.9      37.7       126.9      81%        53%         n.a.       n.a.
Source: Fiduciary Fund.
* Province also refinanced some (less than ten percent) of residual assets. Refinancings are not included in the
recovery figures presented here.



37
Table 5: Creating Privatized and Residual Entities, Consolidated Balance Sheet for
all Privatizations
Privatized Entity         Residual Entity           %  Transferred to
Item                           (OOos of Pesos)          (OOOs of Pesos)        Privatized Entity
Liquid Assets                     221,241                   18,353                     920/o
Public Bonds                      191,301                  274,398                     41%
(Quoted)                                                                             (76%)
(Not Quoted)                                                                         (17%)
Loans (net of Provisions)         751,548                  1,864,093                   29%
(Private Sector)                                                                     (15%)
(Public Sector)                                                                     (27%)
(Financial Sector)                                                                   (3%)
(Interest Accrued)                                                                   (24%)
(Provisions)                                                                         (15%)
Credits from Fin. Intermed.       29,175                      0                       100%
Other Credits                     23,918                      0                       100%
Fixed Assets                      69,599                   159,718                     30%
OtherAssets                      271,266                   458,517                     37%
Total Assets                    1,617,410                 2,775,079                   37%
Deposits                         1,052,616                 974,121                     52%
(Private Sector)                                                                     (91%)
(Public Sector)                                                                      (23%)
(Financial Sector)                                                                   (99%6)
Oblig. From Fin. Intermed.        328,465                  1,851,804                   15%
(BCRA)                                                                               (6%/)
(Banco de la Naci6n)                                                                  (00%)
(Accrued Interest)                                                                   (15%)
Other Liabilities                 42,272                   420,760                     9%
Provisions                        10,576                    120,391                    8%
Total Liabilities               1,481,291                 3,367,076                   31%
Source: Fiduciary Fund. Figures exclude the Santa Fe privatization (not yet available).



38
Table 6: Liabilities Retired with Fiduciary Fund Loans
Total                       Type of Liability Retired with Loan Proceeds
Privatization   Disbursement    Debts to BCRA   Debts to BNA               Compensation        Other Debts
from Fiduciary       (millions)         ( io             to Personnel        (millions)
Fu nd                                   (milglons)        (millions)
(millions)
Chaco             78.0               78.0              0.0                0.0                0.0
Entre Rfos        78.0               45.3              0.0                9.9                22.8
Fornosa           80.0               32.2              377                0.0                10.1
Misiones          78.0               20.2              47.6               0.0                10.2
Rio Negro         80.0               32.2              11.5               3.9                26.7
Salta             50.0               16.7              9.5                9.2                14.7
Tucuman           80.0               53.6              18.1               7.7                0.7
San Luis          50.0               21.0              0.0                7.4               21.7
Sant. Estero      48.0               4.7               0.0                1.3               42.1
San Juan          78.0               43.7              34.3               0.0               0.0
Mendozaa          160.0              89.7              70.3               0.0               0.0
Prev. Social      100.0              79.3              20.7               0.0                0.0
Mun. Tucumin      25.0               0.8               8.1                3.4                12.8
Jujuy             50.0               21.7              7.1                19.2               2.0
Santa Fe          160.0              19.8              0.0                16.1               124.1
Santa Cruz        80.0               0.0               0.0                0.0                80.0
Mun. Parana       20.0               15.9              0.8                2.6                0.8
(Privatizations Not  15.0            0.0               0.0                0.0                15.0
Final ized)a   _I__                                                ___
Total            l  10.00            574.8             265.7              80.7               389.3
% of Total        _                  44%               20%                6%                 30%
a IFunds were disbursed to Catamarca prior to the completion of its privatization.
b Includes funds from the third tranche of Loan 3926 that were switched over to Loan 3878.
Table 7: Total Disbursements and Losses of Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization
Bank (Transaction)                         Disbursed: Active Loans                    Losses: Loans to
Collateralized Loans       Non-collateralized       Failed Institutions
Subordinated Loans
(US$ nillion)             (USS nmillon)
Credicoop (Ti)                                                     55
Suquia (T2)                              30                        30
[Bica] (T2)                              12                         12
Bansud (T3)                                                        60
Velox (T4)                               10.5                      10.5
Bisel (T5)                              29.8                        30
Rio Negro (T6)                                                      10
Liniers (T7)                              6                         12
La Pampa (T8)                           37.5                       27.5
Corpbanca (T9)                                                      30
[BUCI] (T9)                              4.4                        10                      11.3
[Mayo] (T10)                            46.3                       30                        33
[Credito Prov] (Tl l)                   21.8                        16                      16.5
Macro (T12)                              10                        25
Florencia (T13)                          7.5
[MedefintlNB] (T14)                      10                         10                       10
Nuevo Azul (T15)                                                    5
Transandino (T16)                                                   4
Republica (T17)                          30                         a
Santa Fe (TI 8)                                                    30
Frances (T 19)                           4.7                        60
[Caseros] (T19)                          40
Total                                   300.5                     467.0                     70.8
Source: Fiduciary Fund for Bank Reform/Consolidation, Estados de Situacion Patrimonial, December 31, 1998 (some minor
adjustments made based on conversations with Fiduciary Fund staff). [ I indicates bank eventually failed.
a Republica was also promised US$40 million in subordinated loans that had not been disbursed as of January, 1999.



39
Table 8: Acquisition/Purchaser Comparisons, First Quarter, 1995
Bank        Basic Balance Sheet       Performance           Portfolio Orientation
(millions pesos)
P'tized    Ass  Liab  L'ns  Dep   Net   %    Inc    %        %      %     %      %
(Buyer)                            Wth  Bad  serv  pers  pren   pub   mort  fin
Ins  as %   onal  das  sect  gage  cred
total
Chaco     87    76    35    33   13.8  0.0  49.7  4.1   3.0   4.4   3.6   32.8
Patricio   320   276   236   164   16.0  11.6  50.6  26.6  6.2   0.0   12.0  12.6
Ent Rio   314   303   391   143   3.6  58.9  30.7   3.9   1.9  27.0  2.3   13.4
Institut   123   105   101   78   16.7  9.8  23.2  18.4  18.9  0.0   11.5   1.9
Frmosa   346   287   222   134   20.4  42.7  47.5   8.3   0.0  13.4  0.0   15.0
Patricio   276   276   236   164   16.0  11.6  50.6  26.6  6.2   0.0  12.0  12.6
Msiones  523   495   323   152   5.7  13.7  17.9  6.4   4.6  39.2  3.2   17.4
Macro    190   130   131   31   46.4  13.4  4.4   1.7  38.8   0.0   5.4   22.7
RioNeg   381   341   374   118   11.8  60.4  21.4   2.4   5.4   8.7   3.7   11.6
Mildesa   145   104   74    50   39.3  1.1   7.6   0.0   1.5   6.4   0.1   17.8
Salta     141   114   448    42   23.4  91.8  7.4   2.0   2.0   5.2   0.0   31.6
Macro    190   130   131   31   46.4  13.4  4.4   1.7  38.8  0.0   5.4   22.7
Tucman   444   331   196   140   34.2  53.1  16.8  3.8   3.5   7.4   11.2  45.4
Comafi   248   212    36    32   16.7  11.9  4.9   0.0   0.0   9.9   6.9   69.9
Sn Luis   102   93    71    82    9.3  22.0  19.9  6.2   0.3   1.6   0.3   2.7
Exprint.  186   156   37    46   19.1  19.9  2.6   0.3   0.0   0.0  75.0  53.3
St Estro   77    76    269    54    1.0  94.1  43.8   1.0   0.0   3.8   0.0   3.2
Florenc.   81    67    66    22   21.7  12.3  16.3  2.0  13.9  0.1   6.5   6.2
Sn Juan   335   366   291   246  -8.4  29.9  25.2  12.0  13.7  5.2   13.1  11.2
Piano     113   95    60    53   19.3  8.0  21.7   0.1   0.0  10.2  13.5  16.3
Mendoz  1106   952   997   471   16.2  58.0  11.9  9.1   1.1  12.2  0.1   12.8
Republ.  691   592   255   49   16.7  5.1   2.9   0.0   0.1   9.7   6.5   39.3
Prv Soc   629   555   519   302   13.3  28.3  19.7  25.4  0.5   9.4   13.4  10.6
Republ.  691   592   255    49   16.7  5.1   2.9   0.0   0.1   9.7   6.5   39.3
Mn Tuc   59    39    58    26   51.9  30.2  28.9   5.5   8.2  54.2  6.4   0.5
Comafi   248   212    36    32   16.7  11.9  4.9   0.0   0.0   9.9   6.9   69.9
Jujuy     145   126   128   95   14.9  53.0  29.5   7.9   0.8  11.8  0.7   2.9
Macro    190   129   131   31   46.4  13.4  4.4   1.7  38.8  0.0   5.4   22.7
Snta Fe   846   688   688   614   23.0  56.0  31.0  6.3   1.5   0,1   0.2   0.6
GenNeg   431   395   186   150   9.1   9.7  23.6   0.5   0.0   0.0   18.6  33.7
St Cruz   335   327   233   227   11.9  54.9  23.4  13.9  16.1   8.8   17.5   3.6
Sn Juan   366   366   291   246   -8.4  29.9  25.2  12.0  13.7  5.2   13.1  11.2
Avg
PrvBnk   367   323   328   180   15.4  46.7  26.5   7.4   3.9  13.3  4.7   13.5
Buyer    281   240   141    77   22.2  11.8  15.6   5.7  11.1  3.8   12.8  28.3



40
Table 9: Post Privatization Performance
Bank           Basic Balance Sheet                   Performance                       Portfotio Orientation
____(millions pesos)____    ___
P'tized    Ass   Liab   L'ns   Dep    Net    %           Roa    Roe    %         %      %       %       %    -__
(Buyer)                                  Wth    Bad,                    inc   pers   pren    pub    Mort   fin
Ins                   serv   onal   das    sect   gage   cred
Chacol    87       76      3 5    33      13.7    0.0    1.1     8.9    49.7   4.1    0.3    0.4    0.4    32.8
Chaco2    140    160    53        85    -12.4   22.1   0.4       --    38.5   7.3    0.3    0.4    0.2    34.4
Chaco3    196    181    80        129    8.6    24.0   0.7       8.2    45.5   8.0    0.1    0.8    0.1    19.6
Chaco4    298    278    156    211    7.2    7.0    0.3          3.8    32.5   8.7    4.6    4.7    0.3    19.3
EntRiol   520    482    432    288    7.8    32.8   0.5          6.3    20.5   14.1    9.1    22.1t   6.2    6.5
EntR.io2   656    610    450    500    7.5    26.4   0.4         5.5    25.5   10.1    8.7    22.8   10.4    3.3-
EntRio3   744    687    500    583    8.2    23.3   0.3          4.6    27.3   12.9    7.3    20.0    9.8    8.0
EntRio4   750    691    406    567    8.4    27.9   0.2          2.7    31.8   14.8   8.5    16.4   12.4    8.1
Cohortl    32      3 6     32     60
Frmosl    100    126       1 7    98    -20.8   0.0   -2.7    --    16.9   15.1          0      0.0    0.0    25.5
Frmos2    141    124    7 1       99      13.9    2.5    0.5    3.8    9.1   18.8        0      0.2    0.0    18.2
Frmos3    133    113    49        77      17.8    6.9    0.5    3.5    46.0   45.6    3.0    0.0    9.1    26.3
Misionl   125    112    65         8 1    11.8   170    1.7    16.6   58.8   15.1    1.7    53.5    2.9    19.5
Mision2    170    151    112    126    12.3   71.2   1.4    13.0   53.9   19.9    0.9    18.7    2.4    10.2
Mision3   *580   *507   *442   *359   14.5   34.7   0.6          4.9    26.5   8.1    21.9    5.3    2.0       6.0
RioNgl    159    147    83        7 1     8.2    27.4   0.0    -0. 1    51.3   0.8    2.7    9.1    12.1   21.7
RioNg2   *366   *321   *234   *205   14.1    8.9    0.0    -0.3   42.0    1.0    0.0    4.9    0.0    15.1
RioNg3   *422   *373   *266   *244    13.0    4.5    0.3    2.2    37.7   2.1    0.1    7.1    5.5    15.1
Saltal     140    132    49       85      6.0    0.1    1.0    17.8   71.1   4.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    28.1I
Salta2     277    261    189    215    6.3    0.1    1.5    25.4   40.3   5.7    0.9    0.1    0.4    10.8
Salta3     328    304    213    253    8.1    0.5    0.6    7.4    46.1   9.3    0.8    0.2    1.1    10.8
%chng
Cohort2    3 8     28     131    4 1
Tucmnl    120    108    54        80      11.3    0.6    1.2    11.8   60.5   0.1    0.0    60.0    0.0    2C.5
Tucmn2    154    139    90        112    107    0.6    1.3    13.3   50.2   11.4    0.0    33.5    0.0    15.0
SnLuisl    72      125    90      97    -42.0   71.6   -0.3    --    42.7   4.6    0.1    20.1    0.4    3.3
SnLuis2    102    96       59     75      5.8    46.2   -0. 1    -2.5   41.8   23.1    0.0    0.0    0.        23.4
SntEstl    272    263      3 9    107    3.4    2.7    0.5    16.7   47.8   2.7    0.0    61.9    0.0    51.7
SntEst2    236    225    59       127    4.9    8.5    0.0    -0. 1    47.4   16.8    0.0    37.9    0.0    32.2
Mendzl   465    429    36    322    8.4    23.6   -1.4   -17.5   53.8   14.3    0.4    1.2    5.1   .12. 1
Mendz2   440    422    34    337    4.1    27.0   -1.0   -24.2   40.8   21.1    0.0    0.8    0.0    31.6
Pr-vSocl    374    334    50    233    11.7   21.7   -0.4   -4.1   32.4   18.7    0.2    2.9    18.1   :!2.6
PrvSoc2   368    318    47    244    15.7   22.5   -0.3   -2.4   25.6   18.6    0.1    0.9    0.0              :2.
SnJuanl   231    215    48        152    7.5    1.9    0.1       2.0    42.3   13.7   10.8    7.8    9.0  ~1.4
SnJuan2   296    274    40        195    7.8    3.6    0.5    6.6    34.9   39.7    7.6    17.6   10.5   11.4
%chng
Cohort3   13   12   19    112 ______
* Acquirer merged with privatized entity. Figures are for the merged bank. -These observations are excluded from the repoited  -
growth rates in assets, liabilities, loans, and deposits. The numbers that appear after the namne of the province indicate the nulmber of'
years under private ownership. For examnple, 'Chacol' list data foT the Bank of Chaco in its first year under private owners.



41
Table 10: Loans by public provincial banks*
% of Loans in        % of Loans in
Province              Nation
Formosa"*                                                    69.65%                0.47%
LEaPaJmp'a                                                   66.66%                 05%
Santiago de] Estero"*                                       65.08%/                0,46%
S~antaiC-r u"z,**                                             60----               0.30%
Tierra de Fuego                                                                   02.fK6-6%
Misiones'*5.70o06
San  uan**                                                  49.89%                0.45%
Salta**                                                      48.29                  .1
Ju'j U y       ...  .. ...45.67%                                                   0.19%
Cordoa       .                                            45.44%                 347%
marca    ~   -44.37%0.3
Rio Negro"*                                                 44. 130.7
Nquen                                                     298%                   0.32%
Cubut                                                      23.37%                 0.17%
Tu c u m-an'*'*                                             18.40%.                0.28% ... . ..
Biue"nos Aires (including federal capital district)          14.64%                974
.Source: Cetr.Ba..Agntn
* Data is for first quarter of 1995. ** Privatized by the end of 1998.
Table 11: Summary of Performance, Banks Involved with Fiduciary Fund for Bank
Recapitalization
Group             Date     Assets    Liabilities    Loans      Deois          Net        % Bad        ROA          ROE
Worth       Loans        ON)          (%
Total FF          9/94       20519        17954       14329        12043       0.155         13.5         0.19        -0.62
Transactions      9/98       26317        23640       15378        14841       0.116         15.8         0.23        2.64
Total FE (w/o     9/94       14628        12584       10293         9146        0.178         9.3         0.27         1.62
Public banks)     9/98       22147        20051       13277        12594        0.160        24.9         0.41        4.85
System            9/94       86243        72601       56759        47669       0.188         12.8         0.12        0.81
9/98     160146       143583       75839        78459        0.115          9.1        0.56         5.07
Private           9/94       49860        43073       33473        29107        0.158          6.7          --           -
9/98     112771       103503       50093        51218        0.090          5.6        0.38         4.39
Total FF                      28.26       31.67         7.32       23.23       -25.67        2.33         0.04         3.26
FF (w/o                       51.40       59.34        28.99       37.70       -10.25       15.56         0.15         3.23
Public banks)
Svstem                        85.69       97.77        33.62       64.59       -38.61       -3.70         0.44         4.26
Private                      126.18      140.30        49.65       75.96       -43.17        -1.13          --           -
11FE - Fiduciary Fund for Bank Reformi/Capitalization



42
Table 12: Pre and Post-Transaction Information, FF for Bank Reform/Consolid.
Institution      Basic Balance Sheet                Performance                    Portfolio Orientation
(millions pesos)
Ass   Liab   L'ns   Dep   Net    %       Roa   Roe    %         %      %      %      %      %
Wth   Bad                   inc   pers   pren   pub   mort  fin
Ins                 serv   onal   das   sect  gage   cred
TI - 9/94
Coopesur       135    118    105    114  .138   13.2  0.25   2.03   33.5   37.6    0.4    0.0    0.0    8.0
Credicoop*     795    674    574    629   .179    5.6   0.67   4.42   39.2   13.7   2.6    0.0    6.7    7.0
Argencoop       --    --    --        -. --                -      --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Aliancoop       32     26    23      25   .210    8.3  -0.28  -1.59   35.2   28.0    1.5   0.1    0.0    1.4
CES             36    28      26    26   .297   16.7   0.59   2.57   25.7    9.9   17.9    0.0    7.0    5.7
Horizante       59    48      44     46   .214   16.7  -0.37  -2.11   27.1   18.2    0.7    0.1    0.0    4.5
Local          124    111    95    100   .123   21.3  -1.02  -9.29   42.0   29.5    6.4    0.0   13.0    54
VAF             29    25      22    23   .162   15.1  -0.57  -4.07   27.4   9.1   16.4    0.0   12.6    0.0
Nordecoop       74    62      60    60   .197    9.8   0.08   0.52   29.8   30.2    5.0    0.0    7.3    9.4
Wt avg 9J94    1284   1092   949   1023   .176    9.3   0.33   1.93   37.0   19.0   3.5    0.0    6.3    6.6
Result 9/98   1930   1714   1239  1341   .126   14.5   0.28   2.50   37.8   10.5   2.9    0.1    8.9    4.8
T2 - 9/94
Monserrat      146   123    111    111   .186   18.6   0.19   1.19   25.1    8.4   15.6   0.3   13.2    2.0
Suquia*        810    714    604    598   .135    5.0  0.53   4.49   22.7   13.9   11.0    0.0   10.0    7.2
Bica           256   223    212   201   .150    5.9  0.57   4.35   25.9   20.3   12.1    0.0   13.9   5.1
Sunchales      123    106    94    101   .159   15.3   0.74   5.39   34.1   19.0   3.6    0.4    2.4    6.3
Wtavg9/94    1335   1166   1021   1011   .146    7.6   0.52   4.19   24.6   15.0   11.0   0.1   10.4    6.2
Result 9/98   1700   1541   1109   1211   .103   10.8  0.28   2.98   28.9   13.1   17.0   0.1   10.2   15.7
T3 - 9/94
Federal        304   268    241    229   .133   10.0  0.59   4.99   46.7   10.4   4.5    0.0    2.7   12.5
Bansud*       1102   978    858   472   .127    6.4   0.55   4.90   23.8   14.9   9.2    0.0    5.4   ,).3
Shaw           723    634    624    367   .141   12.4  -0.91  -7.33   26.6    8.6   7.9    0.0    2.3    9.8
Wt avg 9/94    2129   1880   1723   1068   .133    9.0   0.06   0.76   28.0   12.1    8.1    0.0    4.0   :i.3
Result9/98    3428  3093   2630   1479   .108   19.7  0.33   3.41   20.2    4.7    9.7   13.8    8.0   1.2
T4 - 9/94
Luro            37     32    21      26   .126   17.2  -0.31  -27.6  25.0   26.8    3.0    0.0    9.2    1.1
Asfin           32    28      22    23   .157   12.8  0.87   6.38   19.3    3.4    0.0    0.0    0.4    I1
Velox*         416    379    279    189   .097   10.5   0.22   2.52   10.7    5.2    5.9    0.0    3.8   .1.4
Fuerte          34    30      26     27   .119   30.1  -2.06  -19.4  29.5   52.2    0.0    0.0    2.8    1.0
Wt avg 9/94    519   469    348   265   .104   12.4  0.07  -0.83   13.5   9.7    4.9    0.0    3.9    : 3
Result 9/98    565   468    396    250   .209   19.5  0.02   0.14    9.8   20.5    5.8    2.7    7.3   13 9
T5 - 9/94
Bisel*          --     --     --     --     --      --            --     --     --     --     --     --
CPellegrini    142   121    100   111   .172    5.2   0.59   4.04   17.1   16.9   11.5    0.0    3.9    7.2
Coinag         251    210    199    186   .193    9.7   0.72   4.43   23.8   11.7   19.3    0.0    7.6    '. 0
N Levalle       11      8      6      7   .474    4.4   0.65   2.02   11.8   9.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Comunidad       19    13    13    13  .422   12.5  -0.35  -1.18   19.2  25.8    0.4    0.0    0.7    0 0
Arroyos        215    182    159    156   .183    9.1   0.44   2.85   32.6   12.4    5.2    0.0    5.2    0 1
Independ.      233    194    168    176   .198    9.2   0.13   0.81   24.8   11.1   10.3    0.0   14.7   11 1
San Jose        15    11    11    10  .403    2.1   0.41   1.44   18.2  26.2    5.5    0.0    1.5    0.1
Meridional      37    31      30     28   .208   14.5  -1.95  -11.3   19.1   29.2   9.3    0.0   31.6   10..
Nucleo           6      4      5      4   .484   21.4   1.71   5.24   16.9  25.8    6.7    0.0   11.7   00
Wt avg 9/94    929    774    691    691   .203    8.9  0.36   2.28   24.5   13.8   11.3    0.0    8.9    4.
Result9/98    1312   1135    874    842   .156   19.1   0.30   2.22   23.6    6.5   14.9    0.0    7.5   11.:
T6 - 9/94
Rio Negro*     345    328    333    183   .052   49.4  -1.36  -27.5   37.4   3.7    2.5    8.9    2.6    6.t
Mildesa        301    264    140    108   .142    0.4   0.30   2.44   27.5    0.0   2.3    7.4    0.1   27.i
Wt avg 9/94    646    592   473   291   .094   26.6  -0.59  -13.6   32.8    2.0    2.4    8.2    1.4   15.8
Result 9/98    393    344   260    230   .142    4.2   0.16   1.32   33.5    2.3    0.2    6.7    6.2   17.4



43
T7 - 9/94
Liniers*       285   263    196   173  .086    4.5   0.48   6.10   32.3   19.3   34.7    0.0    1.0   7.3
Result9/98     184   163    113    126  .133   32.1   0.13   1.12   45.1    5.9  49.5    0.0    2.6   14.9
T8 - 9/94
La Pampa*      579    504   507   448   .149   21.2  -0.03  -2.31   22.9   10.7   10.4   0.0   10.7   17.0
Dorrego        155   148    116   138  .045   21.9  -0.20  4.63   27.4   6.9    3.4    0.0   3.3    5.8
Wt avg 9/94    734   652    623    586   .127   21.4  -0.07  -2.80   23.9    9.9    8.9    0.0    9.1   14.6
Result 9198    1213   1112   645    876  .091   26.5  -0.10  -1.15   20.5   10.2   10.7    0.0  24.8   17.3
T9 - 9/94
Corpbanca*      --    --    --    --    --    --    --           -      -      --    --    --
BUCI           454    384   371    346   .183    7.6   0.49   3.16   22.8   13.7   2.6    0.0    1.7    1.3
Commercial      59    52    45    50   .151   24.1  -0.18  -1.40   30.9    6.8   7.1    0.0   19.7    5.6
Vallemar        41    37    31    35   .124   15.7  -1.63  -14.8   37.0   11.5   3.0    0.0    0.0    4.2
Wtavg9/94      554   473    447   431   .175   10.0  0.26   1.35   24.7   12.8   3.1    0.0    3.5    2.0
Result9/98     415    366    104    198   .132    1.4  -1.30  -11.1   18.8   10.4  14.1    0.0    7.5   42.8
TIO - 9194
Provencor      124    106    105    96   .169   10.9  0.18   1.27   41.2   64.5    0.0    0.0    3.5    1.5
D. Rocha         5      4      5      4   .248    6.6  -1.75  -8.78    0.5   88.5    1.5   0.0    1.1    1.1
Caudal          65    57    50    53   .147   14.2  0.14   1.06   15.3    4.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.4
LaPlata        123    106    92    93   .156   20.6  -0.51  -3.76   26.9   16.2   0.0    0.0    2.9    0.0
Noar           131    117   103    111   .119   12.6  0.45   4.23   27.7   54.2    0.7    0.0    1.1    9.1
Mayo*          419   364    268   323   .149    9.4  0.10   0.79   35.6   10.0   6.1    0.0    2.0   13.2
Olavarria      145   120    108    98   .208   20.4   0.12   0.72   18.6   11.6    0.8   0.0    0.7    0.5
BAires          12      9     10      9   .344   10.1  -0.37  -1.45    8.7   10.1    0.0    0.0    1.5   11.3
Patricios      232   206    159   174   .125    9.0  0.21   1.87   54.4   24.0    0.5    0.0    7.4    7.3
NuevaEra       104    89    68    73   .168    7.0  0.35   2.43   33.7   17.1  26.1    0.0   11.6   4.1
Wt avg 9/94    1360   1178   968   1034   .154   12.0  0.12   1.01   34.5   22.9   4.1    0.0   3.5    6.9
Result9/98    1523   1372   844   1030   .110   20.4  0.10   1.05   36.6   25.5    0.2    3.4    6.6   21.3
Til  - 9/94
Cred Prov      292    258    144    182   .129    9.2   0.07   0.60   47.3   27.7    0.4    5.0    8.2    5.6
Junin           73    62    53    58   .182   18.2  -0.09  -0.60   34.3    1.2   0.0    0.0    0.9    2.1
Tandil         152   131    104   121   .162   25.5   0.03   0.18   31.2   14.6   0.9    0.0    2.7    0.0
Baires          69    56      54    54  .231    6.2   0.48   2.55   11.9    1.1    0.0    1.2    1.7    9.0
Wt avg 9/94    586   507    355   415   .156   14.2  0.09   0.57   37.3   17.9   0.4    2.6    5.1   4.1
Result 9/98     --    --      -      --    --      --    --    --    --    --    --           -      --     -
T12 - 9/94
Macro*         557   512    197   145  .088    6.1   0.40   4.97    1.3    1.1   36.2   3.1    3.4   25.1
Misiones       504   503    315    159  .004   14.0  -0.12  -33.3   22.2    6.6   4.8   37.7    3.2    0.4
Wtavg9/94    1061   1015   512    304   .048    9.9   0.15  -13.2   11.2   3.7   21.3   19.5    3.3   13.4
Result 9/98    552   475    365   243   .163   39.4  0.80   5.69   26.1   11.7  23.9    6.7    2.3   12.6
T13 - 9/94
Florencia*     173    159    93    75   .091    6.4   0.38   4.50   14.9    1.8  21.9   0.1    7.3    1.6
S Estero*       89    86   266       62   .040   94.1  -9.53   -247   58.1    0.9    0.0    4.4    0.0    0.0
Wt avg 9/94    262   245    359    137   .074   36.2  -2.99  -80.9  29.6    1.5  14.5    1.6   4.8    1.1
Wtavg9/98      294    262    IlI   182   .134   19.8  0.76   8.06   37.2   18.2   9.8   22.5    0.7   20.9
T14 - 9/94
Medefin        813    757    360   264   .074    2.8   0.37   5.28   21.6   0.4    2.3    0.0    5.9   11.3
UNB SA         567   525    254   203   .079    2.4   0.47   6.38    6.0    1.1   18.3    0.0    0.4    6.0
Wt avg 9/94    1380   1282   614    467   .076    2.6  0.41   5.73   15.2   0.7    8.9    0.0    3.6    9.1
Result 9/98     --    --    --    --    --    --          -      --    --    --    --    --
TIS - 9/94
Nvo Azul*       45     39    31      37   .169   24.8  -0.10  -7.07   29.3   41.1    0.9    0.0    0.0    3.2
Industrial      52    35    47       24   .471    6.5   2.25   7.02    0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.2



44
Wt avg 9/94    97    74    78    61  .331   15.0  1.16   0.48   14.0  19.1   0.4   0.0   0.0   2.1
Result9/98     111    81    S0    54  .367   19.1  1.39   5.17   17.9   1.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.3
T16 - 9/94
Transandino*    31    22    25    20  .408   10.7  -3.67  -12.7  17.4   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0  26.0
Cred. Cuyo    107    88    84    81  .217   12.1  0.97   5.41   18.6   15.4   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.0
Wtavg9/94     138   110   109   101  .260   11.8  -0.07   1.34   18.3   12.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   5.8
Result 9/98   251   219   163   138  .145   20.3  -0.34  -2.67   24.3   5.0   0.7   0.0   0.0   18.4
T17 - 9/94
Prev Social   602   517   456   387  .163   26.7  0.39   2.81   29.7  29.6   0.5   7.2   6.9   5.9
Mendoza*      1058   904   937   682  .170   32.8  0.45   3.06   11.1   9.3    1.2   6.9   0.2   9.8
Repdblica*    898   804   343   170  .115    8.2  0.30   2.91    6.1   0.0   0.0   3.5   4.0   20.0
Wt avg 9/94    2558  2225   1736  1239  .149   22.7  0.38   2.95   13.7  10.8   0.6   5.8   3.1   12.5
Wt avg 9/98   1256  1091   722   639  .159   12.7  -0.62  -6.11   20.8   8.7   0.0   4.2  19.8   16.9
T18-9/94
SantaFe*      901   868   759   711  .039   46.7  0.27   7.35   34.0   6.7   1.3   1.6   0.1    0.6
Negocios*     463   425   197   215  .089    6.9  0.02   0.30   15.3   0.7   0.0   0.0  13.8   4.9
Wtavg9/94    1364  1293   956   926  .056   33.2  0.19   4.96   27.7   4.7   0.9   1.1   4.8   2.1
Wt avg 9/98    1675  1417   643   953  .192    4.4    --        -     -    1.5   1.8   0.0   4.1   20.6
T19 - 9/94
Cuenca LP      10    0.5   .45   .35   21.4   9.5  -2.32  -2.43   20.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  84.7
Noroeste      220   197   102   107  .115   19.3  -0.03  -2.64   16.2  13.7  13.3   2.1   18.4    1.6
Caseros       339   277   246   266  .224    9.3  0.37   2.04   44.2   10.4   0.0   0.0   0.7   0.1
CredArg      2141   1865  1346  1165  .148    9.8  0.05   0.42   30.1   9.8   16.4   0.0  20.0   0.6
Francis*     2554  2113   1446  1164  .208    3.9  0.63   3.64   32.8  20.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   8.1
Wt avg 9/94   5264  4453  3140  2702  .221    7.3  0.34   1.95   31.7   15.0   7.3   0.1   8.9   4.4
Result9/98    9515  8787  5080  5049  .083   14.4  0.41   5.33   28.0   7.1   1.3  17.5   11.0  29.6
* Indicates Bank still in operation, third quarter, 1998.



45
Table 13: Lending to the public sector and change in employment for public and
privatized provincial banks (Q3 1998)
%  Public           Change in Employment
(July 1995-
(Q3 1998)               September 1998)
Public Provincial Banks                                     8.40%                   -.0*
Banco de la Provincia de Tierradel Fuego                      2.04%                     7.20%
Banco de Chubut                              ~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~42.61%  -19.06%
lanco e La Pampa''                                           .0......%. 3-0.02 %-",
Banco e Neuquen                                               5.05%                     13.52%
Banco de la Provincia d   unsArs                               65%-.3
Banco d IaroCrvi1ncia de Cordoba                               .6%-19.33%
Banco de Social Cordoba                                       3.00%                    -455
BancoSantafesino de Inversion                 ~~~~~0.46%/               -16.67%
iacde Catamnarca                                          02%2.0
Privatized Provincial Banks +                               6.19%                  -34.77%**
Bjncode Formosa                              ~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~15.80%  -45.99%
Barncode Jujuy                                                0.00%                    -61.41%
Banco de Rio Negro                                            4.41%                     3.7
B3anco de Salta                                               0.15%                     -5.73%
Ban'-odeS-WYanJa   3....23%                                                            -32.11%
Banco de Santiago del Estero                                  8.23%                    -37.84%
BFanco del Tucumnan                                           11.25%                   -50.40%
Ban-c-o McoMsoe                                               19.82%                   -27.25%
Bianco Mendoza                                                0.31%                           ...-....
Banco San Luis                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.07%        -41.23%  -
NujevoBancoodel Chaco S.A-.++++--                             0.18%-301
Banco Mcro Miiones ++                                     19.82%-384
Menoa. ++                                                     031                      -55.98%
**Test of null hypothesis that the two means are the samne is rejected at a 5% level
+ Excludes Banco de Santa FE and Banco de Santa Cruz, because post-privatization data were not available.
++ Includes employees of Banco Macro, which was merged with Banco de Misiones after privatization.
++  Includes assets and employees of both Social de Mendoza and Banco de Mendoza, which were merged after privatization.



46
ANNEX 4. FIGURES
F        Fgure 1: Credit Growth and Financial Depth
26.0
22.0
120
&'I 18.0                   
16.0
+ ~~~IM
14.0       
1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   '1996   1997
Note: End of year and figures include pesos and dolars.
Credit doesn't include accrual resources
Figure 1
Total Deposits by Type of Bank by Quarter, 12194-9/97
70000000
60000000                                    )
50000000                  I                ' 
~40000000   ~
30000000                                              ....- tot deps
0             X              0           0
Figure 2



47
Shares of Total Deposits, By Type of Bank, By Quarter,
12194-9/97
50.00%
45.00% 
40.00%..
35.00%                    r4
30.00%
25.00%
20.00%                   ---    -- -----
--.foreign
15.00% ^    _                       w   . ..... X.     +oeg          |
10.00%                                    .   .          .pri domest
5.00%                           .pub
0.00%                S ._.......                          priv'tized
CD~~~~~C
a)             a)              mc
U   d               o~~~~~~~~~~~~c
Quarter Ending
Figure 3
Number of Banks, By Type, By Quarter, 12194-9197
120
100
80                                8 _.;. .;.......  ....... .;.
40   .... o..  o.. .. .;  .+.:. ..  -------------------  * 
20  --foreign
~~~~'r   -0                                              pri donmest 
LO                    U1 D              pub
CD                a)                a)           0a)
0                 C                  )            .         priv'tized
0        o                 o      ~     ~~~~~~~~~ a)C'
Quarter Ending
Figure 4



48
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEX
Provincial Bank Privatization - Loan 3878-AR
TABLE 1: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY95             FY96              FY97
Appraisal estimate           166.0             333.0
Actual                       167.0             167.0             166.0
Actual as % of estimate      100%              50%
Date of final disbursement: December 16, 1996
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                    Actual Date/or Duration
Identification (Initial Executive Project  January 1995
Summary)
Preparation                               1.5 months
Appraisal                                February 16, 1995
Negotiations                             April 7, 1995
Board Presentation                       May 4, 1995
Signing                                  May 5, 1995
Effectiveness                            May 5, 1995
Loan closing                             April 30, 1997



49
TABLE 3: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS/1
Stage of project cycle                      Actual
Weeks           US$
Through appraisal                   18.2          148.5
Appraisal-Board                    4.5            30.1
Board-effectiveness                  .2             3.5
Supervision                      91.4          519.9
Completion                       3.6           16.6 2/
TOTAL                         117.9          718.6
/1 Includes Bank-financed consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.
/2 To be updated
TABLE 4: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan                Purpose             Amount    Year of
(US$ M)   Approval    Status FY99
Preceding Operations
3558-AR      FSAL (structural adjustment)  400.0        1993         Closed
3710-AR      Capital Market TA (technical    8.5        1994         Active
assistance)
3836-AR           Provincial Reforn         300.0       1995         Closed
Subsequent Operations
| 3926-AR             Bank Reform             500.0        1996         Closed



50
TABLE 5: MISSIONS
oect cycle    MonthV        Number                  Specialized
year           of       Days in     staff skills          Performance rating
persons     field     represented 1/                                                                 l
Implementation   Development
Status        Objectives              Types :      f
pro lerns
Through appraisal     February 1995       3          22          A,B,G
March 1995          1          5             F
Appraisal through     April 1995           1          3            A
Board approval
Board approval          May 1995          3           3          A,G,D
through effectiveness
Supervision           July 1995           3          14          A, C, E             S               S         The loan is offtc a good start
after three months since its
effectiveness.
September           4          1          A, E, H, I          S               S         Loan progress remains
1995                                                                                    satisfactory even though
privatization progress more
slowly in a market of few buyers.
October 1995        3          9           A,E,C              S               S         The loan appears poised to meet
its objectives fully specially as
provincial authorities
increasingly embrace
privatization as a means to
correct fiscal deficits.
December 1995       4          9          A,C,E,l             S               S         Two privatizations have been
completed and on& bank closure
has been finalized. Ten
privatizations are ngoing. Major
problems remain weak demand
for provincial banks and
protracted negothnions between
buyers and sellers to r each
closure.
February 1996       3          14          A,C,E              S               S         Trust Fund disbursements have
remained unchang d. Four
privatizations hayc been
completed; one betik closure
finalized.
April 1996          3          10          A,C,E              S               S         Trust Funds comrlitments have
risen and disburserients have
increased and are exrpected to
accelerate.
July 1996           2          4            A,E               S               S         The loan's financial ircentives
have already draw  thirteen
provincial banks ir:l o the
program, exceedinE, expectations.
The project continries to progress
well despite a majo - Govemment
reshuffle.



51
| September          2          4             A,E                                          The program of privatizations
|     e1996                     -         .                                                retains its momentum.
January 1997         2          6             A,E                                          The question of whether funds
from the Third Tranche of the
Bank Reforcn Loan will be
needed to supplement the funding
of the provincial privatization
program.
June 1997            2          2             A,E                                          There is continuing concem on
the management of the
privatization process.
September      |     1     |    4             A                 S                S       | Loan is proceeding satisfactorily.
1997           llII
January 1998         1          6              A                         l                 The momentum ofthe
privatization program continues.
April 1998           1          3             A                                            The need for additional Bank
funding from the Third Tranche
of the Bank Reform Loan which
has been amended to permit a
Tranche disbursement either for
provincial banks or private banks.
June 1998            2          6             A,E                        |                 Issues: (i) Progress in resolving
l  l   l   l     |               | residual assets and liabilities and
l   l   l   l   I                t (ii) quality of banking services
I l   |   i      |               | provided by the newly privatized
I      _    _    _   I       _     _   I_                                  _ I  I_ _   !                _        ! provincial banks.
|Completion           |       1999      l           l          l                 l                l               l
1/ Key to specialization:                 E. Privatization Expert
A. Task Manager                        F. Division Chief
B. Chief Economist                     G. Prin. Country Economist
C. Fin. Sector Expert                  H. Prin. Financial Officer
D. Consultant                          1. Sr. Financial Economist



52
TABLE 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement          Section          Type of   Present                Description of Covenant                  Comments
Covenant   Status
Loan           Section 2.03            10          C      Closing date is April 30, 1997                   In compliance
Agreement
Section 3.03(b)(ii)     01         C       Fumish Bank audit two months following tranche   In compliance
releace.
Section 3.03(d)         01         C       Appoint auditor 30 days after tranche release.   In compliance
Section 3.04(a)         03         C       Promptly deposit proceeds into Trust Fund.       In compliance
Schedule 4, Part A      10         C       Tranche release conditions for second tranche.   tn compliance_
Schedule 4, Part B      10         C       Tranche release conditions for third tranche     In compliance
Side letter, May 5,     10         C       Bank to approve all Trust Fund drawdowns.        In compliance
1995
Side letter, May 5,     05         C       Trust Fund loans to be reduced by any funding    In compiliance
1995                                      received under Provincial Reform Loan.
Side letter, May 5,     05         C       Each bank to be privatized is to put in place pre-  In compliance
1995                                       privatization policies.
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/Audits                                     8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from         9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                        10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                   covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                                 11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the project                       budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                      allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                             12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                                regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = Not complied with



53
Bank Reform - Loan 3926-AR
TABLE 1: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY96            FY97             FY98           FY99
Appraisal estimate       166.7           333.3
Actual                   167.0           167.0                            166.0
Actual as % of           100%             50%
estimate
Date of final disbursement: December 10, 1998
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                   Actual Date/or Duration
Identification (Initial Executive Project Sumnmary)  March 1995
Preparation                                    1 month
Appraisal                                      May 18, 1995
Negotiations                                   June 13, 1995
Board Presentation                             July 27, 1995
Signing                                        October 18, 1995
Effectiveness                                  December 1, 1995
Loan closing                                   December 31, 1998



54
TABLE 3: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS/1
Stage of project cycle                            Actual
Weeks          US$
Through appraisal                        25.7          78.7
Appraisal-Board                          3.3           9.8
Board-effectiveness                       7.2          118.8
Supervision                           38.3          251.2
Completion /2
TOTAL                               74.5         458.5
/1 Includes Bank-financed consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.
/2 To be updated
TABLE 4: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan      ]          Purpose           ]Amount         Year of            F
(US$ M)    Approval    Status FY99
Preceding Operations
3362-AR         Public Sector Reform TA      23.0         1991          Closed
3558-AR       FSAL (Structural Adjustment)    400.0       1993          Closed
3710-AR       Capital Market TA (Technical    8.5         1994          Active
Assistance)             _                                   l
3836             Provincial Reform         300.0        1995          Closed
Subsequent Operations
3878-AR       Provincial Bank Privatization  500.0        1995          Closed



55
TABLE 5: MISSIONS
Stage of Project cycle   MonWh          Number                Specialized
Year            of       Days in    staffskills         Performance rating
persons     field    represented 1/
Implementation    Development
Status        objectives              problemsf
Through appraisal    March 1995            2          2          F,G
Appraisal through
Board approval
Board approval        September 1995       1          3           A
through effectiveness
October 1995       3           9         A,H,D
Supervision          December 1995         3         10         A,B, C            S                         Major concems are quality of
transactions, regulatory
forbearance and the outlook of
future bank consolidations.
February 1996        2          14         A,C              S                         Major delays might be caused by
borrowing banks taking
. _                                 unexpectedly lengthy periods to
convert Trust Fund loans into
subordinated notes.
April 1996           2          10         A,C               S               S        Loan progress is satisfactory. All
Second Tranche conditions have
been met.
July 1996            1          4            A               S                        Since the Third Tranche do not
appear to be required, cancellation
is being recommended.
September 1996       1          2           A                S              S         The Argentines are not in favor of
canceling the Third Tranche
requiring more time to develop
proposals to strengthen the Central
Bank's voice in the TF and how
TF loan conditions might be
changed.
January 1997         1          2           A                                         Proposed loan amendment to allow
flexible use of the Third Tmache
for Provincial Bank Priv. And to
advance the closing date.
June 1997            1          2           A                                         Follow up on ptogress in the
consolidations of the Argentine
banking system including the latest
high-profile acquisitions of
prominent Argentine private banks
by major intemal banks.
September 1997       1          3           A                S       |       S        Loan is proceeding satisfactorily.
Argentine authorities to request
I l  l    l             l                l              |  ctosing date extension to
December 1998.



56
January 1998            1            6             A                                              It is highly lik* ytmt the Third
Tranche will be applied to
provincial bank privatizations
which is allowed thirough a loan
amendment approved by the Boi rd
in April 1997.
April 1998              1            3             A                                              Interest in seeki.sg a Third Tranc|i2
disbursement to meet a new and
emerging consolidastion need of
private domesti.ally owned ban=s.
June 1998               1            3             A                                              Despite the unc rpected major
financial demaii9s 9n the Bank
Capitalization/ K orust Fund due to
recent Central Mnane interventions
on smaller donisati~ banks, the
Trust Fund coni E muts to remain
liquid and not require additional
funding from the Bank..
Completion              1999              -_                 _  _       _  _  _  _     _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _      _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
11 Key to specialization:                   E. Legal Counsel
A. Task Manager                          F. Division Chief
B. Sr. Fin. Economist                    G. DirectoT
C. Fin. Sector Specialist                H. Privatization Expert
D. Consultant



57
TABLE 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement        Section          Type of      Present                 Description of Covenant                 Comments
Covenant      Status
Loan         Section 2.03           10            C       Closing date is December 1998.                     In compliance
Agreement
Section 301(a-c)       09           C        Report and exchange views on the program.          In compliance
Section 3.03(a-d)      01           C        Maintain accounts and provide audit on expenditures  In compliance
financed out of the loan.
Section 3.04           04           C        Deposit tranche proceeds into Trust Fund.          In compliance
Section 3.05 (a-c)     09           C        Consult with Bank, report on loans made, finance section  In Compliance
35(bis) transactions respecting agreed restrictions.
Schedule 1,            10           C        Second tranche conditions.                         In Compliance
para.4(a) and
Schedule 4,
Section I
Schedule 1,            10           C        Third tranche conditions                           In Compliance
para.(b) and
Schedule 4,
Section 2
Minutes of Neg. of     10            C       Trust Fund operating principles and procedures.    In Compliance
June 16, 1995
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/Audits                                    8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from         9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                       10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                   covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                                 11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the project                       budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                      allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                             12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policyl
7 = Involuntary resettlement                                regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = Not complied with



