Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE    a' rV                                                Report No. P-6570-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROVINCIAL
BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION
TO
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
APRIL 20, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Argentine Peso (Arg$)
Arg$1 = US$1
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BANADE    =        National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
BCRA         =     Central Bank (Banco Central de la Republica Argentina)
BHN          =     National Mortgage Bank (Banco Hipotecario Nacional)
BICE         =     Investment and Trade Bank (Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior)
BNA          =     Banco de la Naci6n Argentina
CIF          =     Cost Insurance Freight
CNV          -     Comisi6n Nacional de Valores
CPI          =     Consumer Price Index
EFF          =     Extended Fund Facility
FSAL         =     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FY           =     Fiscal Year
GDP          =     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         =     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB          =     Inter American Development Bank
IFC                International Finance Corporation
IMF                International Monetary Fund
LIBOR              London Interbank Offer Rate
MERCOSUR =         Southern Cone Trade Bloc (Mercado del Cono Sur)
P/E          =     Price/Earnings
PRL          =     Provincial Reform Loan
PSRL         =     Public Sector Reform Loan
SME          =     Small and Medium Enterprises
VAT          =     Value-Added Tax
YPF          =     YPF Oil Company (Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales)
WPI          =     Wholesale Price Index



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      THE SETTING .......................................... 1-
Economic Context ........................................ 1
Recent Performance . ....................................... 2
The Mexico Crisis  .           ....................................... 3
I1.     THE FINANCIAL SECTOR  .........                            ......................... 4
Financial Sector Policy Objectives and Reform   ....................... 4
Regulatory Reform ......................................... 5
Sector Restructuring . ....................................... 7
Adjustment in Public Banks  .............................. 7
Adjustment in Private Banks .............................. 8
Effects of the Crisis . ....................................... 8
Capital Markets Reaction ................................ 9
Government Response ...                                                                    10
Future Prospects  ... ..................                          ............... 11
Provincial Banks .............                                              .......                 12
Efficiency Impact of Provincial Banks  ....................... 12
Confidence Impact of Provincial Banks  ...................... 13
Impact of Recent Liquidity Crisis .......................... 13
III.  PROVINCIAL BANKS AND PROVINCIAL FINANCES ............... 14
Estimated Costs and Benefits .15
IV.  THE PROPOSED- LOAN ................................... 17
Bank Involvement in the Financial Sector .......................... 17
Background .............................. 17
Loan Objectives and Description   ..............................  18
Prospects for Provincial Bank Privatization  .             .......................  19
Privatization Methodology  ..............................  19
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions .......................... 20
Loan Amount .............................. 21
Agreements Reached During Negotiations   .                 ....................... 21
Tranche Conditions .............................. 22
Disbursement, Procurement, Records and Auditing .24
Benefits and Risks  ...........                 ............................ 25
Social Impact  .          ............. ............................ 26
Environrmental Aspects ............................. 27
This Report is based on the findings of a joint task team of Messrs. Stefan Alber and Mauricio Carrizosa who visited
Argentina in February 1995. Other mission members included Hemant Shah (Sr. Financial Sector Economist) and Jacques
Morisset (Country Economist). Mr. Danny Leipziger (Lead Economist) and Ms. Diana McNaughton (Peer Reviewer)
participated in the mission as well. Ms. Clarisabel Coss has been responsible for report processing. Messrs./Ms.
Constance Bernard, Orville Grimes and Gobind T. Nankani are the responsible Chief, Project Advisor and Director,
respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.    RECOMMENDATION .................................... 27
ANNEXES
A.    Letter of Sectoral Development Policy
B.    Status of Bank Group Operations
C.    Status of IFC Investments
D.    Performance of Public Banks
E.    The Fiscal Situation in the Provinces
F.    Provincial Bank Privatization Program
G.    Privatization Costs
H.    Role and Operation of the Privatization Trust Fund
I.    Matrix of Tranche Conditions
Map - IBRD No. 25587



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:                The Argentine Republic
Beneficiaries:           Provincial Governments
Amount:                  US$500 million
Terms:                   At the Bank's standard interest rate with a grace period of five
years and a term of fifteen years.
Description:             Because of past mismanagement and ongoing deposit losses, the
equity of provincial banks has turned sharply negative and their
liquidity has become precarious. These banks are now draining
already weak provincial finances and present a systemic risk to
the banking system. Thus the provincial as well as the federal
authorities have asked for urgent financial assistance in pursuing
privatization as a way to restructure and sell the remaining
sound assets and liabilities to the private sector. The proposed
adjustment operation is directed at assisting the national
government to provide an orderly framework in which federal
financial support for costs associated with privatization/closure
is provided, subject to: (i) legislative authorization of
privatization at the provincial level; (ii) intervention of the
Superintendency of Banks; (iii) change of management; (iv) a
time-bound, transparent privatization process; (v) timely
resolution of residual assets and liabilities; and (vi) bank closure
in the event of failed privatization. The loan is expected to
support the privatization of some fifteen provincial banks,
representing about 10% of total banking or 40% of provincial
banking assets.
Benefits and Risks:      The loan builds on a ten-year policy dialogue in the financial
sector. It would help achieve the long-advocated policy
objective of significantly reducing public sector presence in the
banking system. Provincial banks have been a major and
chronic issue, and the current financial crisis is providing a
historic opportunity to bring about structural and difficult-to-
reverse change. Major specific benefits would include the
consolidation of the banking system and a broadening in the
reach of banking supervision. Also, provincial finances would



gain through decreased fiscal deficits and improved transparency
and discipline.
The main risk is that neither privatization nor closure actually
occurs. Privatization may not materialize either for lack of
buyers or a reversal of political will. Closure of banks may be
delayed if essential banking services cannot be contracted out.
If in fact, neither privatization nor closure occurs, repayment of
all funds lent to provincial goverrnents would be accelerated
and become due immediately at a penalty interest.
Poverty Category:       Not Applicable
Estimated Disbursements: The loan would be disbursed in three equal tranches against
import documentation and the counterpart proceeds would be
deposited into a Privatization Trust Fund. The Interamerican
Development Bank is expected to provide US$750 million and
disburse pan passu with the Bank. Tranche disbursements
would be conditioned on a satisfactory macroeconomic program
as well as actions to ensure the appropriate functioning of the
Privatization Trust Fund and to provide for a sound banking
supervision process. Second and Third Tranches would be
conditioned on the full drawdown from the Privatization Trust
Fund of the counterpart proceeds of the prior tranche.
Drawdowns from the Privatization Trust Fund would be
permitted bank by bank only after provincial governments meet
a set of strict conditions providing an orderly framework for
privatization, and subsequently, against evidence that either
privatization or closure has actually occurred.
Schedule of Disburselnents:
Bank FY     95           96
Annual      167         333
Cumulative  167         500
FSnancing Plan:                                  US$(millions)
World Bank                     500.0
IDB                            750.0
Prov. Governments               50.0
1,300.0
Rate of Return:         Not Applicable



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed adjustment loan to support provincial bank privatization to the Argentine
Republic for the equivalent of US$500 million to support financial sector as well as
fiscal reforms in the provinces. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, with a five-year grace period and a maturity of fifteen years.
I. THE SETTING
Economic Context'
2.    Four years have passed since Argentina, emerging from the severe economic
crisis of 1989-90, adopted the Convertibility Plan. This innovative plan restructured
Argentina's economic landscape. From extreme hyperinflation, it moved relatively
quickly to an annual inflation rate of 3.9 percent in 1994. Output and productivity
increases have been remarkable for the last four years, with GDP growth averaging 7.7
percent. The initial consumption-led boom matured into a healthy pattern of
investment and export-led growth. Privatization of state assets has been far-reaching,
and much more successful than expected. As a result of the economic recovery,
poverty levels initially declined significantly, although economic restructuring with a
rigid labor market has resulted in increased unemployment; about 12 percent of the
labor force by late 1994. The abundance of foreign exchange due to the capital inflows
led to a real appreciation of the currency. The Argentine peso appreciated in real
terms by about 20 percent between the beginning of the Convertibility Law regime and
end-1994; however, after adjustment for tax reductions and other reforms, the loss to
export competitiveness may be one-third lower.
3.    The Convertibility Plan was part of a comprehensive reform program at the
national level"' including reforms of the state and financial institutions, privatization,
and liberalization of foreign and domestic credit. Extending these reforms to the
provinces continues to present a significant challenge. While fiscal adjustment has
occurred at the federal level, provincial fiscal deficits persist, mainly because of the
1/    See the Country Assistance Strategy dated April 10, 1995 for a more comprehensive assessment
of Argentina's economic prospects.
2/    Past Bank support for this program entailed various operations in support of financial sector
adjustment, capital markets development, privatization, and modernization of the public sector.



continued inability of provincial governments to contain current expenditures and
sufficiently increase their own-source revenues. The potential benefits from the
decentralization of many federal functions may be significant, but many provinces are
not fully prepared to fulfill their increasingly important roles in health, education,
security, water and sanitation services, and the strengthening of provincial governments
is vital.
Recent Performance
4.    With the dynamic evolution of the economy, shifting from consumption-- to
export-- and investment-led growth, GDP in 1993 and 1994 grew by 6 and 7.1 percent
respectively. Gross fixed investment reached 20 percent in 1994, associated with
increased national and foreign savings. Exports, which were affected by declining
international prices in 1992-93, rose by 20 percent in 1994, with manufactured goods
exports exhibiting particular buoyancy, growing at an average of 27 percent in 1993-
94. Better international prices for grains and improved economic conditions in Brazil
contributed to the growth in exports. In 1994, imports grew at the fast pace of 26.7
percent. Imports of capital goods led the expansion, indicative of the acceleration in
investment and the restructuring of the economy. Financing trade and current account
deficits was not difficult, given Argentina's improved access to international financial
markets during 1993 and 1994. During the first two months of 1995, exports rose by
35 percent, while imports remained approximately at the previous year's level.
5.    With the increased accumulation of international reserves, and the reduction in
bank reserve requirements earlier in 1993, monetary aggregates expanded at a fast
pace. Bank credit grew at an even faster rate, reflecting the sub-par, but fast
improving, monetization of the economy. Interest rates on peso deposits declined from
25 percent in December 1992 to 9 percent by early December 1994, just before the
Mexican crisis began. Interest rate spreads, although also declining, remained high,
reaching 13 percent, indicative of the continued segmentation and shallowness of the
financial system. Towards the end of 1994, approximately half of Argentina's financial
transactions were in US dollars, and interest rates and spreads were much lower.
Continued capital inflows sustained the growth in aggregate demand. Liquid
international reserves at end-November 1994 stood at US$14.5 billion, a significant
increase since the end of 1992. Nonetheless, the general instability in world financial
markets, which started in early 1994, as well as the more recent crisis in Mexico, have
had a negative impact on Argentine financial markets. Reserve accumulation and credit
expansion decelerated substantially in the first three quarters of 1994; by early 1995
they were falling as dollarization of the economy accelerated.
6.    In August 1994, Argentina reached an accord with Brazil, Uruguay and
Paraguay, its MERCOSUR partners, to: (i) eliminate most intra-group tariffs as of
January 1, 1995; and (ii) establish a common external tariff covering 85 percent of the
positions of the import-tariff nomenclature in January 1995, to be subsequently



- 3 -
increased to 97 percent in January 2001. To ease the transition, exemptions have been
authorized. Each government may exclude up to 60 positions from MERCOSUR trade
and up to 300 positions from the common external tariff. Moreover, the automobile,
sugar and telecommunications sectors will continue to benefit temporarily from their
existing privileged regimes. Since Argentina's trade in MERCOSUR and resumption
of sustainable economic growth is primarily with Brazil, its prospects are closely tied
to the continued stabilization of the Brazilian economy, which accounts for 22 percent
of Argentina's total trade.
The Mexico Crisis
7.    Argentina has been particularly vulnerable to the events in Mexico due to
Argentina's relatively heavy reliance on foreign capital inflows (financing in 1994 an
estimated current account deficit of 3.6 percent of GDP), the inflexibility of its
exchange rate regime, and the need for a strong financial system under the
Convertibility Plan. Argentina, however, enjoyed several advantages: (a) its current
account deficit was less than half that of Mexico's; (b) it had stable political and
economic leadership; (c) its level of international reserves remained high; (d) public
debt maturities were not concentrated in the short-term spectrum of the market; and (e)
many of its structural reforms--privatization, governmental reform, domestic market
liberalization, and foreign investment--were deeper.
8.    The Government has reacted forcefully to the crisis. During late February and
March 1995, it took courageous measures to reestablish a fiscal surplus by cutting
expenditures on, inter alia, export subsidies, public sector wages, and social security
expenditures, while raising VAT rates and other taxes. Swift action by Congress in
approving unpalatable emergency measures added to the credibility of the measures,
which were supported by a conditional IMF program. As the Government announced
these measures in mid-March, it also assembled an international financial package of
approximately US$11 billion in support of the Convertibility Plan. About US$5.4
billion would come from the IMF, Inter-American Bank, and the Bank; an additional
US$8.0 million may come from the Eximbank of Japan; about US$2.3 billion is
expected from two large bond issues; and US$2.4 billion from projected asset sales.
As a result, by early April, financial markets showed signs of stabilization and
recovery. Not only have the authorities reacted firmly to the crisis on the eve of
presidential elections scheduled for May 14, by announcing measures estimated to yield
some US$6.3 billion, equivalent to 2 percent of GDP in the remainder of 1995, but
they have received strong political support in Congress, where the fiscal program was
approved in record time.
9.    The Mexican crisis brought to light important lessons for Argentina. It
highlighted the extent of the economy's reliance on volatile capital flows; revealed the
need for a strong financial system, including the relevance of a dollar lender of last
resort in an increasingly dollarized system; reemphasized the need to sustain the



credibility of the economic program; and clearly illustrated the difficulties in changing
the exchange rate during periods of crisis. A more generalized result is the larger
perceived risk of emerging economies by the international financial markets. While
this higher perceived risk will inevitably reduce capital inflows to countries such as
Argentina, the rate of such deceleration will be a function of policy responses to the
crisis, both regionally and on a country-by-country basis.
10.   The strong and rapid reaction of the Government to the crisis has reduced
concerns about its future domestic action but the external environment remains
uncertain. Although the initially strong negative reaction of financial markets to the
Mexican crisis has now improved, it is clear there remains a reluctance to redirect
significant flows towards emerging markets, particularly in Latin America. Moreover,
there continues to be a general lack of discrimination between developing countries in
this region by the markets. Even under an optimistic scenario, in which the principal
countries affected by the crisis adopt appropriate economic policy measures that
reestablish credibility in the eyes of international investors in the next few months,
access to international financial markets will be only slowly regained beginning in late
1995, and capital inflows will remain below those observed in previous years.
11.   If international capital markets remain tepid for a longer period, which appears
to be a likely development, net capital inflows, even with the enhanced assistance of
multilateral organizations, may be barely positive in 1995, compared to US$10.5
billion in 1994. The reduction in capital inflows, together with an estimated decline in
net international reserves of approximately US$3.2 billion would only sustain a
severely reduced current account deficit of possibly 1.2 percent of GDP, approximately
a third of the deficit in 1994. To achieve this adjustment in the external accounts,
economic activity would decelerate sharply, with some recovery in 1996 as capital
inflows partially recover. Inflation would continue to decelerate, reducing further the
past real appreciation of the peso. A fuller examination of balance of payments
prospects is set out in the Country Assistance Strategy dated April 10, 1995.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Financial Sector Policy Objectives and Reform
12.   Financial sector reform has been an integral part of Argentina's policy agenda.
Since 1990, the Government has sought to increase mobilization of financial resources
and thereby contain the cost of capital to meet the needs of the anticipated expansion of
consumption and investment demand. The total of currency plus deposits held in the
banking system had declined from about 40 percent of GDP in the 1940s and 15 to 20
percent in the 1970s to 5 percent in 1990, the lowest level in Latin America that year.
Dwindling resource mobilization reduced the amount of bank credit from around 40
percent of GDP in the early 1940s to 10 percent of GDP in 1989. Furthermore, terms



to maturity on domestic financial instruments had declined from up to three months
before 1989 to about a week in 1990, and holdings of medium- or long-term private
bonds were virtually nil. Monthly real lending rates were very unstable, hovering
between -10 and 10 percent between 1987, when interest rates were liberalized, and
early 1991.
13.   To increase resource mobilization and reduce real interest rates, the Government
implemented policies enhancing confidence in the economy and the financial system.
Macroeconomic policies had reduced and stabilized inflation -- thereby reducing the
uncertainty of real asset yields -- and increased GDP. Annual inflation declined from
1,972 percent (average of CPI and WPI) in 1990 to 3.9 percent in 1994, and real GDP
growth increased from 0.4 percent in 1990 to an average of 7.4 percent during 1991-
94. Both developments increased the demand for financial assets.
14.   These policies were very successful in increasing resource mobilization, at least
until the end of 1994. With greater interest rate stability and faster growth, currency
and bank deposits (including dollar deposits) increased from an average of 5 percent of
GDP in 1990 to 19 percent in 1994. Deposit maturities increased from their all time
low of seven days in 1990 to 30 to 60 days in 1994. Outstanding bank credit to the
private sector also increased, from 10 percent of GDP in 1990 to 17 percent in 1994.
The policies were also successful in stabilizing the monthly commercial bank lending
rate, with the average real rate declining from about 2.5 percent at the onset of the
Convertibility Plan (April 1991) to about 1.5 percent in late 1994.
15.   The policies were also successful in increasing corporate equity and bond issues
up to the end of 1994. Corporations, including commercial banks, raised an
impressive US$9.9 billion in equity issues and registered US$6.5 billion in bond issues
during 1990-1993. Bond issues surged after the government removed hefty transaction
taxes that had priced bonds out of the Argentine market. The emergence of bond
markets permitted commercial banks to extend loans with longer maturities, including
mortgage loans of up to ten years. Nevertheless, stock market capitalization remained
low, even by emerging market standards, and the bond market was very illiquid.
Regulatory Reform
16.  In addition, the Government made good progress in strengthening banking and
capital market institutions. New banking policies primarily sought to improve the
financial soundness of the banking system to help increase confidence in domestic
financial institutions and reduce the Government's exposure to losses stemming from
bank failures. Increased confidence in domestic financial institutions was required to
encourage depositors and investors to exercise their demand for financial assets through
these institutions, as opposed to keeping their assets in currency or depositing off-
shore. Reduced exposure to losses stemming from bank failure--a major tenet of
macroeconomic policy--motivated the Government to forego formal public deposit



- 6 -
insurance. Private deposit insurance was intensely debated at that time but, in the end,
found no support with the private banking system.
17.   To encourage banking institutions to become and remain financially sound,
changes to the Law of Financial Institutions increased the threat of closure for weak
institutions. Under the reformed Law of Financial Institutions, the Central Bank has
the authority to withdraw the operating license of private commercial banks that do not
comply with Central Bank technical ratios (i.e., reserve, capital, and provisioning
requirements), if the Central Bank's board rejects the commercial bank's plan to
achieve the required levels. These policies indeed reduced the solvency risks of the
system. The overall share of substandard portfolio in total assets declined from 37 in
1990 to 17 percent in 1993. Nevertheless, capital remained inadequate in some
institutions, including public banks, and some cooperative and wholesale banks.
Further protection against losses from bank failures resulted from the sale or liquidation
of some public banks.
18.   The Government has made major strides in banking regulation and supervision
during the last three years. Regulatory improvements include: (i) upgrading of capital
requirements from the simple asset-liability ratios that prevailed until December 1991
to fully developed risk-based requirements that take account of CAMEL3' ratings of
financial institutions; (ii) improvement in portfolio classification provisions, from
guarantee-based categories to categories based on capacity to repay (requiring a cash
flow analysis of all clients); (iii) strengthening of provisioning requirements, including
one percent provisioning on fully performing loans; (iv) strengthening of risk
diversification provisions, including establishment of a cap of five percent of capital on
an exposure to a controlling shareholder and a cap of three times the capital on the sum
of all individual exposures exceeding 10 percent of capital; and (v) consolidation of
balance sheets on a line-by-line basis to include subsidiaries and off-shore offices.
19.   Furthermore, the structure, staffing, and technology of the Superintendency of
Banks have been reformed. The structure is organized around six managers that
specialize by type of bank, one of which is also in charge of systems auditing. These
managers, who were recruited from international auditing firms and commercial bank
credit departments, have in turn been responsible for recruiting 150 junior auditors.
Thirty senior auditors lead inspection teams, and each inspection team of up to seven
auditors includes a systems auditor who reviews the logic and physical integrity of an
institution's systems. Total staffing is 350. Upgrading of systems is being finalized,
which will include a network connection with financial institutions. Inspection strategy
calls for biannual inspection of large banks (i.e., with assets exceeding $700 million)
and banks with a substandard rating. Banks in good rating standing are inspected every
nine months. All banks are monitored on a monthly basis. Institutional strengthening
3/    CAMEL stands for Capital adequacy, Asset quality, Management effectiveness, Earnings
performance and Liquidity.



- 7 -
is a continuing concern and authorities are benefitting from ongoing technical assistance
provided by US authorities. In addition, the Bank will be continuing its review and
offer technical assistance in on-going and future operations.
20.   Similarly, the Government strengthened regulation, supervision, and
enforcement in the capital market. A pension reform law was passed that was expected
to generate substantial savings for investment in financial assets. Mutual funds
legislation was amended to allow for both open and closed funds, to clarify the powers
and responsibilities of the fund management company, to allow greater portfolio
diversity, and to improve mutual-fund investor protection. Other measures included
incentives for capital repatriation and modernized stock market regulations (such as
streamlined approval processes for public offerings, and automatic authorization of
additional shares and debt securities; establishment of rating requirements on publicly
offered securities; and stronger reporting, disclosure, and auditing requirements).
21.   A review of the markets' characteristics indicated that trading, depository,
clearance, and settlement infrastructure was basically sound and that the legal
framework largely complete. Remaining regulatory shortcomings include the lack of a
modem insider trading law; excessively costly requirements for publicly offered
securities; segmentation of trading systems for stocks and bonds; and inadequate capital
requirements for securities trading. Institutional development of the stock market
regulatory agency (Comisi6n Nacional de Valores-CNV) is being supported by the
Bank's 1993 Capital Market TA Loan (Ln. 3710-AR) through training, regulatory
development and hardware and software development.
Sector Restructuring
22.   Adjustment in Public Banks. Dealing with public banks has proven to be one
of the more difficult and intractable challenges for Argentina's financial policy.
Argentina has 34 federal, provincial, and municipal banks. In the provincial bank
category, there remain 20 banks owned by provincial governments. As public banks
were created by federal or provincial/municipal laws, any amendment of such laws
requires the approval of the respective legislatures. In the past, the large majority of
provincial legislatures have resisted enacting privatization laws. Together, all public
banks account for about 40 percent of banking assets. The performance of these banks
has been modest or downright poor, contributing to public sector deficits. The
activities of these banks distort financial intermediation, essentially by directing funds
to less profitable activities for which private banks will not lend. Furthermore, state-
owned banks cannot be closed by the Superintendency of Banks when regulatory
requirements are not met, as can privately-owned banks.
23.   The Government has been increasingly pressing for privatization or liquidation
of public banks. It has already achieved privatization of a major national public bank,
the Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguros, sold with support from the Bank's Financial



- 8 -
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Ln. 3558-AR); liquidation of the Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo, also supported by the Bank's FSAL; liquidation of a provincial bank (La
Rioja); and privatization/closure of three provincial banks (Chaco, Corrientes, and
Entre Rios). For further details on federal public banks, see Annex D.
24.   Adjustment in Private Banks. Adjustment in the private banking system
continued during 1989-94. The number of private banks declined from 141 in 1989 to
134 in 1994 (August). Employment dropped from 64,000 in 1989 to 58,000 in 1992
and rose back to 64,000 in 1994. Overall, private banks performed better than public
banks. Non-performing loans amounted to about 9 percent of total lending in 1994, far
less than in public banks (25 percent). Nevertheless, the average rate of return in 1994
(through November) was quite low (4 percent). Private banks benefitted from the high
spreads prevailing at the onset of the Convertibility Plan but subsequently had to adapt
to lower inflation rates and spreads and, until the end of 1994, to a declining growth of
deposits. With stabilization, private banks increasingly lent with longer terms and to a
wider client base, a trend which was abruptly interrupted by the recent events.
Effects of the Crisis
25.   As discussed above, the Argentine financial system enjoyed 3-4 years of rising
monetization, increasing bank profits and improving supervision of prudential
standards. However, just before the Mexico crisis, the financial system was losing
steam, with the growth rate of deposits dropping, and a general drift downward in the
stock market due to rising interest rates abroad and lower capital inflows. These
developments, in part, reflected a waning of the public's confidence in the economic
plan due to the appearance of a small fiscal deficit, the protracted debate on the pension
reform bill, gathering doubts about the peso's convertibility, and a sense that the
economic plan had not contributed to social equity.
26.    Early financial sector malaise surfaced in November 1994, with the bankruptcy
of a small but trusted non-bank trader and an increasingly weak bond market. A full
crisis unfolded with the December 20, 1994 devaluation in Mexico and the massive
withdrawal of foreign investors from Argentina and other Latin American countries.
These events weakened the position of the so-called wholesale banks that had
significant inventories of government securities. Fear of illiquidity of wholesale banks
and of capital losses from their security holdings, as interest rates rose, led to a
massive withdrawal of corporate and inter-bank deposits. Financial sector confidence
fell rapidly and retail deposits began to decline as well. By February 15, total deposits
had dropped some 7 percent, and the ratio of money and deposits to GDP fell from 19
to 17 percent (see graph below). By April 6, deposits had fallen by 17 percent.



PMTIO OF CeCr MO 1POdEIIT TO 0P
2213 -
21. X ilHl IIIII IIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIII Jill  .: 
WMr      ......       IIIIAIKIIIIII I1 iiii  W IT  . t l 
1  . rm   = IIIIIII  I I I .T  .H.l.  IIIL  I _'
1 sl   = xii X         X0.    11111 IZLL  ----  
12.O _                 m nr1m 
2113-
III I .WT II iI r IIIIIItTIIL f 1111
19 13  -82199
IT 13  - ~ ~ 1   MGD
27~~~~~~~~'s__. Ths agrgt fiue obcr th  widely vayn  siutin of difrn baks
reflecting depositors' flight to relative quality. The biggest losers were the wholesale
banks who suffered deposit losses of over 70 percent through mid-February, a crisis of
confidence which most cannot survive. Most of these banks are in the process of slow
liquidation, selling their assets at a discount to the prime private commnercial banks.
Cooperative banks lost a third of their deposits. Foreign banks lost some of their
oaverseas deposits but gained deposits locally. The eight leading private banks all
gained deposits, at least until recently, while private retail banks as a whole lost 21
percent of their deposits. With the exception of the major provincial bank of Buenos
Aires, all large public banks lost deposits including those of Mendoza (-22 percent) and
Cordoba (-15 percent). Overall, the relative positions of different banks are being
dramatircally transformned, with the largest private banks appearing to emerge stronger.
However, the number of weak institutions (i.e., small banks lacking economies of
scale, wholesale banks and weak provincial banks) remains large, and creates some
systemic risk.
28. CapiSl Markets Reaction. Stock and bond markets have seen dramatic drops in
prices and transaction volumes and a sharp increase in volatility. Overall, the stock
market index has fallen over 33 percent since the Mexican crisis, with the market
Price/Earnings ratio dropping from 18:1 in November 1994 to around 12:1 at the end
of February 1995, while trading volume had decreased almost two-thirds by end
January. No new equity, no Eurobond issues, and only one 90-day commercial paper



- 10 -
placement in the local markets has occurred since December 20, 1994. While several
placements (up to US$1 billion worth) of negotiable obligations are in the process of
CNV approval and preparation, it is unlikely that new issues will occur in the near
future. With trading volume low and volatility high, most new issues and portfolio
management decisions are in limbo. These trends were reflected in the market for
government treasury bills as well, which experienced a declining volume of offers and
yields rising from 7.58 percent in November 1994 to 11.6 percent in February 1995.
29.   The crisis has also increased interest rates (see Table 1). The gap between
dollar and peso prime lending rate widened.  Nominal interbank rates have hovered
around 30-35 percent since the crisis, spiking to 55 percent in early March, compared
to 6-9 percent before the Mexican devaluation.
Table 1: ARGENTINA - Annual Deposit and Lending Rates
1994-1995
Year      Month       Dollar     Peso      Prime    Prime Peso   Average
Dollar
Rate on   Rate on    Lending    Lending    Peso
Monthly    Monthly     Rate      Rate     Lending
Deposits    Deposits                        Rate
1994  November         5.8%       8.7%       8.3%      10.0%     23.5%
1994  December         6.1%       9.8%       9.8%      13.6%     30.0%
1995  January          6.5%      10.8%      11.3%      17.7%     35.0%
1995  February         7.0%      11.8%      12.1%      19.1%     45.0%
1995  March            8.0%      18.5%      20.0%      28.0%     65.0%
30.   There is much variation across banks, with the top eight banks and Banco de la
Naci6n quoting rates substantially lower than the rest of the market.
31.   Government Response.  Authorities have acted promptly to counteract
Argentina's vulnerability to negative external shocks, given the nature of the
Convertibility Plan under which Argentina's currency needs to be fully backed by
international reserves and the Central Bank has more limited resources than other
countries to confront a run against bank deposits.
32.   A Safety Net was established to address the high demand for last-resort lending
that emerged since December 20, 1994. This effort included: (i) integration of an
initial "club" of five major private banks in early January 1995; each contributed
around US$50 million to purchase illiquid wholesale bank portfolios in exchange for a
reduction in their reserve requirements; and (ii) transfer of 2 percent of the November
30, 1994 deposit base (about US$900 million) on January 20, 1995, from the banks'
reserves at the Central Bank into a special account with the Banco de la Naci6n; some



- 11 -
25 banks were required to contribute about US$790 million to this operation, the others
having suffered deposit losses since November. Banco de la Naci6n, acting as agent
for and on instructions of the Central Bank, lent the funds to banks at 16 percent
annually against collateral of bank assets and, in some, cases personal guarantees of the
owners. As this was a transfer of liquidity reserves, the contributing banks did not
receive any interest. This fund is now exhausted. On March 14, 1995, the authorities
further increased the liquidity in the financial market by authorizing commercial banks
to use 50 percent of their technical reserves to meet their legal reserve requirements.
To stem capital outflows, the authorities induced the further dollarization of the
banking system (dollar deposits by March 22, 1995 accounted for 54 percent of total
deposits). Nevertheless, between the beginning of the crisis and March 22, total
deposits in the financial system declined by about US$7 billion, most of them in peso
deposits. During this crisis, the Central Bank had to perform a delicate balancing act
between averting a run on the currency (by imposing tight liquidity), and avoiding a
banking run (by subsequently injecting liquidity), two contradictory policies for two not
unrelated risks.
33.   The Central Bank's action so far has been markedly different from past crisis
episodes, which led to strong monetary emissions and subsequent bouts of high
inflation. Eight financial entities have been suspended and one was closed after
restructuring plans were found to be inadequate. A new deposit insurance scheme has
been established to be financed by contributions of financial entities. Deposits with a
maturity below 90 days will be guaranteed up to $10,000, while deposits of more than
90 days will benefit from a guarantee of up to $20,000.
34.   Future Prospects. The outlook for the future of financial and capital markets
will be shaped by two developments. The key external developments are increases in
international interest rates and lower net capital inflows. The key internal development
includes the future course of confidence on account of fiscal and financial policies,
including reduced expenditures, increased tax collection, and the strengthening of
Argentina's battered financial institutions. Declining capital inflows will detract from
financial and capital market growth. Expectations, both locally and abroad, will be
positively affected by the support programs of the IMF, the Bank and IDB. Stronger
fiscal and financial policies will help reduce capital outflows by strengthening
confidence in the financial system. Both stock and bond markets should experience an
upturn as confidence returns. The equity market activity may revive, perhaps led by
new rounds of privatization issuance, including the government-held shares of existing
privatized companies, and new privatizations of the nuclear power projects. However,
new bond issues are not expected until interest rates fall. A slow revival of foreign
investor interest suggests a slow recovery.
35.   A major down-sizing is underway and a strengthened banking system may
emerge. Although the trend towards consolidation has taken hold before December
1994, the Mexico shock has spurred a wave of liquidations, mergers, and acquisitions.



- 12 -
Most affected will be the number of wholesale banks, cooperative banks (already down
to 31 in March 1995 from 39 in August 1994), provincial banks, and small private
banks. The key financial policies in this regard will be the Central Bank enforcement
of capital, provisioning and liquidity requirements as well as incentives for acquisition
and merger. Furthermore, as discussed below, the ongoing strain on provincial
finances and the poor financial situation of provincial banks will trigger further
privatizations or closures of these banks.
36.   Moreover, the government is undertaking steps to strengthen the capital position
of private banks, through the newly created Capitalization Trust Fund. Capitalization
of financial institutions will be closely linked to merger and acquisition transactions that
help consolidate banks into a more efficient banking system. The Bank is supporting
the government in the operational design of this fund, and is considering provision of
US$500 million in financial support.
Provincial Banks
37.   Efficiency Impact of Provincial Banks. The provincial banks' adverse effects
on financial sector efficiency are exposed by their sustained losses, non-competitive
allocation of credit, high cost of funds and excessive employment. While the face
value of provincial bank assets accounts for 25 percent of total assets of the banking
system, provincial bank employment accounts for 33 percent of total employment and
provincial bank branches account for 28 percent of total branches. As shown in Table
2, excessive provincial bank employment is evident particularly in branch personnel,
and excessive branching is indicated by the low number of accounts and borrowers per
branch. Poor credit decisions are of course manifest in the large reported of non-
performing portfolio which exceeds by far non-perfonning portfolio in other categories
of banks. Moreover, provincial bank credit allocation to inefficient activities, including
provincial governments and public provincial enterprises, reflect the lack of arms-
length relationships, thereby deflecting the supply of credit away from productive
activities.



- 13 -
Table 2: Comparisons of Efficiency of Banks
(August 1994)
Provincial    Private      Foreign        Coop
No. of banks                         28           64           31            39
No. of branches                      778         1143         364           819
Branches/institutions              27.79        17.86        11.74        21.00
No. of employees                  23,993       32,612       13,639        17,922
of which: at branches            13,834        16596        4,751        11,373
Total personnel/branch               31           29           37            22
Branch personnel/branch               18          15           13            14
Total Accounts                   127,439      468,224      146,010      207,152
Accounts/branch                      164         410          401           253
Total borrowers                  735,427    1,625,696      539,770      863,028
Borrowers/branch                    945         1422         1483          1054
38.    Confidence Impact of Provincial Banks. Provincial banks' chronic financial
weakness undermines confidence in Argentina's financial system. Although the
financial situation differs, provincial banks (the major exception being the Provincial
Bank of Buenos Aires) are correctly perceived to suffer from solvency problems
undermining their ability to navigate through a liquidity crisis. Under normal market
conditions, depositors perceive a provincial bank's inability to meet deposit obligations
as an isolated case within an otherwise healthy financial system. Under tight market
liquidity conditions, however, depositors are unable to distinguish an isolated provincial
bank condition from the general liquidity tightness. Therefore, banks with weak
fundamentals, such as provincial banks, increase spillover risks of a deposit run on
these banks.
39.   Impact of the Recent Liquidity Cisis. Provincial banks have been exposed to
more liquidity risks than other banks, with a liquidity gap (liquid liabilities minus liquid
assets) amounting to 50 percent. This liquidity gap exceeded those in other categories
of banks, including large private banks (13 percent), small private banks (11 percent),
foreign banks (1 percent) and also the very vulnerable wholesale banks (16 percent) and
cooperative banks (16 percent). Declining deposit growth and deposit withdrawals in
the aftermath of the Mexico crisis have affected provincial banks more than the banking
system as a whole. In addition, access to the interbank market has remained open only
to prime banks and was closed to provincial banks.
40.   Provincial banks have not only received liquidity assistance of US$143 million
from the BCRA but also about US$300 million from the Safety Net managed by BNA.
Currently, they are also about US$640 million short of complying with the reserve
requirements, raising their recent liquidity funding needs to US$1.1 billion. Finally,
they also have some US$529 million in deposits from provincial governments, which



- 14 -
could not be withdrawn and has thus prevented provincial governments from meeting
their budget (i.e., mainly salary) commitments.
III. PROVINCIAL BANKS AND PROVINCIAL FINANCES
41.   The provincial banks have been a major factor in provincial economic instability
in recent years, and their privatization/closure will reduce fiscal deficits and improve
fiscal management in the provinces. The main benefit would be the elimination of
provincial banks' operating losses, which accounted in 1994 for about 30 percent of the
consolidated fiscal deficit in the provinces targeted under this project. For further
details on the provinces' fiscal situation, see Annex E. Another benefit would be the
elimination of the complex cross-subsidies between the banks and the public sector,
including public enterprises, which will ultimately provide greater transparency and a
better assessment of overall provincial indebtedness. The demise of provincially-owned
banks will also limit the public sector's access to preferential financing, forcing
improved fiscal discipline. In the absence of immediate action, the fiscal costs are
likely to increase rapidly because of provincial banks' continued large operating losses.
Ultimately, bankruptcy would ensue, further raising fiscal costs as the judicial
liquidation process would yield even lower asset values.
42.   Throughout the 1980s, these banks expanded their activity, providing credit
principally to their own governments, by resorting to rediscounts from the Central
Bank (BCRA) and transfers from the public sector. Between 1985 and 1991, real
credit to the public sector increased by 200 percent, while total real credit to the
private sector fell. In most provinces, these banks have been a major source of deficit
finance for provincial governments. In 1990 for example, they provided more than 60
percent of the credit needs of provincial governments. By late 1990 BCRA was forced
to lend massive amounts of new rediscounts to prevent the collapse of several
provincial banks, due to poor loan recovery and massive over-staffing.
43.    Recently however, provincial banks have turned from financier to a major drain
on provincial finances. Lacking Central Bank rediscounts, and given financial
mismanagement and losses, provincial banks have had to rely increasingly on their
owners for financial stability. Following the Mexico crisis, provincial governments
were even forced to abstain from deposit withdrawals so as not to cause their banks to
fail.
44.    Problems in portfolio quality typically damage provincial banks' finances,
reflecting large levels of public sector lending and in some cases -private sector loans
made according to non-business criteria. As of November 1994, loans to the public
sector (including public enterprises) were equivalent to 19 percent of the total loans in
provincial banks, against only 10 percent in the overall banking system (Table 3). The
situation, however, varies significantly across provinces, ranging from 1 percent in San



- 15 -
Luis to 48 percent in Chubut, and also fluctuates over time depending on the short-term
financing needs of the provinces. In many cases, the exposure of provincial banks to
its government actually exceeds reported loans, because indebtedness is often hidden in
different accounts. For example, treasury overdrafts are recorded as other assets.
Table 3: Lending to the Public Sector by the Provincial Banks, 1994 a/
Total Public      Total Public
Loans             Loans
(in US$ Million)  (In % of Total Loans)
MCBA                         454                   33
Catamarca                     20                   27
Cordoba                      340                   21
Chubut                        94                   48
Formosa                       10                    4
Jujuy                         10                    8
Mendoza                       77                    8
Misiones                     165                   46
Rio Negro                     31                    7
Salta                         21                    5
San Juan                     126                   40
San Luis                       I                    I
Santa Cruz                    22                   10
Santa Fe                      65                    8
Santiago del Estero           19                    7
Tucuman                       16                    7
Tierra del Fuego              32                   18
TOTAL                       1502                   19
Source: Central Bank-
a/ Includes provincial administrations and public enterprises
45.    Provincial banks also perform a number of services for which they are not
remunerated. They manage the accounts of the provincial governments, collect taxes,
provide various administrative services for provincial governments, and serve a number
of developmental functions such as maintaining staff and branches to service
populations in hard-to-reach places. In exchange, they receive a number of privileges
from provincial governments, such as monopolies on financial transactions, public
deposits, tax exemptions, and provincial government guarantees on all transactions and
deposits.
Estimated Costs and Benefits
46.    In 1994, the operating losses of the provincial banks were reported at about
US$150 million. Adjusted for cash rather than accrued interest, these likely exceeded
US$450 million in the participating provinces (Table 4). Most likely, deteriorating
loan portfolios have been causing operating losses to surge following the Mexican
crisis.
47.    The privatization/closure of provincial banks would improve provincial public
finances by reducing fiscal deficits. The resulting gain will be equivalent to 30 percent



- 16 -
of their fiscal deficit in 1994. Assuming 1995-97 losses at the level of 1994 (a
conservative assumption), would raise public expenditure by US$1.4 billion over this
period. In the provinces of Formosa, Salta and Mendoza, the gain would exceed 10
percent of their annual current expenditures (Table 4).
Table 4: Operating Losses for the Provincial Banks, 1994 a/
US$Million               in % of        In % of the
Current Expenditures b/         Fiscal
Balance b/
MCBA                      -20                     -1               96
Catamarca                   6                      1                7
Cordoba                    37                      2               13
Chubut                     17                      4               15
Formosa                    75                     16              199
Jujuy                       1                      0                2
Mendoza                   136                     13               189
Misiones                   40                      7               45
Rio Negro                  34                      5               22
Salta                      72                     10               630
San Juan                    8                      1                5
San Luis                   -2                     -1               -3
Santa Cruz                 -2                      0               -5
Santa Fe                   50                      3              688
Santiago del Estero        14                      2               18
Tucuman                    12                      2                9
Tierra del Fuego           -4                     -1               -4
TOTAL                     474                      3               31
Source: Central Bank    4
a/ As of October 1994, and on an annual basis
b/ From the Non-Financial provincial public sector
(-) Is equivalent to operational surplus
48.    A crude indication of some of the benefit of privatization/closure arises from the
comparison of the discounted cash flow generated by the elimination of operating losses
with the privatization costs, indicated an overall rate of return of 39 percent in the
group of likely participating provinces.
49.    Even more significant benefits associated with the privatization/closure are
likely to accrue over time. First, fiscal adjustment will be promoted in the provinces
since private bank management will reduce subsidized or politicized lending to



- 17 -
provincial governments and public enterprises, forcing them to raise tax collection or to
cut expenditures. Second, the privatization process will imply the debt consolidation
between the banks and their respective public sector, including public enterprises.
More generally, the complex cross-subsidies existing between these public agencies are
likely to be eliminated or will become more transparent with private management.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Bank Involvement in the Financial Sector
50.   Beginning with the 1986 Bank report on the banking sector, the Bank has
maintained a longstanding dialogue with the Government on financial sector issues.
This dialogue intensified in 1989, when the Bank assisted the Government in the
drafting of the Central Bank charter, the development of organization options for the
Superintendency of Banks, and the design of action plans for public banks. With this
framework in place, the Government proceeded to institute major reforms during the
next five years, supported by several Bank operations. Under the 1991 Public Sector
Reform Technical Assistance Loan, major organizational improvements (training,
technical assistance, information systems, accounting) were carried out in the Central
Bank as well as in the Superintendency of Banks. The policy dialogue continued under
the 1993 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan which principally supported major reforms
of federal public banks such as the national development bank, the housing bank and
the national savings and insurance bank. That loan also supported further strengthening
of the regulatory environment for all banks but in particular of provincial banks. In
1994, the Bank approved a loan to support strengthening of Argentine capital markets
through establishment of a backstop facility with a companion technical assistance loan.
The Provincial Reform Loan approved by the Board earlier this year includes support
for the finalization of privatization of four provincial banks. Two of these have already
been privatized. For a summary of Bank and IFC operations in Argentina, see annexes
B and C.
Background
51.   The recent problems in Argentine financial markets have created an opportunity
to address one of the most intransigent policy issues in Argentina, the provincial banks.
Because provincial governments are autonomous and provincial banks are immune
either legally or politically from certain regulatory actions, the ability of the federal
government to achieve changes of policy in this area has been limited by the political
will of provincial governments. However, recent events in the financial sector have
converted most provincial banks into major financial burdens, since provincial
governments are legally liable for deposit withdrawals and other provincial bank
liabilities. As their resources became increasingly strained in the wake of deposit
losses and the irreversibility of the provincial banks' financial problems became clear,
an increasing number of provincial governments have seeking privatization as a solution
and have requested assistance from the federal government.



- 18 -
52.   The proposed operation is accordingly directed at assisting the federal
government in providing an orderly framework in which federal financial support for
costs associated with privatization/closure is provided subject to: (i) legislative
authorization of privatization at the provincial level; (ii) change in management; (iii)
intervention of the Superintendency of Banks; (iv) a time-bound, transparent
privatization process vetted by the Superintendency and by the Bank;.(v) orderly and
timely resolution of residual assets and liabilities; and (vi) bank closure in the event of
failed privatization. The prospect of financial support to help cover the costs incurred
in meeting provincial bank liabilities has already induced some provincial governments
to seek participation, despite the political costs of such a program in an election year.
While the proposed operation is open to any provincial bank meeting the criteria, it is
anticipated that privatization of some 15 provincial banks will be accomplished under
the loan.
Loan Objectives and Description
53.   An adjustment loan of US$ 500 million equivalent is proposed to support the
privatization or closure of up to fifteeri' provincial banks comprising about 10 percent
of total banking or 40 percent of provincial banking assets. Adjustment lending is
supported by the latest Country Assistance Strategy dated April 10, 1995 and this
operation is fully consistent with such strategy. The Government's macroeconomic and
financial sector strategy is set out in a Letter of Development Policy signed April 19,
1995 (see Annex A). The Inter-American Development Bank would provide an
additional $750 million to support the operation as well. Counterpart funds generated
by these loans would finance a Privatization Trust Fund created in February 1995 to
help finance costs related to privatization or closure. The Trust Fund's operations have
been limited to only two years to encourage rapid action in regard to privatization.
54.   The Trust Fund will provide a set of financial incentives but will leave the
initiative and management of privatization per se to the owners of provincial banks,
namely provincial governments. The Trust Fund organization will consist of a
supervisory board, with the national commercial bank (Banco de la Naci6n) acting as
financial agent. The Trust Fund supervisory board is composed of senior officials of
the Ministry of Economy, the Central Bank (Superintendency of Banks) and Banco de
la Naci6n. This lean organization has been designed to avoid creating a permanent
institution which in later years would be difficult to disband. Detailed Operational
Guidelines for the Trust Fund will contain governing policies and guidelines for bank
privatization, for management of residual assets and liabilities, for the intervention of
the Superintendency of Banks and preprivatization holding actions and closing of banks.
Privatization guidelines would establish, inter alia, that monopoly rights to manage the
provinces' finances would be limited to five years (for Role and Operations of the
Trust Fund, please refer to Annex H).
4/   dTwo more banks are being supported under the Provincial Reform Loan. See Annex G.



- 19 -
55.   The loan would be disbursed in three equal tranches of about US$167 million
equivalent and the counterpart proceeds would be deposited in the Privatization Trust
Fund. The Trust Fund would in turn make available an initial drawdown (equivalent to
one third of the bank's total allocation) to provinces which have passed legislation
authorizing privatization, which have changed bank management, and which have
subjected their bank to federal intervention, thus concretely demonstrative political will
to privatize or close. A second drawdown (up to two-thirds of the allocation) would be
disbursed only when the provincial bank has actually been privatized or closed. Should
neither privatization nor closure occur within one year, the initial drawdown would be
accelerated and would be repaid at a penalty interest in order to mitigate any tendency
of a slowdown in the provinces' resolve to privatize. Trust Fund resources would be
applied to the payment of liabilities of the provincial bank and any residual entity.
Each provincial bank would be allocated a Trust Fund loan amount on the basis of its
assets.
56.   All provincial banks determined to privatize or close, and meeting the Trust
Fund's conditionality, would be able to access Trust Fund loans. That includes the
banks of Buenos Aires, Pampa and Neuquen which, while wishing not to privatize at
this time, may reverse their political decisions at a later date. The first three provincial
banks to privatize will likely include Mendoza, Formosa, and Misiones.
Prospects for Provincial Bank Privatization
57.   Despite their financial weaknesses, most provincial banks have privatizable
business (see Annex F). Past experience with public bank privatization reveals a
variety of results. In the case of the National Development Bank and the provincial
bank of La Rioja, the banks had to be fully liquidated, as there was no business that
could be privatized into a viable concern. In contrast, the provincial banks of Chaco,
Entre Rios and Corrientes, and the national savings and insurance bank offered
privatizable segments which were sold to the private sector. Strong private sector
interest is likely in the cases of the larger banks in the provinces of Cordoba, Mendoza,
in the city of Buenos Aires, each with large deposit and lending networks, which might
attract foreign investors. While the private sector is unlikely to be interested in public
sector loans, other attractions include managing the provincial accounts, consumer
lending and commercial loans. Some investors may be attracted by the provincial
banks' names and their appeal to a provincial clientele. Significant deterrents to
privatization may include excessively large branch networks, excessive staff, and, most
importantly, unfavorable market conditions leading to oversupply of banks for sale at
attractive prices as well as liquidity constraints affecting possible purchasers.
58.   Pnvatization Methodology. Privatization will require a separation of assets and
liabilities between those which, in the context of each privatization, would be attractive
to the private sector and those which would not be. This process would be part of a
privatization plan required for access to the Fund and would be undertaken under the
supervision of the Superintendency of Banks. This process will force a substantial
downsizing and yield a privatizable bank which is likely to be only a fraction of its
predecessor (for a detailed explanation at this process, see Annex F). The



- 20 -
non-privatizable assets and liabilities would be transferred into a residual entity with
negative equity. The prompt disposal of this residual entity will require Trust Fund
monies to help pay off creditors.
59.   The objective is to achieve unconditional management control by the private
sector in all cases. To achieve this goal, provincial government will be selling at least
51 percent of their shareholdings. In most cases, it is expected that the percentage of
shares sold will be 60 percent or higher. In the case of Misiones, for example, 100
percent of the shares will be sold. In any case, the market will ultimately deterrnine
which percentage would attract a sufficient number of private buyers, since the private
sector has become sensitive to the continuing influence of the provincial governments
not only as shareholder but as the principal customer.
60.   Once privatization is completed and there is a residual entity, provincial
governments will, as next step, implement a previously prepared plan to liquidate
residual assets and liabilities within the shortest possible period but at most within one
year. Provincial governments would not be expected to create any new organization
but utilize existing branches of their provincial government, possibly supported by
consultants. Loans would most likely be auctioned off and real estate would be sold or
transferred to other government departments. Trust Fund loan funds would be used to
pay off creditors.
61.   If privatization is not successful after two attempts, provincial governments are
expected to close their respective banks and contract out banking services as needed.
Because of their precarious fiscal condition, it is not expected that provinces would
have the resources to recapitalize their banks to continue to operate under the Central
Bank capital adequacy regulations. The Central Bank would in turn force any
undercapitalized provincial bank out of the clearing system and thus effectively causing
a suspension of operations, tantamount to closure.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
62.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in the design and supervision of
adjustment operations in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in economic
and sector work. The IMF shares our concerns regarding the need to privatize
provincial banks because of the potential risks to financial sector fiscal stability. The
co-financing of the IDB for this loan is based on close working relationship in a variety
of fields, including adjustment and provincial finances (the IDB co-financed both PSRL
and Provinces I). The IFC's operations are expected to benefit from this project's aim
to strengthen the banking system.



- 21 -
Loan Amount
63.   Estimates indicate that some fifteen provincial banks--identified as potential
candidates for privatization21--require funds ranging from US$1.0 to as much as $2.0
billion to settle liabilities (net of assets) after privatization. More exact estimates,
based on market values, will have to await detailed, bank-by-bank, analyses by auditors
and financial professionals once privatization is actually under way. At this time, a
reasonable point estimate of US$1.3 billion is based on balance sheet adjustments as of
December 1994 principally for higher loan loss provisions and the inevitable early
retirements (Annex G).
64.   To meet financial needs of US$1.3 billion, the Government requests a loan of
US$500 million. An additional US$750 million is being requested from the IDB. With
this level of financing, the federal government expects be able to allow qualifying
provincial governments to meet a large share of the cost of privatization/closure.
Should costs eventually rise above $1.3 billion, all financial shortfalls would be the
responsibility of provincial governments. This additional financial burden is expected
to be managed by negotiating with creditors grace periods and extended repayment
schedules. In addition, the Central Government is supporting a wide range of
initiatives to strengthen provincial finances, with support from the Bank under
Provincial Development I and II as well as the Provincial Reform Loan. In this
context, should negotiations yield insufficient results, the Central Government will
pressure provinces to speed-up privatization of other provincially-owned enterprises and
to take any necessary additional fiscal measures of revenue increases or expenditure
reductions.
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
65.   The Argentine Republic would be the Borrower and implementation would be
shared by the Federal Ministries of Economy and Public Works; the Central Bank,
including its Superintendency of Banks: and provincial authorities. The counterpart
proceeds of disbursements would be deposited into the Privatization Trust Fund. Any
provincial government fulfilling prior conditions would be able to access this
Privatization Trust Fund. Those provincial banks, to be privatized under the recently
approved PRL, will be eligible for Trust Fund financing provided allocated loan
amounts are reduced by funds already allocated under PRL. All Privatization Trust
Fund lending would be guaranteed by co-participated revenues or other equivalent
guarantees. Participating provinces would be required to disclose all co-participated
guarantees already granted and provide evidence that additional guarantees to be
provided to the Trust Fund have been duly authorized.
66.   The Privatization Trust Fund lending rate would be based on its weighted
average borrowing rate plus a management commission for the financial agent, Banco
5/    At end-February, the major bank not willing to privatize was the Bank of the Province of
Buenos Aires.



- 22 -
de la Naci6n. All foreign exchange risks would be passed on to the provinces in full.
Interest accrued up to the point of privatization or closure would be capitalized. After
privatization/closure, all amounts drawn would be converted into a long term loan with
the same term as the foreign borrowing.
Tranche Conditions (see Annex I)
67.   Release of all Tranches would be subject to compliance with macroeconomic
conditionality satisfactory to the Bank.
68.   The First Tranche would be released once:
*     The Federal Government has issued satisfactory Operating Guidelines for
the Privatization Trust Fund. Operating Guidelines would contain the
Trust Fund's governing policies and principles for privatization, for
managing any residual assets and liabilities, for the intervention of the
Superintendency of Banks, and pre-privatization financial holding
policies, and for bank closing;
*     The Central Bank has demonstrated that the Superintendency of Banks
has appointed inspectors, acceptable in numbers and qualifications to the
Bank, to supervise the privatization process of those banks wishing to
draw from the Privatization Trust Fund.
*     At least three provincial governments/banks have signed Privatization
Trust Fund agreements in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
69.   Second and Third Tranches would be released once:
*     The Privatization Trust Fund has disbursed all counterpart proceeds of
the prior tranche.
*     External auditors have confirmed that the Privatization Trust Fund was
managed in line with its Operating Guidelines.
*     The Central Bank have designated any additional inspectors required to
supervise additional privatizations of provincial banks (for the complete
Disbursement Conditions Matrix, see Annex I).
70.   To qualify for Trust Fund loans, provincial governments would have to meet an
initial set of conditions. The most important up-front condition is for the provincial
legislature to authorize the sale of a controlling interest (in most cases at least 60
percent of the shares) to the private sector within 180 days. In addition, provincial
authorities would be required to nominate a new privatization management team to be
approved by the Superintendency of Banks. Additional up-front conditions include an
approved privatization plan, with target dates, for:



- 23 -
*      An initial diagnosis (based on external audits,"' portfolio valuation);
*      Decision on privatization strategy and on criteria on investor suitability;
*      Identification of any residual entity and strategic options for speedy and
effective liquidation within one year;
*      Finalization of bidding documents (including for contracting-out banking
services, should privatization fail);
*      Bid invitation;
*      Bid evaluation;
*      Signing of transfer contract.
71.   A cash flow statement to demonstrate that sufficient funding is available until
privatization occurs would also be required. The Superintendency of Banks would
approve both the privatization plan and the cash flow. The Superintendency of Banks
will also have the right to remove the privatization management team if, in its
judgement, performance is not adequate. Once the up-front conditions are met and the
Bank has provided its "no-objection", provincial governments would be eligible for a
first drawdown not to exceed one-third of the maximum funds allocated to each bank.
72.   The maximum funds to be allocated to each bank would be defined by bank
size, as per the table below.
Banks with Assets of:   Maximum Loan Amounts
(1) Up to $200 million      $50 million
(2) Up to $500 million      $80 million
(3) Up to $800 million     $100 million
(4) Up to $1,200 million   $160 million
(5) Above $1,201 million   $240 million
73.   A second and final drawdown, corresponding to up to two thirds of the allocated
funds would be permitted once the provincial bank has been privatized or closed and
after the Bank's "no-objection". The size of the final drawdown would be confirmed
by the financial diagnosis included in the privatization plan. To provide an incentive to
refrain from any unproductive attempt to privatize, all funds would become available in
a single drawdown if a provincial bank is closed immediately. Excluded from the final
Auditing standards in Argentina are comparable to those in developed countries.



- 24 -
drawdown financing would be all liabilities to the provincial public sector itself.
Should a province re-establish a new bank after privatization/closure, all disbursed
funds would be accelerated and become due immediately (for a tabular display, see
below all Privatization Trust Fund Drawdown Conditions).
Initial Drawdown                                    Final Drawdown
(for 1/3 of the maximum amount)                 (for up to 2/3 of the maxinum amount)
Each Provincial Bank
to provide evidence, satisfactory to  * Approval of Provincial Law authorizing sale of the
the Bank, of:                           majority of shares;
* Provincial authorities to appoint privatization
management team with approval of the
Superintendency of Banks;
* Submission of privatization plan (approved by
Superintendency of Banks) to achieve privatization
within 180 days;
* Submission of audited cash flow for period up to
privatization;
* Signing of Privatization Trust Fund Agreement;
* Submission of eligible provincial expenditures.
* Signature of transfer contract to new owner
or legal instrument authorizing closure of bank;
* Audited balance sheet of residual entity;
* Satisfactory impact on provincial finances
(i.e., debt service coverage);
* Satisfactory one-year liquidation plan; and
* Submission of eligible provincial
expenditures.
74.   Trust Fund monies would be applied as follows:
(a)       Initial drawdown (one-third of allocation):
(i)    existing provincial bank liabilities to the Central Bank and Banco
de la Naci6n for earlier support;
(ii)    provincial bank liabilities to the provincial government for private
sector deposit withdrawals after December 20, 1994; and
(iii)    privatization consultancies.
(b)    Final drawdown (up to two-thirds of allocation) to finance the payment
of liabilities of the residual entity but excluding those to the province
itself.
75.   Disbursement, Procurement, Records and Auditing. Loan proceeds would be
used to finance the CIF cost of general imports, except those on a standard negative
list. Retroactive financing would be pernitted for eligible imports as of February 16,



- 25 -
1995 (date of pre-appraisal) up to a maximum of US$100 million. Retroactive
financing is justified given that reform measures are already under way and the need to
maintain momentum in the privatization process. The Central Bank will submit
disbursement applications to the Bank and will maintain separate records and accounts.
Disbursement requests will be based on customs certificates, a procedure which was
reviewed by Bank staff and found to be satisfactory. Withdrawal applications against
customs certificates for contracts above US$10,000, but below US$10 million, would
be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Contracts for the procurement of
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or more would be awarded
through simplified international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts above a threshold of US$10 million would be subject to the
Bank's prior review. Contracts below US$5 million would be awarded using
procedures acceptable to the Bank. An audit report on the submitted import
documentation by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be contracted
within 30 days and submitted to the Bank within 60 days after disbursement of each
tranche. Audit reports would give an opinion with respect to SOEs prepared by the
Central Bank. Receipt of a satisfactory audit report of a prior tranche would be a
condition of subsequent tranche release. The loan Closing Date would be June 30,
1997.
Benefits and Risks
76.   As described earlier, the major benefits of privatization are a difficult-to-reverse
reduction of the fiscal drain on provincial finances, the consolidation of the banking
sector and a broadening in the reach of banking supervision. The loan would assist in
the privatization of up to fifteen banks representing about 10 percent of banking system
assets. Provincial finances would be improved by substantially reducing fiscal deficits
and by making possible greater financial discipline.
77.   The main risk is that neither privatization nor closure actually occurs within the
timeframe contemplated for operating the Privatization Trust Fund. The biggest hurdle
to privatization is that the current trend towards consolidation in the banking system
generates an oversupply of banks for sale and that therefore there will be few buyers
and low prices. Further, if privatization fails, provincial governments may then
hesitate to close the banks as they would be concerned about maintaining essential
banking services in their community. These risks are manageable because provincial
governments are already strongly motivated to privatize as a way to stop the fiscal
drain. However, to further reduce these risks, the loan has been designed with a set of
icentives and counter-incentives. While the provincial govermments would be
responsible for design and execution of the privatization strategy, the process would be
accompanied by the permanent intervention of the Superintendency of Banks.
Furthermore, if within one year, the province neither privatizes nor closes, all funds
borrowed from the Trust Fund will have to repaid at a penalty interest rate.
Accordingly, the risk of an open-ended outcome of no privatization and no closure is
reduced by: (i) provinces having to bear the financial burden of having to repay the
initial Trust Fund drawdown; and (ii) the Superintendency having the power to remove



- 26 -
the bank from the payment clearing system if regulatory requirements are not being
met, an action tantamount to closure.
78.   A second risk is that the liquidation of any residual entity drags on and is not
resolved speedily and/or efficiently. This risk has been reduced by requiring provinces
already during the early stages of privatization to develop options on how to best
liquidate within one year. As a condition for the final Trust Fund drawndown, an
approved plan would have to be in place identifying management, organizational
formats, financial resources and strategies. A time limit of one year would be set to
accomplish full disposal. Should privatization costs rise above current estimates--as
underestimation is a frequent occurrence--and loan resources are insufficient to cover
all liabilities, provinces would be expected to first negotiate with creditors. If
negotiations yield insufficient results additional privatization action or fiscal measures
will be undertaken.
79.   Finally, in the event that the two-year period for the Privatization Trust Fund
proves insufficient to aid in the privatization of all targeted banks, it is expected that
authorities will extend the Trust Fund period by presidential decree.
Social Impact
80.   To be successful, the program of provincial bank privatization has to be
sensitive to the particular situation faced by many of the participating provinces. These
vary considerably, as do the prospects for eventual privatization and provision of
banking services. The impacts will likely be most negatively felt in those provinces in
which the provincial bank may close entirely or see its operations reduced dramatically.
These may be among those locations with the dimmest prospects for labor absorption.
Poverty incidence varies by region, with the highest rate (40 percent) reported in the
northern provinces. As a direct result of the program, many staff out of the total
21,000 employed would be made redundant and banking services may be interrupted as
the private banks take time to absorb the markets left unserved. This process ought to
be managed so as not to be abrupt. All participating governments are extremely
conscious of the need to mitigate negative social impacts and are willing to take
necessary steps. These entail making timely redundancy payments to staff, as provided
for under local labor agreements. Estimated financing available under the program is
US$120 million for such payments. In addition, provinces are committed to ensuring
the continuous provision, by contracting out if necessary, essential fiscal services to the
public.
81.   More generally, provinces are engaged in wide processes of reform which will
lead to better prospects for sustainable development. Project support for this is coming
from the ongoing PRL and Provincial Development I and II loans. In the meantime,
the Bank, IDB, the Central Government, and provincial government have embarked
upon several imnportant social sector operations which provide irnprovements to basic
social services at the provincial level. In particular, we are developing a US$150
million Social Protection project to support poverty reduction activities in communities
in extreme poverty. A proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation project would address the



- 27 -
prospects of low-income small farmers in depressed areas to improve productivity and
incomes. These targeted projects would be complemented by broader efforts to
improve the quality of human resource investments. Working with the Bank,
moreover, the Federal Government is endeavoring to use wisely its total budget of
US$3 billion annually for some 40 social programs, most of which have targeted
beneficiary groups.
82.   Environmental Aspects. The program is not expected to have any
environmental impact.
V. RECOMMENDATION
83.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and would be consistent with the approved guidelines for Bank
support. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
By Gautam Kaji
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 20, 1995



-28 -                      ANNEX A
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
DRAFT LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(dated April 19, 1995)
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Prston:
1.    This leUler of Development Policy describes the economic reform program  of the
Argentine Govenment as well as specific .steps to deepen further the reforms in the financial
sector. To implement these reforms, the Government requests continued financial assistance
from the World Bank. The Bank's assistance is particularly needed at this juncture, as a result
of the adverse impact that external developments, including the disTuption of Mexico's
economy, have had on capital inflows and the stability of the domestic financial sector. We
would like to take this opportunity to also present the macroeconomic framework which
complements the reform program.
1. Macroeconomic Framework
2.    Price stability and sustained growth remain the centerpieces of the Government's
economic program. The Government has made an important progress in thcse fields since
1991. To eliminate fiscal deficits that were fueling inflation, the Government initiated
profound structural reforms. As a result, monthly price increases dropped from ovcr 30
percent at the beginning of 1991 to international rates in the second semester of 1993.
Inflation during 1994 was only 3.9 percent.
3.    By laying the basis for price stability, the Government has charted an agenda for the
future with the following objectives:
the consolidation of stability through strict compliance with Law N' 23928 of
March 27. 1991 (the Convcrtibility Law), the preservation of fiscal equilibrium and the



- 29-                      ANNEX A
operation of a market economy with dcregulated and unresu-icted competitive markets,
and regulation by the state of non-competitive markets;
*     Lhe strengthening of economic growth (annual GDP growth ratcs increased from
0.1 percent in 1990 to an average of 7.4 percent during 1991-1994) througlh increased
levels of savings, investment, productivity, privatization of public enterprises, pnrvate
sector development and exports, and an intensification of trade, financial and
technological integration of the Argentine economy into world markets; and
*     the achievement of higher levels of employment and a more equitable
distribution of income, both at a persona) and regional basis, through consolidation of
economic stability and growth, substantially increased public investment in human
resource development and social services, and measures to promote regional
development.
4.    Sustained economic recovery and improvements in welfare will continue to be achieved
by undertaking lasting structural reforms in the public sector, improvement in national savings,
and policy reforms that would keep on fostering private sector activity through gains in
productivity, lower domestic taxes, and factor market improvements. To ensure that the
private sector remains the leading expansionary force in the economy, the Government is
committed to maintain flexible and open markets free of domestic regulations and ma*jor
external trade barriers, and with a strong financial sector to improve intermediation. The
Government's program of market reforms covers the following areas:
(a) Open market economy: The government has totally eliminated controls on
prices, wages, interest rates, and capital flows as well as a complex network of
subsidies and implicit taxes. The Government is commitled to maintain such policies.
Additionally, to facilitate more rational allocation of resources in the economy, and
enhance intenational competitiveness through the reduction of production costs and
improvement of incentives for productive investment, the Government is committed to
promote structural reforms by introducing and supporting legislation for:  (a)
liberalizing labor markets; (b) streamlining bankruptcy legislation; (c) reforming the
health insurance cooperatives; and (d) encouraging the reform of provincial finances,
including the reduction of inefficient taxes.
(b) Trade Librralization: The Government has made rapid strides towards
opening the economy, both in terms of flows of trade, capital, and technology. Taking
into account recent measures, by mid 1993 the import tariff structure has been
simplified and the average tariff rate (including the statistical tax) was lowered to
approximately 18 perccnt.  Export taxes have been nearly eliminated, and most
quantitative restrictions and other procedures that slowed the entry of trade, capital and
technology have been removed. The Government will keep the economy open to
international competition and will keep Argentina's antidumping provisions in line with
thc respective GATT code. Moreover, the MERCOSUR treaty came into full cffect in



-30                       ANNEX A
January 1995.  As specified in the Trcaty of Asunci6n, the Governmcnt climinatr-
most inLxa-MERCOSUR tariffs, dropped all other intra-market trade harriers, and
estAblished a common external tariff covering 85 percent of the positons in January
1995.
(c) Financial Sector Reform.  Financial sector reforms have been aimed at
increasing financial deepening and the efficiency of financial intermediation.
Following interest rate liberalization in 1987 and the elimination of directed credit by
the Central Bank, the Government's strategy has been to increase depositor's and
investor's confidence.  Price stabilization, liberalized interest rates, and Lighter
regulation and enforcement of liquidity, capital adequacy and provisioning
requirements werc the chief reforms that permitted financial deepening (M4) to increase
from.a low of 5 percent of GDP in 1990 to 19 percent in 1994. Similarly, capital
markct reforms, including the elimination of transaction taxcs on securities trading and
improvements in the regulation of public offerings encouraged the developmcnt of a
major emerging market.  Banks and non-bank corporations raised an impressive
US$9.9 billion in equity issues and registered USS6.5 billion in bond issues during
1990-1993. The Government is committed to maintain liberalized interest rates, to
refrain from directing credit allocation of rinancial institutions, and to further
strengthen banking regulation and supervision.
-.    In the aftermath of the Mexico crisis, the Government's immediate aim is to sustain
past achievements through deepening reforms.  The Government has already taken far-
reaching steps that will consolidate stability and deflect the spillover effects from the crisis.
Foremost among these changes are a deepening of public and financial sector reforms. These
will strengthen confidence in sovereign debt, the financial sector, and the sustainability of the
Convertibility Law. The following sections discuss these reforms as well as upcoming steps of
the reform program.
nI. Public Sector Finances
The Federal Government
6.    The Governmcnt has undertaken a major effort to improve revenues through the
implemenLation of a much-broader and uniform VAT. The Government is also committed to
further improve the efficiency of the tax administration by improving subsLantially audils and
controls.   The increased reliance on more efficient taxes will continue allowing the
Govcrnment to elimninate or reduce distortionary taxes, while observing the fiscal targets
established in paragraphs 8 and 18. The Govemment obtained Congress approval of a law
broadening the coverage of the personal assets tax, submicLed to Congress legislation to further
rcstructure the public sector, and limit expenditures to the social security system.



7.    The Government believes that the impact on Argentina of the external shock Ihat is
affecting Latin America will be restrained and transitory in nature, as the fundarncntals of the
economy remain strong. The reform process is deeply rooted, fiscal and monetary policies arc
sound and the country's medium term prospects have been strengthened. Exports are rising
and investment increased by 18 percent in 1994. Nevertheless, the Govemment recognizes
that the international situation remains unsetted and that the declinc in privatc capital inflows
is likely to reduce GDP growth. The Government has recast its fiscal program lor 1995 so as
to withstand a reduction in capital inflows and continue to service its maturing obligalions.
8.    The 1995 budget was drawn up in the framework of a decline in the ratio of public
expenditure to GDP and a strong cffort to reduce tax evasion. This budget also incorporated
the government's intention to further rationalize thc national administration, including the
privaLi2ation of nuclear power stations. Fiscal policies have been adjusted to generate an
overall surplus in the national non-financial public sector (excluding provinces) of Arg$2
billion, a surplus that will be used to amortize public debt. In addition, the Government
expects to raise US$2.4 billion during 1995 from privaLization, including sales of the
Government's remaining holdings in a number of already privatized enterprises and the sale of
petrochemical plants and hydroelectrical and nuclear power plants. The fiscal measures
announced by the Government in late February and Mid-March 1995 will yield some ArgS6.3
billion (2 percent of GDP) in the remainder of 1995, or Arg$8S5 (2.75 percent of GDP) billion
on an annual basis. These measures were presented by the executivc and approved by Congress
in only twvo weeks, a clear signal of decisiveness and political consensus. The measures
included:
R.           expenditure cuts, including reductions in salaries of public employe,s
earning $2,000 a month or more, with an expected yield of ArgSL.O billion in
the remainder of 1995;
b.           a temporary increase (to be excluded from  revenue-sharing witl the
provinces) of 3 percentage points to 21 percent in the Value Added Tax. rate
with an expected yield of ArgS2.2 billion;
c.           import tariff increases with an expected yield of Arg$0. 7 billion;
d.           a partial roll-back of certain previous reductions in social security
contributions for agriculture, industry, and tourism, coupled with a lowering of
contribution rates for the services sector, with an expected net yield of ArgS0.4
billion; and
e.           a broadening of the base of the VAT and income taxes, a broadening of
the base and lowering of the rate of the wealth tax, new facilitics for
regularizing tax arrears, and a number of smaller measurcs, largely in the area
of social sccurity, with an expected overall yield of Arg$2.0 hillion for 1995.



- 3-                         ANNEX A
If required by circumstances, the Govcrnment will adopt further expenditurc rTsCt-ains to
achieve the basic principle of maintaining equilibrium in Lhe public finances.
9.    The government's program for 1995 will continue and deepen structural reforms. The
Congress is presently considering three important laws which (i) modify the regulations on
collectivc bargaining contracLs and associated employment risks, thereby improving the
flexibility in the labor market and reducing labor costs; and (ii) govern the reorganization of
enterprises in bankruptcy proceedings. The newly approved Social Security Solidarity Law,
will reestablish maximum limits for all beneficiaries, eliminatc the automatic adjustment of
benefits, apply the provisions of the Convertibility Law to the determination of pensioners, and
modify the associated legal proceedings. It will also allow the establishment of a limit, that
will decline as the number of pensions under the former social security system diminishes, on
pension outlays, which have been an important cause of macroeconomic instability in recent
years. The program of provincial reforms discussed below should reduce distortions in the tax
system and result in a permanenr reduction in the size of the public sector that will improve the
allocation of resources and increase overall economic efficiency. These and other reforms,
together with the progressive extension of institutional changes to all governmental
jurisdictions, will help to further strengthen the profound institutional transformation of our
countzy.
The Provincial Governments
10.   Throughout the 1980s, deficits generated by provincial governments were major
contributors to the chronic instability of the Argentine public sector. Over the last three years,
fiscal adjustinent, essential to the recovery of the economy, has occurred snainly at the federal
level. The increase in provincial government expenditures has exceeded the rise in revenucs
received from the Federal Treasury under the revenue sharing arrangements andi from their
own resources, resulting in operational primary deficits in the provinces of about 0.7 percent
of GDP in 1993 and 1994. At the same time that provincial governmcnts have lagged in
making necessary fiscal adjustment, their role within the economy has grown as the result of
the decentralization of many federal functions, notably secondary education and public health.
Provinces are now the major providers of core public services in health, education, security,
water and sanitation, electricity, and other infrastructure. However, most provinces are ill
prepared to fulfill their increasingly important role, with negative implications for future
economic growth and meeting the needs of the poor.
!I.   A  major adjustment of provincial finances is expected for 1995, for sources of
provincial delicit financing are now exhausted.  Provincial deficits in 1993 and 1994 were



- 33-                      ANNEX A
largely financed by the regularization of dcebs owed by the National Administralion to the
provinces, by their sharc of the proceeds from the sale of YPF, and in 1994 by issues of
Treasury bonds amounting to ARGSO.6 billion, secured by shared revenues. These sources
are now exhausted. In view of the current situation, the Treasury will issue no bonds from
now onwards on behalf of, or directed to the provinces and the Central Bank will not approve
any additional domestic borrowing by the provinces, including loans guaranteed by shared
revenues. Issues of debt for regularization of federal arrears will be limited to an amount that
does not excecd rcductionLs in outstanding debt via the new tax moratorium, discharged wiLh
public bonds, and debt-equity swaps from privatizations in excess of the USS2.4 billion
mentioned above (para. 8).
12.   To assist in the adjustment of provincial finances, tbe Federal Government launched in
the early 1990s a concerted efort to regularize the transfer of co-participated 1ederal revenues,
reducc unconditional discrctionary transfers that reward poor fiscal performers, improve local
resource mobilization, modernize and downsize public administration, improve the provision
of social services in health and education, assume responsibility for, and reform, provincial
social security systems, privatize or close inefficient public enterprises, eliminate Central Bank
rediscounts, promote privatization of provincial banks, and more generally improve the
efficiency of allocation of resources in the provincial public sector.
13.   To attain these objectives, the Federal Government's strategy for provincial reforms is
based on: (a) the Transformation Fund approved in April 1993; (b) the 'Fiscal Pact' signed
on August 1993; (c) the Provincial Development Trust Fund (discussed in Section Jll).
14.   The Transformation Fund. ln April 1993, a Transformation Fund funded chiefly by
the World Bank was established to finance structural adjustment measures in the provinces,
funded, inter alia, by further privatizations at the federal level. To have access to the
Transformation Fund, adjusting provinces must enter into an agreement with the Ministry of
Interior taking measures aiming at: (a) improvements in local resource mobilization; (b)
improvements in the efficiency of cxpenditures; and (c) reduction in the size of thc provincial
banking sector.                                                               %
15.   Fiscal Pact. In August 1993, the Federal Government proposed a "Fiscal Pact",
which principally calls for reforms in provincial tax systems to reduce producer costs, and
increase local tax revenues, consistent with the earlier proposed Transformation Fund. In
return, the Federal Govenment agreed to increase minimum  co-participated trans{ters,
postpone, and possibly forego, certain' provincial debt obligations, and take over responsibility
for funding provincial social security systems.
16.   To reduce tax and other regulatory distortions and improve the fiscal situaLion and
performance of the provinces, the Federal Government, in context of the 1993 'Fiscal Pact",
is seeking from provinces to:



-34-                        ANNEX A
a.           substitutc the turnover tax by a consumption tax in order to reduce the
cascading nature of the provincial turnover tax
h.           eliminate the highly distortionary provincial starnp tax;
c.           reduce property taxes to 1.2 percent for rural properties, 1.35 percent
for semi-rural properties, and 1.5 percent for urban properties. The maximum
fiscal value of properties is fixed at 80 percent of their market value.
d.           eliminate provincial labor, financial, and energy taxes;
e.           use co-participating transfer exceeding an agreed amount, to cancel debt
obligations, finance investments, or provincial adjustment programs thal hase
been approved by lhe national government;
f.           intensify tax collection and control, with provinces adopting a uniform
system of tax reporling and collection, as developed by the national DGI; and
g.           deregulate professional activities, eliminate restrictions on wholesale and
retail sales, deregulate further the transport sector, and make compatible federal
and provincial regulations of the medicine and food markets.
17.   In the context of the Fiscal Pact, the Federal Government has the obligation to accept
the transfer of provincial social security systems, and harmonize contributions and pensions
with the newly approved national social security  system.   Additionally, the Federal
Government will support the privatization of public enterprises, and reduce Lhe role of
provincial banks through privatization of ownership and control..
Consolidated Public Finances
18.   To sustain low levels of inflation, and the stability of the financial system, thc federal
authorities are committed to seek a consolidated (including provinces) public sector fiscal
balance or surplus, excluding privatization revenues, over the 1995-97 period.
19.   To further strengthen fiscal accountability at the provincial level, the redera
Government by end of 1995 will scek to standardize budgetary reporting from all provinces,
including both current and capital expenditures, and their financing, according to the principles
contained in Law of Financial Management and Performance Control (Law N' 24.156).
Standardized provincial financial statements when available will be made publicly availahle by
the I;ederal Government, which will also present on an annual basis the financial condition of
the consolidated public sector.



-35-                       ANNEX A
Ill. The Financial Sector
20.   Argentina's financial sector includes 30 public banks, mostly provincial banks, about
30 foreign owned banks, some 30 or so cooperatives, and about 70 private banks. There arc
significant differences in size, with the top 20 banks accounting for about 60 perccnt o1'
deposits. There are major differences in profitability, with the provincial banks showing the
lowest rates of return. Differences in profitability are largely due to differences in costs and
credit policies. Small banks and provincial banks tend to have higher costs and public banks
tend to have a higher non-performing portfolio. Low profitability in several banks has
generated a consolidation process in the banking system that has taken place for several years,
with several banks being liquidated and others being merged or acquired to form stronger
institutions. The Government believes that privatization of public commercial banks and
consolidation will be healthy for the banking system, by enhancing efficiency and financial
soundness. Nevcrtheless, the Government will remain in control of Banco de la Nacidn
Argentina to be able to meet unexpected financial needs.  In the longer term, when
stabilization is frmly established, this position could be reconsidered. The policies described
below will implement an orderly process of privatization of provincial banks and absorption or
liquidation of the weaker institutions that contributes to strengthen confidence in the banking
system.
21.   These policies are particularly urgent in view of recent events in international capital
narkets. Argentina's financial and capital markets suffered a major setback as a result of the
disruption of Mexico's economy in latc 1994. The spillover effects on depositor's and
investor's confidence led to a 20 percent decline in hank deposits between December 20, 1994
and March 21, 1995, to a standstill in corporate bond issues and to wide swings in the stock
market. The outflow of deposits led to sharp increases in interest rates, with prime rates rising
to 33 percent in U.S. doUars and 49 percent in Argentinc pesos in mid-March (increases of 25-
33 percentage points since December), and call money rates which at times reached over 70
percent. Despite progress achieved in raising the capital adequacy of financial instiptions,
some institutions in certain segments of the banking system, including small wholesale banks,
credit cooperatives, and provincial banks, remained too weak to withstand the loss of depositor
confidence. A combination of illiquidity and loan default in these banks has now paved the
way for a major restructuring of the banking system, including privatization of provincial
banks and consolidation of private banks.
22.   To help banks meet deposit losses, the Central Bank created somc ARGS5.8 billion in
additional liquidity, through lowering reserve requirements in several smges, creating a facility
for assisting distressed banks through Banco de la Naci6n, and exLending swapxs and
rediscounts. Average reserve holdings (including cash-in-vault) declined from 21 percent at
end-Deceinber 1994 to about 14 percent in mid-Marcb 1995. About ArgS4 billion in liquidity
were provided through these reductions. To fund the facility managed by Banco de Ia NaciSn,
the Central Bank assigned 2 percentage points of reserve requirements (equivalent to about



- 36 -                    ANNEX A
Arg$800 million in additional liquidity). Finally, additional liquidity of Arg$l billion has
becn supplied Lhrough Central Bank swaps and rediscounts. Liquidity assistance through
Central Bank rediscounts was leveraged by amending the Central Bank's Charter to allow the
Central Bank to extend rediscounts for periods exceeding 30 days and for amounts in exccss of
each commercial bank's net worth. All liquidity assistance has been extended within the
constraints imposed by the Convertibility Law.
23.   While the liquidity package aborted a deeper crisis, it does not address the stmctural
maladies of the banking system. The Government's aim is to ensure that commercial banks
will be stronger than they have been to withstand the shocks that may come from time to time
as a result of external events.  The recent crises prompts a unique opportunity for a
commercial bank restructuring program that strengthens confidence in the system.
24.   To restructure the banking system, the Government will implement: (i) a trust fund to
privatize provincial banks and (ii) a trust fund to assist in the restructuring of private banks.
Tlhe Governmcat expects to finance these funds with new loans from the World Bank, IDB,
and EXIMBANK of Japan, with bonds (Bonos Argenuinos) in the amount of $2 billion being
floated in the domestic markcet and abroad, and possibly with bridge loans obtained through
pledging YPF shares. The authorities have earmarked these rcsources to finance privatization
of provincial banks and restructuring of private banks. None of these resources will he used to
finance any olher public sector operations or to mct liquidity needs of the banking system.
The liquidity needs of the banking system will continue to be financed by the Central Bank
swap and rediscount facilities within the constaints of those facilities and of the Convertibility
Law.
Provincial Bank Privatization
25.   One central objective of the Government's financial sector restructuring policy program
is to achieve privatizaLion of provincial banks. It is the policy of the Government to encourage
provincial governments to sell all of their shareholdings in provincial banks, if possible. ' In all
cases, the percentage sold to the private sector will cxceed 51 percent. In most cases this
percentagc will not fall below 60 percent to assure reasonable robustness of the privatization as
provincial governments will continue to exercise added influcnce by virtue of remaining the
most important customer in many cases.
26. PrivatizaLion will be implemented through the Provincial Development Trust Fund (Fondo
para el Desarrollo Provincial). This fund wiUl extend adjustment loans to provinces or
provincial banks that agree to scll a majority share and transfer lull control of their banks to
private shareholders. The timetable for privatization of provincial banks cannot he specified as
it depends on sovereign provincial decisions.  Nevcrtheless, given the incentives to be
provided by the Provincial Development Trust Fund, the Government expects that some fifteen
provincial banks will bc privatized within the next two years.  The authorities have



- 37 -                     ANNEX A
understandably set a two ycar limit for the Provincial Development Trust Fund which appears
desirable and achievable. However, should the envisaged limit prove to be insu1ficient to
complete the privatization of all targeted provincial banks, the Trust Fund's operations would
be extended appropriately. The first three provinces to privatize their banks are likely to
include Mendoza, Misiones and Formosa.
27.   The Provincial Development Trust Fund will carefully review privatization plans which
include monopoly arrangements for newly privatized banks to manage the finances of thc
provinces. if such arrangements are contemplated, these should bc extended for a maximum
ot three to five years and their pricing should be part of the bidding process.
28.   Privatization will address the long-standing poor performance of provincial hanks,
which undermined financial sector efficiency and made fiscal balance more difficult.
Accounting for 2.5% of assets in the banking system, these banks not only have higher costs of
operation, but also have followed imprudent lending policies. These have tramslated into
losses to provincial governments, further undermining their own very poor financial
performance. Further, slower overall deposit growth in 1994 and major deposit withdrawals
during January-March 1995 severely undermined their liquidity positions.
29.   Through privatization it is expected that the newly emerging private banks will focus
on profit maximization and financial soundness and that the Central Bank supervision and
enforcement of liquidity, capital adequacy, and provisioning requirements for thcse banks will
be more effective. The newly privatized banks will he subject to the regulatory framework
established by the Superintendency of Financial Entities, which will have the power to close
the privaLized banks. Stronger management and supervision of provincial banks will reduce
the risk that these banks generate systemic runs on bank deposits. Stronger supervision will bc
supported by continuing improvements of the regulatory framework and institutional
development of the Superintendency of Financial Entities, which will continuc to seek
technical assistance as needed. Furthermore, privatization will improve provincial finances by
eliminating the continuing losses that provincial bank generate.
30.   If privatization does not matcrialize and provincial authorities do not act on cloure, the
Central Bank will promptly (within one year) apply sanctions, including withdrawal of the
provincial bank from the clearing mechanism, to provincial banks that do not meet required
liquidity or capital ratios. Furthermore, the Central Bank will not extend operating licenses to
new provincial government banks.  PrivaUzation or closure is expected to bring about a
downsizing as only a limited share of assets and liabilities is likely to he acquired by the
private sector. All non-privatizable assets and liabilities would be translerred to a residual
entity which the provincial governments would liquidate. Special attention will be given to the
timely and efficient disposal of any residual assets and liabilities. Provincial Governments will
he requested to define -specific additional financing plans, should the assigned financing (para.
24) be insufficient to cover all residual liabilities.



- 38 -                     ANNEX A
Private Bank Recapitalization
31.   Another central objective of the Government's financial sector restucturing policy
program  is to strengthen the capital position of private banks.  Recapitalization will he
achieved through the newly created Capitalization Trust Fund   (Fondo Fiduciario de
Capiralfwci6n). Capitalization of financial institutions will be closely linked to merger and
acquisition transactions that help consolidate banks into a more efficient banking system. The
fund will be liquidated following implementation of its objectives or two years aftcr its
establishment, whichever comes first.
32.   The private bank rccapitalization program will assist in the ongoing consolidation of
Argentina's highly fragmented banking system. Only 20 of Argentina's 100 or so private
commercial and cooperative banks have assets above ArgS250 million and only 6 banks have
asses in excess of ArgSl billion. Consolidation had already begun before the current crisis
and was initially triggered by declining deposit growth and lower intermediation spreads. It is
now being accelerated by liquidity and solvency problems of the smaller banks caused by
investor reallocation of deposits to the larger and bettcr hanks. Many cooperatives have begun
consolidating through mergers and mosL wholesale banks, which have becn selling thcir assets
to prime private commercial banks, are unlikely to survive unless acquired by other hanks.
The Government has set up the Capitalization Trust Fund to implement an orderly down-sizing
capitalization of the banking sector without creating further crises of confidence. The fund
will support mergers and acquisitions that result in stronger banks and the Central Bank will
close remaining banks that do not meet required liquidity and solvency ratios.
33.   To provide further protection, the Law of Financial Entities has been changed to allow
that the Central Bank establish a private deposit insurance system. The system would be
providing limited coverage per person per institution up to a sum of $20,000. The Fund will
be established with mandatory contributions from all financial insttutions. Contributions
would be different across banks according to risk ratings assigned by the Superintendency. In
addition, the government has strengthencd the protection provided by article 48 of the Law of
Financial Entities. The new provision assigns the total amounts deposited at the Central Bank
under reserve requirements to cover deposits up to $5,000 per person.
34.   It remains the Government's policy to revoke the operating license ol a financial
institution that fails to meet liquidity and capital requirements. In defense of depositors, [he
government has allowed the Central Bank to restructure a failing financial institution prior to
revoking its license. Two instruments are provided. One allows the Central Bank to mandate
reductions or increasms of the institution's capital as well as the sale of equity shares to other
authorized investors or shareholders. The other allows the Central Bank to exclude assets and
liabilitics 1rom a financial institution to transfer them to another institution and lo approvc
proposals to match the maturities of asscts and liabilities of both financial institutions.



- 39 -                    ANNEX A
IV. Monetary Policy
35.   Monetary policy will continue to be governed by the Convertibility Law, which
rcquires full backing of the monctary base with international reserves. According to the law,
U.S. dollar-denominated Governmeni bonds held by the Central Bank can he used to cover up
to 20 percent (33 percent in emergency sitwations) of the monetary base. The Government is
commiucd to have policies and programs under implementation which are fully consistent with
the Convertibility Law. Consistent with the underpinnings of the Convertibility Law, credit
expansion by the Central Bank to the public sector and the financial sector will he limited in
accordance with the above mentioned Central Bank Law.
36.   The Government is confident that with the measures that have been taken to .trengthen
fiscal and financial policies - and the support of the IMF, the World Bank, the IDB, and other
institutions - confidence will bc restored and capital outflows reversed, strengthcning bank
liquidity. During the remaindcr of the year (April-December). broad money is expected to
recover by around 18.5 percent, raising the ratio of M4 to GDP to 20.4 percent by the end of
the year, approximately the level at the end of 1994. In this context, the Central Bank during
the balance of the ycar expects to reduce outstanding swaps and rediscounts, and gradually
restore legal reserve requiremens so as to recover an adequate margin of liquidity, which
would be reflected in a recovery in its holdings of gross international reserves. It is expected
that the recent measure (March 10, 1995) allowing banks to bold part of the reserve
requirements in the form of cash-in-vault will be reversed partly by end-June, and fully by
end-November.
11. WORLD BANK SUPPORT
37.   The above presentation demonstrates the depth of the Government's overall public
sector and financial sector reform  programs.  The Government believes that financial
assistance from the World Bank is essential to implement financial sector structural ,cforms.
Implementation of the proposed measures would improve the fiscal balance of the provincial
governments and confidence in the fnancial sector, thereby reducing threats to macroeconomic
stability.
Sincerely, yours,
A//  t i/'//'
Domingo Felipe Cavallo
Minister of -UMnomy



- 40 -
ANNEX B
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31. 1996)
(US million)
Loan     Fiscal                                                 AMOUNT (las    UNDISBURSED
Number  Year      Borrower    Purpose                           cancalationsl
Fuy disbursed bane (421                                               5,033.3          0.0
of which SAL/SECALJDebt Reduction loans:
2676     19"      Argentin    Aricuture Sector           360.0
2815     1957    Argentina    Trad Polcy                 4ff.0
2996     198    Agentin       Trade Policy "1            300.0
3291     1991     Argentinr    Public Enterprie Reform   300.0
3394     1992    Argentin     Public Sector Reform       326.0
3556     1993    Argentine    DDSR Support               450.0
3558     1993    Argontine    Fhnnciad Sector Adjustment   400.0
2641     1956    Aroentinr    Water Supply                              44.8           8.5
2864     1987    Armentinc    Power Oistribution                       276.0         84.9
2920     1958    Arogntina    Municipal Devolopment                    120.0          10.1
2954     1959    Argentine    Social Sector                             23.0          0.1
3280     1991     Argentine    Provincial Development                  200.0         141.1
3281     1991     Argentina    Water Supplv                            100.0         92.8
3292     1991     Argentina    PEREL                                    23.0           1.3
3297     1991     Argentina    Agricuttura Services                     33.6          13.9
3362     1991     Argentina    Pub Sectr Refom T.A.                     23.0          7.9
3460     1992    Argentina    Tax Administration if                     20.0          4.6
3520     1993    Aroentina    YacVrata 1l                              300.0         28.1
3521     1993    Argentina    Flood Rehab                              170.0         62.7
*3558    1993    Aigenha    Pub Enteeri.a Rof U                        300.0         0.03
3611     1993    Argentina    Road Maintenance & Rehab                 340.0        245.8
3643     1994    Argentina    Maternal & Chld Hoceth                   100.0         88.4
3709 1/  1994    Argentina    Capital Markets                          6.0          500.0
3710     1994    Argentina    Capital Markets TA                         8.5           7.8
3794 21  1996    Arogntina    S condwy Education 1                     190.0         190.0
038      1395    Argendna    Provinc  Refofm                            300.0        240.0
3860 21  1996    Argentina    Municipal Dvelopment II                   210.0        210.0
TOTAL                                                                8,320.0
of which has been reaid                                              2,481.8
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                                                6,838.2
AMOUNT SOLD                                                             12.5
of which has bean repaid                                                12.8
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                                       5,825.4
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                                  1 93e 0
*Dburairg SECAL. SAL or Debt Redu1ton Le
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Not yet signed.
10-Apr.96



- 41 -
ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
a of Mreh 31 1905
Origis Oow Comnmemt              HeEd  Held by  u* med
FsCal Yew                                                              IFC   IFC    Pvahi-              by   P i-  Ondudig
Commitud           Obligor                     Type of Buakiesa        Loan Equty  pants   ToWJ         IFC   _)    PalPanb)
190/95              Acindar SA.                Stel Product             27.94      -    20.73    48.67   25.00      -          15.00
1960             a  Papelera Rio Parana SA     Pulp and Paper            3.00      -       -      3.00     -        -
1961             a/ Fades SA.                  Motor Veh. & Accoerias    1.23      -     0.28     1.50     -        -            -
1962             ad PasaSAJC                   PetochemicAa              3.05      -       -      3.05      -
1965/72          ./ ColulowArgentina           PulpandPaper              825       -     4.25    12.50      -
196w            an  EditorialCodexSA,          Printing andPublishing     .00    1.60    0.40     7.00     -
1969/75          a/ DalrninsSidercaSAIC         ron andSle              14.76      -     2.25    1700       -
1971173          a/ CalernAvellaredsSA.         Cemnt                    5.50      -       -      550       -
1977/84/66/88       AlpargatasSAIC             TextilesandShoea         62.93    5.00   36.50   10443   34.22      29.00         -
1977/85          a/ SoyoxSA                    Foodand Food Process     21 00      -       -     21.00     -        -
1978/81//92/87/93/M4   Jua Min . SA            Comnt M400                          -    67.50   111.50    9.51     9.29
1978185/87/88/91   a  MasuhSA.                 Pulp and paper           25.AS    4.25    3.00    32.90     -        -            _
1979/8287/92     a  Ipako SA.                  Petrochemicals           21.00    1.15    9.00    31.15     -        -            -
1979/83/64       a/ Alpaca SA.                 Food&FoodProceu           5.20    1.61      -      6.81     -        -
1984/88             Petoquimica CuyoSA         Chemicals &Petoctem.    21.00    4.00   21.09    46.09    3.52      4.25
1980            ad AinorSA.                    Chemicals                 7.00    1.00      -      8.00     -        -            -
19e8                RopanaaSadicar             Capil Mrkets                -     0.05      -      0.05    0.05      -            -
1986/87             Sadicar                    Capitnl Markets             -     2.00     -       2.00    0.43      -            -
1986                ROB-Cattorini              Geral  nutctwing            -       -       -      0.00    0.16      -            -
1986                ROB-Bonvenuto              Food & agribusiness         -       -      -       0.00     -        -            -
1986                ROB-doldt                  Timbwr pulppaper            -       -       -      0.00     -        -            -
1918                ROB-Clave Pleat            Gnral manufactuing          -       -       -      0.00     -        -            -
1988                ROB-Cuyo                   Geral mnuhctwing            -       -       -      0.00     -        -            -
1986                ROB-GLvernbt               Indust srvies               -       -       -      0.00     -        -            -
188                ROB-Kilukol                Cement                      -       -       -      0.00     -        -            -
1986                ROB-Labelor                Food & agribusinee          -       -       -      0.00     -        -            -
1986                ROB-Longvie                Geeal manuhiaxing           -       -      -       0.00    0.90      -            -
1986                ROB-Plla                   Genral nmnutcl,hhg          -       -      -       0.00    0.19      -           -
1986                ROB-Sudamerlcaa            Indusftril equipment        -       -      -       0.00    0.21      -           -
1988                ROB-StUrsula               Food &agrbuainew            -       -      -       0.00     -        -            -
1988                ROB-Stani                  Food &agrhuaina             -       -      -       0.00     -        -           -
1986                ROB-Tage                   Industri srvices            -       -      -       0.00     -        -            -
1986                ROB-Diarbo                 Tmbr, pulp apsper           -       -      -       0.00    0.09      -           -
i986                ROB-Piea                   Mining                      -       -      -       0.00    0.06
19"6/89/91/95       Banco Robert SA            Capitl Maklet            48.00      -       -     48.00   20.00
1987            ad Gwoaglio y Zorraquin        Genel Mamnudacting       13.00      -      -      13.00     -
1987190             Hidr Oil                   Crud. Petrol. & NaL Gms    80.00    -    27.60   107.60    0.38      -           -
1987/90/91          Trnminal 6 SA              Port FacIIies            12.60    0.00    0.00    12.50    5.00
1948            a*  AstraCAPSALIndwro          Energy                   12.38      -      -      12.38     -
1988             ad BridaSA.P.l.C.             Energy                   20.63      -      -      20.63
198s                ArcorSAlC                  Geral4Manutactxing       12.00      -      -      12.00    1.00      -           -
1988                BGN-Colbrtax               Tdile                       -       -      -       0.00    0.33      -           -
1988                BGN-Efsollca               Groal Minumcublg            -       -       -      0.00     -
1988                BGN-lnterpack              Timber, pulpApawr           -       -       -      0.00    0.S0      -           -
1988                BGN-Noroos b               Food&agribusle_             -       -      -       0.00    0.17      -           -
1988                BGN-Cilaa                  Tealdee                     -       -      -       0.00    0.07      -           -
1988                BGN-Moldesda               Timber-pulpapaper           -       -      -       0.00    0.33
1988                BGN-Oltalmolog*            Timber-pulp & paper         -       -      -       0.00      -
lo88                BGN-San Sebastian          Food&agribueiness           -      -       -       0.00    0.33
1988                BGN-Tevycomn               Indust.i equipment          -      -       -       0.00    0.10
1988                BGN-Valey                  Fooda&galbuseme             -      -       -       0.00    0.17      -           -
1988                BG-Vandenfl                Teidie                      -       -      -       0.00    0.17
196/69              BOGN-Flichman              Geral Manukactlg            -      -       -       0.00    0.43
1988/89             Banco Genal de Nebgi AL  Dev. Fina                  20.00      -      -      20.00     -
198/92           a/ Chirow OIl                 Chemiala & Petoe mm.      -      6.62     -       6.62     -        -           -
1988/92             Banco Rio delt Plata       Capit1erluts             80.00      -      -      60.00   32.00      -           7.83
1968/93/94          Bunge y orn                Food and Food Pro_ees    63.00      -    57.50   120.50   19.00    57.50         -
1981893             SGN-Longve                 Genera manutdving           -       -      -       0.00    0.13      -
1989            ad Argentine Invenent Company SewitbeeFmanclfln           -      2.00     -       2.00     -        -
1949             ad ChihLidosPekoleum          Energy                     -      4.98     -       4.98     -        -           -
1989                Banco Fraroea              Dev. Fwm                 18.00      -      -      15.00   10.91      -           -
19t9                ROB-Carboclor              Chemicals  petirocherm      -       -      -       0.00    0.14      -           -
1989                BGN-Csneud                 InduirlW services           -       -      -       0.00    0.33      -           -
1989                ROB-Ciervo                 Food & agrIbusne            -      -       -       0.00     -        -           -
199                 ROB-Comeal                 Geeal rnanufacbxing         -      -       -       0.00    0.75      -           -
1989                ROB-Maeic                  Chericals&p lrochm        -       -       -       0.00     -        -           -
1949                ROB-Maltwria               Food a agrIUinwe            -       -      -       0.00     -        -           -
1989                Com. Gnral do Inverlnes   FWnani Sve                  -      0.10     -       0.10    0.01      -           -
1989                ROB-Fracehia               Indur sevics               -        -      -       0.00    0.49      -           -
1949                ROB-Lavil                  ChemicaaA peoodi m          -       -      -       0.00    0.28      -           -
1989                ROB-Int                    Ties                        -       -      -       0.00    0.75      -           -
I9ng                ROB-Maaolano               Timber-pulp&PEW             -      -       -       0.00    0.10      -           -
1989                BGN-Parafins               Chemicals tiochm            -      -       -       0.00    1.25      -           -
1989                BGN-PastorH                FoodAagrouibuslh_                   -      -       0.00    0.36      -           -
1989                BGN-Gnro                   Food &agibuslness                   -      -       0.00    1.38      -           -
1919192             Asrn CAPSA                 Energy                   50.00      -    43.00    93.00   24.80    28.57         -



- 42 -
ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
asd olfr h 31 1905
CUS MiKm.)
Oriinw Grroc Commlznesn          Hold  Hold by  Undisb d
FrsC  Yew                                                              IFC   IFC    Par"ci-              by   Piul-  (neludng
Commined            Obligor                    Typo of Busines          Lotn Equit   pnnt    TOWs       IFC    punb   Participants)
1989/93             BGN-Boliand                Tourism                     -       -       -       0.00    0.40      -
1Q90                BGN-Algodonera             Textiles                    -       -       -       0-00    054      -
1990                Corporacion de Inversiones y
Privalzacion SA           Financia Services          -      0.08      -      0 08    008       -            -
1990                BGN-Frogotoba              Food & agribusiness         -       -       -       000    025       -            -
1990                BGN-Willmor                FoodAagribusins             -       -       -       0.00    1.38      -            -
1990/95             Petroken Petroquimica      Chemicals & Ptrochem.    40.00      -    11.00    51.00   36.67      7.33        10.00
1991                BancodeCroditoArgentino     FinancialServices       10-00      -       -      1000    714        -
1991                ROB-Guitord                Txtibls                     -       -       -       000    047        -
1991                ROB-Jugos                   Fod&Agribusinsms           -       -       -       000    033        -
1991                ROB-Interpack              Timberpulp  paper           -       -       -       0o00    1.00      -
1991                ROB-Surfactan              Chemicals & petiochom       -       -       -       0.00    0.21      -
1991                BGN-TSR                    Indust-l equipment          -       -       -       0.00    0.36     -
1992                Frigorifico Riopiatense    Fod & Agribusiness       12.00    1.00    8.00    19.00   10.33      5.00         2.00
1992                MBA Socied dd Bols SA      Capital MUIket             -      0.18      -       0.18    0.1      -            -
1992                Oleaginosa Oosts           Sunflower Seed Agribus.    20.00    -    15.00    35.00   18.93    12.50
1992                Polisur SM                 Chemicals & Ptrochem.      -      7.00      -       7.00    7.00     -             -
1992/93             Potrolera Argentine San Jorge   Energy              15.00   27.00   35.00    7700   40.75      32.08       25.18
1993                Alto Parna SA.             Timber. pulpand paper      -       -       -        000   19.47      -            -
1993                Brido.s SAPIC              Energy                   35.00   15.00   60.00   110.00   50.00     55.00         -
19C3                C.dipsaSA.                 Energy                   15.00    5.00   20.00    40.00   20.00     13.00        9.20
1993                BGN-Capri                   Food &agribusiness         -       -       -      0.00    1.00      -            -
1993                ROB-Emprigas               Industril swrvico           -       -       -      0.00    1.13      -            -
1993                Ferroexpreso ftmpeano SAC   Industirl Equipment     13.00      -    20.00    3300   13.00      1853          4.60
1993                ROB-Alimenticia             Food&agribusrines          -       -       -       000    083       -            -
1993                Mabria Pampa SA.           Food & Agribusiness      12.00      -    12.00    2400   12.00      12.00
1993                ROB-Mendoza                 Generil manufacturing      -       -       -      0.00    1.13      -            -
1993                Nuevo Cental Argentino SA   Railroad Equiprnent     10.00    3.00   15.00    28.00   13.00      -             -
1993t94             Molinos Rio de  Plcat       Food & Agribusinfss       -      3.00     -        3,00    782      -            -
1994                Banco General cd Negocios    Dev. Finance           15.00      -       -      1500   1600       -
1994                Cervceria yMateriaOuirnes   Food&Agribusiness       15.00      -    15.00    3000   1500       15.00          -
1994                CIA Gen Combustible         Crude Petoleumn          25.00   1500   4000    8000   4000        4000           -
1994                Empress Distbuidora        Industrl Service         45.00      -   12800   17300   4500    12800             -
1994                Quitral                     Chemicals & Petrochem.     -       -       -      000      -        -            -
1994                BGN-Ferrum                  Coment &tcosbutruc mt      -       -       -      0.00    1.50      -            -
1994                Masiza-Argentin SA.         Forest Products         11.00      -       -      11.00   11.00     -             -
1994                Arg.Equity Investment I Limited  Financiel Services    -     4.00      -       4.00    4.00      -
1994                Yacylec                     lndustr l Sertices      20.00       -   45.00    85.00   20.00     4500          -
1995                Aceitera                    Food & Agribusirnes     15.00   10.00   15.00    40.00   25.00     15.00        15.00
1995                Mastellone Hermanos SA.     Food & Agribusiness     40.00      -    35.00    75.00   40.00       -            -
1995                MaximaSA. AFJP              FinancialServices          -    10.10      -      10.19   10.19      -            -
1995                La Buenos Aires Vido        Financil Services          -     2.89      -       2.89    2.88      -           0.71
1995                La Buenos Aires Retiro      Financil Servicts          -     1.17      -       1.17    1.17      -           0.53
1995                Klbppe/Caldero              Food 8 agribusinew        8.00     -        -      6.00    6.00      -            -
1995                Aguas                      Infrastructure           38.00    7.00  134.50   179.50   45.00    134.50        52.95
1995                Compania Elaboradora de
Productos Alimsnticio SA.   Food & agribusines     15.00      -    6.00    21.00   1500       600
1995                 tobwrts Argwntina lnvestment
Capitel Fund (AICF)       Finrncial Services          -    20.00      -    20.00   2000        -          17.73
1995                Robets Argentina Investernt
Fund Managr               Financial Srvies           -      0.15      -      0.15    0.15      -           0.13
1995                Soems                       Holding Company         24.99   150   80.01   100.00   3999          -          24.99
1995                Cadesa                      Supermrkes               2.00      -       -      2800   2800        -          20.00
Tdan Groe Commibrne  b/                          11823t   1510 t   65.81  2200*0 
Less: Cancellations. Terminrions. Ropsyment A Sales  481.57    8.19  297.9   785.72
ToJ Comm*bem  tsNow Held c;/                       71.43  174U82  657A8  1,5130W  57424   007.66  206a5
Pending Commrtnenht:
AECSA                                               20.00      -    61.00    *1.00
Empresa Distrbuidora      Industral Sevices            -       -     6.00      . 00
Gasinvet                   Infrastructure              -    20.W      -      20.00
Nahuolsat                  Infrastructure           30.00    5.00     -      35.00
Sancor                     Food & agribusinoe       20.00   20.00   30.00    70.W
Transconor                 lnfrastIructw            25.00      -    S0.00   105.00
Tucuman                    Infrac ructurc              -     0.30      -      0.30
sub-tobtl                                          95.00   45.30  179.00   319.30
Tobi Conwibrsoet Hold and Pending Co _mmbne        75.43  22.192 15"AI tS.3t10
TobJ Undibwaed Co_smn     t                         622   4425   1.25   206.5
a/ Investonet which have been fully cancelled, terminated. writen-off, Old, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross Commitments consist of approved and signed projets.
c/ Held Commitmonts conisist of disbursed and undisbursed investmnts



- 43 -                           ANNEX D
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
PERFORMANCE OF PUBLIC BANKS
1.    Three national public banks remain in public hands: Banco de la Naci6n Argentina,
the largest public bank, Banco Hipotecario Nacional, and Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio
Exterior, a second-tier bank created in 1992. The Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (BNA)
is by far the largest bank, with assets of about US$12 billion and covering about 12
percent of total domestic lending and 13 percent of total deposits. Through its 525
branches, BNA covers all Argentine provinces and several foreign cities chiefly in the
western hemisphere. Although BNA had a prominent role in providing liquidity and
credit to the public sector (including public enterprises), its loans today are made
primarily (86 percent) to the private sector. Its credit business focuses on small and
medium-scale enterprise lending, including loans to the agricultural sector. Its loans to
the public sector declined from 17 percent of total credit in 1991 to 9 percent of total
credit in 1994. About 5 percent of its loans are allocated to financial institutions.
Furthermore, BNA is required to act as tax and payroll depository, undertake emergency
lending and serve as the Government's market leader for reducing interest rates. During
the recent liquidity crisis, BNA was required to act as the agent for the Government's
liquidity network, where part of reserve requirements from the better banks were allocated
to address the liquidity needs of banks that lost deposits.
2.    To maintain financial flexibility and be able to meet unexpected financial needs
until the Government's structural reform program is substantially completed, the
Government wishes to retain full control over BNA. At the same time, the Government is
aware of BNA's inefficiencies. BNA had deteriorated into a vast bureaucracy with an
antiquated organization and systems and low productivity in many of its branches, which
led to high operations costs. However, BNA completed initial measures to improve
performance: most importantly, the number of staff was reduced from about 18,000 to
15,000 via an early retirement program. Other measures included improved contracting
procedures, organizational realignments and, most importantly, negotiation of new
incentive-based compensation schemes for BNA staff. Despite restructuring, BNA's
return on capital (about 2 percent for 1994) remains low. Nevertheless, its present
financial situation, including liquidity and portfolio performance, is better than those of
other public financial institutions.
3.    Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BHN), an important pillar of the Government's
housing programs since the 1940s, used to provide housing and construction credit to
middle-income households. High inflation and low deposit mobilization had caused BHN



- 44 -                           ANNEX D
to depend on Central Bank loans. An increasing emphasis on social concerns led to
portfolio yields below funding costs, substandard collection performance and high
operating costs. Like most public banks, BHN had deteriorated into a large bureaucracy.
Insolvency set in during 1988/89. As a result, BNH reduced its staff from 4,200 in 1989
to 1,328 in 1994 an its branches from 54 to 24. Most importantly, under the Bank's
FSAL conditionality, BHN converted into a second-tier bank in 1992. Most of its lending
(91 percent) is extended through mortgage loans to the private sector. Like BNA, BHN's
rate of return remains low (about 2 percent) despite restructuring. BHN has provisioned
most of its substandard portfolio, which amounts to 25 percent of total loans. Net of
provisions, its substandard portfolio was equivalent to 3 percent of net worth at end-1994.
4.    The Banco de Inversion y Comercio Exterior, S.A. (BICE) was established in
January 1992 as a second tier bank in charge of lending to commercial banks long-term
investment and use of foreign trade credit lines contracted by the Argentine Government.
BICE operates exclusively as a second-tier institution and as financial agent for the
Government (as well as official bilateral and multilateral financial agencies) for operations
closely related to second tier activities. BICE is and is expected to remain fully state-
owned.
5.    BICE Operations. BICE acts as financial agent of the Argentine Government in
two areas: first, as financial agent for bilateral lending including: (i) loans extended by
Spain and Italy for financing exports to Argentina; (ii) collection of loans granted by
BCRA to Central Banks of other countries for a total amount of US$340 million; and (iii)
a loan granted by the Argentine Republic to the Republic of Ecuador with a ceiling of
US$45 million. Second, as a second-tier vehicle to lend commercial banks medium- and
long-term investment and export credit facilities for local companies. These include
financing for: (i) SME exports (US$100 million); (ii) participation by local producers in
international trade fairs; (iii) purchase of new, locally produced, capital goods for
investments carried out in Argentina (US$100 million); and (iv) private sector investments
for export activities. Interest rates on these operations are LIBOR plus 1.75-4.70
(depending on term to maturity and bank rating) to the commercial bank, plus a spread of
1.5 to 2.5 (depending on term to maturity) to the final borrower. In addition, BICE
intermediates IDB/Eximbank of Japan Multisectorial Investment Loans, to be used by the
private sector as a medium and long-term credit facility for the purchase of fixed assets,
permanent working capital and exports (US$800 million). BICE is also the designated
administrator of the Bank's Backstop Facility, to be used to back up bonds issued by
banks to finance medium and long-term investment projects (US$500 million).
6.    As a result of a progressive increase of its activity, BICE has increased its net
profits from US$ 1.7 in 1993, to US$ 6.4 million in 1994. This increase is mainly due to
short term operations in the call market and has been largely funded by the slow but
steady collection of OPRAC credits. Profitable foreign trade and domestic investment



- 45 -                            ANNEX D
operations has been rather limited: only five commercial banks have borrowed funds from
the export financing facility in the amount of US$ 875,000 and at an average rate of
10.75 %. The local capital goods credit facility has been used by three commercial banks
in the amount of US$ 460,000 and at an average interest rate of 6.7%. No disbursements
have yet been made to finance private sector export related investments.
7.    The present lack of demand for BICE's credit facilities may be explained by the
fact that commercial banks may prefer to place their own funds first, and only use BICE's
lines as a second option. Thus far, users of BICE's lines have been exclusively by small
banks that lack alternative source of funding. Due to the small size of the present BICEs
operations their funding so far has come exclusively from the bank's own equity.
8.    Prospects for BICE. Three years after starting its operations, BICE has
completed the process of setting up the institution. Nevertheless, BICE has yet to develop
its role as a financial player in foreign trade and domestic investment financing. BICE
must still contend with the financial community's portrayal of BICE as a continuation of
BANADE, a now defunct private bank. It has also had to face competition from other
commercial bank sources that offer funds at rates cheaper than BICE's. Nevertheless,
under increasing difficulties to tap the international markets, it is likely that demand for
BICE's lending increase. These conditions will provide BICE an opportunity to enhance
its role in Argentina's financial market.



-46 -                                         ANNEX E
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
THE FISCAL SITUATION IN THE PROVINCES
1.      The Argentine Republic comprises 24 provinces (including the Municipality of
Buenos Aires) which vary widely in population, physical endowment, and institutional
capacity. Throughout the 1980s, deficits generated by provincial governments and their
official banks were major contributors to the chronic instability of the Argentine public
sector.' The fiscal adjustment at the central level as well as economic growth generated
an unprecedented increase in co-participated revenues in 1991-92 which allowed provincial
governments to improve their fiscal accounts. However, this improvement was not
matched by sound financial management in many provinces, and an operational primary
deficit (overall fiscal balance less net interest payments and capital revenues) of Arg$2
billion or about 0.9 percent of GDP was registered in 1993 (Table 1). The provincial
deficit was only partially financed, contributing to an unstable economic and social
situation in many of the northern provinces. Fiscal difficulties led to violent demonstra-
tions in several provinces during 1993, which caused Federal authorities to intervene in
one province to restore order.
Table 1: Provincial Public Accounts
In Million of Real Pesos (1993)
1990        1991        1992        1993       1994 a/
Total Revenues                    14,303      18,217      23,313      24,760      25,015
Provincial Sources               5,468       6,620        9,177      10,417      10,560
Federal Sources                  8,712       11,597      14,136      14,342      14,455
Co-participation               5,895        9,196      10,669      10,236      10,171
. Others                         2,817       2,402       3,468       4,107       4,283
Total Expenditures                14,795      16,890      21.214      23,653      23,241
. Wages                          8,987      10,189      12,710      14,133      14.451
Goods and Services              1,768       1,958       2,471       2,703       2,687
Interest                         273         298         376          410        471
Transfers                      3,768        4,445       5,656       6,408       5,632
Public Savings                     (493)       1,327       2,099       1.107       1,774
Capital Revenues                     40          104         132       2.455        207
Capital Expenditures               2,787       2,733       2,560       3,537       4,021
Overall Balance                   (3,239)     (1,302)       (329)         24      (2,040)
Memo:
Primary Surplus                   (2,967)     (1,004)         47         434      (1.570)
Operational Primary Surplus       (3,007)     (1.107)        (84)     (2,021)     (1,776)
source: Miustry of Economy
a/ Estimated
1.      A more detailed review of provincial public finances during the 1980s and early
1990s may be found in Argentina - Public Finance Review: From Insolvency to
Growth (IBRD Report No. 10827-AR, February 11, 1993).



- 47 -                                   ANNEX E
2.     Although the overall fiscal situation in the provinces only slightly deteriorated
between 1993 and 1994 (Table 2), the situation worsened in many small provinces; 21 out
of 24 provinces registered a fiscal deficit in 1994 against only 14 provinces in 1993. As a
result, most provinces have increased their borrowing from the domestic financial market
and the Federal Government, in spite of the massive financing already received through
the debt consolidation process with the Federal Government, equivalent to over US$3.0
billion in 1993_94.2 While the limited access to new sources of financing will accentuate
the financial crisis in the provinces, it may also increase the pressures on them to adjust.
3.     All provinces, with the notable exception of the Municipality of Buenos Aires,
faced serious fiscal problems in 1994 (Table 2). Their overall fiscal deficit reached about
11 percent of their current expenditures in 1994 as the result of lower than expected
revenues and the continuous increase in personnel expenditures. The fiscal crisis appears
extremely severe in the provinces of Chubut, Rio Negro, San Juan and Tierra del Fuego
where the fiscal deficit exceeded 25 percent of their current expenditures.
Table 2: Overall Fiscal Deficit in the Participating Provinces, 1993-94 a/
1993                      1994
Million of    In % of      Million of    In % of
Pesos     Current Exp.    Pesos      Current Exp.
MCBA                     107             4          -21            -1
Catamarca                79             19           82            18
Cordoba                  176             8          276            13
Chubut                    44            10          116            27
Formosa                  24              5           38             8
Jujuy                     12             2           58            1 1
Mendoza                   34             4           72             7
Misiones                  16             3           89            16
Rio Negro               -231           -35          158            25
Salta                   -59             -8          114            16
San Juan                  97            18          160            26
San Luis                 -12            -4           55            16
Santa Cruz              -113           -35           39            11
Santa Fe                 -82            4             7             0
Santiago del Estero       82            14           79            13
Tucuman                 -15             -2          142            19
Tierra del Fuego          80            34           87            27
Total                    240             2         1551            1 1
Source: Ministry c onomy  -            2          1
a/ Defined as total borrowing requirements, (-) represents a fiscal surplus
4.     Provincial revenues, which amounted to US$25 billion in 1994, are characterized
by low revenue mobilization from provincial sources and a correspondingly high
dependence on revenue transfers from the Federal Government. Federal transfers
2.     The total bonds received by the provincial govermnents in 1993-94 reached US$4.0
billion but about US$1.1 billion was used to cancel the debt of the provincial banks
with the BCRA.



- 48 -                           ANNEX E
financed on average 60 percent of total provincial spending, ranging from a high of 92
percent of total expenditures in La Rioja to a low of 50 percent of spending in the
Province of Buenos Aires in 1992. Transfers include co-participated funds (71 percent),
discretionary grants (11 percent), royalties (4 percent) and other transfers (14 percent).
5.    Since the early 1980s, the level of provincial expenditures has exhibited a strong
upswing, up by over 80 percent in real terms between 1983 and 1994, with growing
concentration in employment expenditures at the expense of investment outlays. When
total provincial revenues declined by more than US$2 billion between 1981 and 1990,
provincial administrations responded by cutting capital expenditures in half, while
maintaining current expenditures roughly constant. Since 1990, greater co-participated
revenues have been used almost exclusively to finance increased public employment and
salaries at both the provincial and municipal levels of government. More recently, in
1993, a large influx of capital revenues, mainly from the proceeds of YPF privatization,
were also used in the oil-rich provinces of the south to increase wage expenditures. This
pattern of provincial spending resulted partially from the lack of provincial budgeting
capacity and administrative controls, as well as from explicit policies in some provinces in
the late 1980s to increase public wages and employment in response to stagnant local
economies and a decline in real wages.



- 49 -                                         ANNEX F
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
1.      Piivaizable Business of Provincial Banks.  Despite their financial and operational
weaknesses, many public banks have privatizable business segments. Past experience in
Argentina reveals a variety of cases. In the case of Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
(BANADE) and Banco de la Rioja, the institutions had to be fully liquidated, as there was
no business there that could be structured as a privatizable going concern. In contrast, the
provincial banks of Chaco, Entre Rios, and Corrientes and the Caja Nacional de Ahorro y
Seguros offered a privatizable business and were sold to the private sector. The
provincial banks that remain in provincial majority ownership offer diverse prospects of
privatization. Table 1 provides an indication of the deposit and lending activities of
provincial banks. At one extremes is Banco Provincial de Cordoba, the second largest
provincial bank (US$1.9 billion in assets), with a large deposit and lending network
(376,000 deposit accounts and 76,000 borrowers). At the other extreme is Banco de
Formosa, one of the smaller provincial banks (US$350 million in assets), with a large
negative equity, and a small deposit and lending network (20,000 deposit accounts and
2,900 borrowers).
Table 1: Provincial Banks - Key Indicators
Bank            Total       Number of      Number of        Term       Number of   Number of   Number
Assets       Checking       Savings        Deposit     Borrowers   Employees      of
USS million    Accounts       Accounts      Accounts                             Branches
Salta                      160          2,223          7,143         1,467       3.563         485         17
Jujuy                      150          2,042         15,417         4,595       5,436         563         10
Misiones                   500          9,672         29,058         2,089      11,742         866         30
Fonnsa                     350          2,817         16,634           754       2,903         449         10
lucuman                    290          6,819         10,264         1,745       6,052         913         23
Catamarca                  150          3.905         19,520           283       8,180         332         13
San Juan                   340          4,171         38,341         4,219      26,593         592          9
Mendoza                   1,700         11,775        64,468        16,232      60,787        2,800        53
Coidoba                  3,000          92,525       264,190        20.282      76,011        6.000       193
Santa Fe                   900         23,606         82,219        12,533      58,404        3,200       105
Santiago del Estero         90          3,722          4,815           704       9,909         460         23
Tiem del Fuego             190          2,146         13,704         1,020      12,832         250          5
San Luis                   190          3,086          2,849           617       5.565         420         19
Santa Cmz                  370          3,682         13,888         2,822      25,116         450         17
Chubut                     330          4,851         19,090         2,319       6,058         590         35
Rio Negro                  350          6,153         20,466         3.763      12,189         800         27
Ciudad Bs.As.            I,700          9,614         55,666        21,407      46,111        2,250        31
Total                    10,760        192,809       677,732        96,851     377,451       21,338       620



- 50 -                            ANNEX F
2.    Second, provincial banks have too many branches. The existing branches are
valuable for mobilizing savings, and can reach breakeven points more quickly than the 2-3
years common for a new branch. Nevertheless, provincial branches have a much higher
level of staff than the private sector, and significantly lower accounts and customers per
branch. Their takeover would involve significant problems of systems and technology
integration. More importantly, these tradeoffs can be made positive only if the buyer
acquires a few branches. Even the largest national banks have only a few branches in the
provinces, and most bankers expressed an interest in no more than 2-8 branches in a
province (in the capital city and maximum another 4-5 cities), planning to serve other
locations only through ATMs. Thus it may be particularly difficult to sell the larger
provincial banks to a single national bank buyer. For instance, Banco Galicia, the largest
private bank, has only 179 branches nationwide, about the same as the provincial branch
network in Mendoza. It is unlikely to want to add more than, say, 10 new branches in
any one province. A complete privatization or sale would thus saddle most buyers with
the problem of liquidating much of the acquired network. Regional or cooperative bank
buyers may be interested in owning a bigger regional network.
3.    Third, there is some genuine value in some of the provincial banks' names, their
appeal to the provincial clientele, and the clients' association with specific locations. But
this value is less attractive to for buyers with national operations, who would must merge
the acquired branches with their existing operations. Only the regional buyers or
cooperatives would be fully able to utilize the goodwill associated with a provincial bank.
4.    Fourth, private investors will resist at taking over the staff of the provincial banks.
While most banks recognize the need for some local staff, the provincial bank managerial
staff are not desired because of the past corrupt and politicized lending practices, and the
lower level staff may be beyond re-training. Most private banks, including the top ones,
are overstaffed and reducing existing staff. It is estimated that the wholesale bank
retrenchment alone has left 2,000 bankers seeking jobs. Thus privatizations appear
possible only after a substantial retrenchment of the staff. In this context, it is worth
noting that the provincial government employees (including those in the banks) still enjoy
fairly generous retirement benefits, as did federal employees until the recent pension law
reforms. Structuring a privatizable entity will most likely require attractive severance
payments to reduce overstaffing.
5.    Fifth, interested buyers include the larger private national banks, several middle-
tier regional banks interested in growing nationally, and cooperative banks. Each have
specific needs and preferences. Most larger national banks already have presence in many
provinces and can easily open new branches in others. They therefore would not have a
significant interest in acquiring whole provincial banks and their highly concentrated
portfolio outright. Whole or substantially whole privatization may be of greater interest to
regional banks, or regional non-bank businessmen, desiring strategic diversifications out of
their present base (e.g. Banco Suquia and Banco Sud may want to increase their presence



- 51-                              ANNEX F
in the north), and interior and cooperative banks. The G-7 foreign banks are primarily
aiming at the top tier of consumer and corporate lending. Even the retail oriented banks
(such as Citibank or Banco de Boston) are at best interested in a few branches rather than
whole banks. Some Latin banks (e.g. Banco Itau of Brazil and Grupo Luksic of Chile)
have established presence in the country recently and may be interested in acquiring some
branches and perhaps a whole bank in a province of Mercosur importance.
6.    Finally, purchase of provincial banks would cost the buyer the net purchase
consideration and additional capital to meet the 11.5% capital adequacy guideline. Even
if the purchase involves a zero net price (asset = liabilities), the buyer has to eventually
provide the risk capital. The larger provincial banks of Cordoba and Mendoza (with
assets of US$3.0 billion and US$1.7 billion, respectively) may prove to be too big to be
acquired any single bank. (The largest private Bank, Galicia, had assets of US$4.0
billion, and net capital of about US$500 million at end-1994).
7.    Piivatization Incentives. On December 12, 1994, the Central Bank announced
several incentives to facilitate privatization of provincial banks and for merger and
acquisitions between other banks. These include gradual regularization of lending above
current guidelines to provincial governments, affiliated firms, and to other clients;
concessional treatment of current capital adequacy guidelines after privatization;
permission to treat as part of net worth the unsubscribed capital supported by co-
participation revenues; concessions in capital to be provided against immovable property;
exemption of up to 40% of the liquidity reserve requirements to be phased out in 18
months; and phased expending of pension retirement liability over five years. These are
substantial concessions which greatly facilitate privatization of banks. However, the
concessions are primarily directed towards whole privatizations, and need to be
generalized and/or interpreted flexibly to facilitate more difficult transactions such as those
for the "residual" bank and piecemeal sale/liquidation. In addition, under privatization
deals, provincial governments will grant the bank the financial agency function (e.g., tax
collection) for which the bank will receive fees.
8.    Structuring a Privatizable Entity. The structuring and sale of a privatizable entity
will need to address some important difficulties. First, the portion of the portfolio that
would interest private sector is likely to be small chiefly because portfolio quality is low
and declining. Non-performing asset levels range from 40% to more than 90%, as of
September 1994. These figures are published in the Central Bank documents, and are
well-known to be significantly under-estimated. Portfolio problems are expected to
worsen. Furthermore, loans to provincial governments or agencies are considered
extremely doubtful. Private investors would not relish the prospect of any collection
efforts against provincial government entities. Moreover, investors may feel that private
sector loans have been made to the affiliates of politicians and public officials and specific
interest groups. These may be also worthless. Private investors could, however, be
interested in consumer lending (which is considered underdeveloped by provincial banks



- 52 -                              ANNEX F
relative to their deposit clientele), commercial loans, and current accounts of the
provincial government entities.
9.    Privatization Options. Privatizations can be structured through several
alternatives. These include the sale of one bank to one buyer, integration of several
smaller provincial banks into a regional bank and then their sale, sale of one bank to a
consortium of buyers, the sale of a few branches to several buyers and the sale of only a
part of the bank to a strategic (controlling) investor. The possible advantages and
disadvantages of these approaches are summarized in Attachment I. This analysis,
combined with the more detailed evaluation of the individual provincial banks, will help
assess the probability of privatization in a more realistic fashion and will also help refine
the implications of privatization process.
10.   Prototype Balance Sheet Adjustments. Attachment II displays the type of balance
sheet adjustments a smaller provincial bank would have experienced in light of the post-
Mexico liquidity squeeze and the subsequent effort to ready the bank for privatization.
The Base Case (Attachment I, page 1) illustrates some typical assets and liabilities of a
provincial bank. Mainly, the loan portfolio includes a large share granted to the public
sector. On the liability side, shown are substantial public deposits reflecting the
management of co-participated revenues and active borrowing in the interbank or call
market. The First Event (Attachment II, page 2) illustrates how the substantial drop in
deposits has been financed (decrease in cash/banks and increase in Safety Net borrowing)
and a drop in total assets. The Second Event displays a series of adjustments to reset
assets at market values and to account for increased liabilities. Of note is that assets fall
further and equity becomes sharply negative (netting out Credit to Shareholders and Net
Equity). The Third Event (Attachment II, page 3) presents the split between what is
considered the privatizable bank and the residual entity. Basically, most private sector
assets and liabilities remain in the privatizable bank. As this example shows, only a
fraction of the original assets would be offered for sale.



Comparison of Alternatives to Privatization of Provincial Banks                                         |
Approach                         Advantages                                  Disadvantages                   Suitable to      Suitable
Buyers        for Sellers
Sale to single       1. Simpler transaction                          1. Will attract very few buyers          Cooperative or    Small
buyer                2. Ease of bidding                              interested in whole acquisition          regional banks    provincial
2. Undiversified portfolio               seeking           banks
3. Limited competition, low price        strategic
presence in
certain regions
Regional             1. Will create a diversified portfolio          1. Tremendous difficulties of merging                       Really
integration          2. Larger bidding interest                      banks across provinces and ascertaining                     small
the current shareholders' liability                        provinces
2. Significant pre-privatization delays
3. Difficulties of retiring staff in several
provinces
4. Provinces will argue over HO
location and branches to be retained
Sale to a            1. Facilitate purchase price                    1. Lack of strategic rationale for such  Cooperative        Mendoza,
consortium of        2. Probably the only way to sell the larger     cooperation among existing competitors   banks who have   Cordoba
buyers               provincial banks in one transaction             2. New bank can't be merged with         joint ventures                        w
3. Facilitate participation of a foreign buyer  existing operations of the buyers
Sale of individual    1. Most logical acquisition from buyers'       1. Province must logically group and      Virtually all     Virtually
branches             perspective                                     offer for sale small parcels of banks    buyers             all sellers
2. Maximize buyer interest, competition, and    2. Intensive information, audit,
price                                           investment banking services required
3. Maximize survival of provincial branches     for sale
and staff                                       3. Process-intensive for IBRD loan
4. Create competition in banking services in
smaller locations
5. Has been done in the past frequently in
Argentina
6. Allows privatization to commence in several
small steps                                                                                                               z.  >
rt Z
Partial, but         1. Reduce purchase consideration                1. Buyers would prefer to buy a smaller                     Larger            r i
controlling, block                                                   packet of net assets than a share                           banks,
sale                                                                 2. Continued provincial government                          Mendoza        D
or
ownership may not be desired                                or Cordoba   r



- 54 -                                      ANNEX F
ATTACHMENT 11
Page I
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
PROTOTYPE BALANCE SHEET ADJUSTMENTS
('000)
Banco de la Provincia de
Base Case: Balance Sheet prior to Mexico Crisis
ASSE                                                162,000    LIABELITIES               -                        141,000
Cash/Banks                                20,000               Deposits                              110,000
Treasury Bills and Bonds                  10,000                Public                  45,000
Loans                                    100,000                Private                 65,000
Public                      25,000
Private                     75,000
Interbank Loans                           12,000               Interbank Borrowing                   25,000
Stock Participations                       2,000               Misc. Liabilities                       5,000
Various Credits                            2,000               Provisions                              1.000
Fixed Investments                         10,000  _           _                                  _     __
Misc. Assets                               2,000 |                                               _
Goodwill                                   4,000               NET EQUITY                                          21,000



- 55 -                                      ANNEX F
Page 2
First Event: Drop in Deposits Funded by Decrease of Cash/Banks and by Safety Net
ASSETS                                             147,000    LIABILrTIES                                          126.000
Cash/Banks                                 S,000               Deposits                                85,000
Treasury Bills and Bonds                  10,000                Public                     35,000
Loans                                    100,000                Private                    50,000
Public                      25,000                          .
Private                     75,000
Interbank Loans                           12,000               Interbank Borrowing                     35,000
Stock Participations                       2,000                Safety Net                 10,000
Various Credits                            2,000                Odters                     25,000
Fixed Investments                         10,000               Misc. Liabilities                       5,000
Misc. Assets                               2,000               Provisions                               1,000
Goodwill                                  4,000                NET EQUITY                                          21,000
Second Event: Further Balance Sheet Changes prior to Privatization/Closure
ASSETS                                             131,000    LIABILITIES                                       119,000
Cash/Banks                                 5,000               Deposits                               75,000
Treasury Bills and Bonds(1)                4.000                Public                      35,000
Loans                                     65,000                Private(5)                  40,000
Public                       25,000
Private(2)                   40,000
Interbank Loans                           12,000               Interbank Borrowing                    35,000
Stock Participations                       2,000                Safety Net(6)               20,000
Various Credits(3)                         LOW__              _odlers_ 7     _              15,000
Fixed Investments(4)                       6,00                Misc. Liabilities                       5,000
Misc. Assets                               2,000               Provisions                               1,000
Goodwill                                   4,000               Provision for Severance(8)              3,000
CREDIT TO                                 30,000               NET EQUITY                                        12,000
SHAREHOLDERS
NUFrS:
(1) Downward adjustmnent to account for rnarket valuation.
(2) Downward adjustment to account for increased loan loss provisions.
(3) Downward adjustrnent to account for increased collection costs.
(4) Downward adjustment to account for valuation of properties at market.
(5) Deposit withdrawal by speculative depositors.
(6) Increase in Safety Net Funding.
(7) Decrease of other high cost and volatile liabilities.
(8) New provision to allow for staff reductions.



- 56 -                                      ANNEX F
Page 3
Banco de la Provincia de
Third Event: Dividing bank between Privatizable Bank and Residual Entity
Privatizable Bank
ASSET'S                               _ ___          66,000    LIABILITIES                                         54.000
Cash/Banks                                 5,000               Deposits                         _      48,000
Treasury Bills and Bonds                   4,000                 Public                      8,000
Loans                                     40,000                 Private                    40,000
Public                           0 000   =           -                  _                          _   _
Private                     40,000   _  _  _  _  _  _  _       _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _  _   _  _
Interbank Loans                            6,000               Interbank Borrowing                          0
Stock Participations                       2,000               Misc. Liabilities                        5.000
Various Credits                            1,000               Provisions                               1,000 _
Fixed Investments                          6,000     =
Misc. Assets                               2,000
Goodwill                                       0               NET EQUITY                     =                    12,000
Residual Entity
ASSETS                                               65,000    LIBILITIES                                         65,000
Cash                                           0               Deposits                                27,000
Treasury Bills and Bonds                       0                 Public                     27,000
Loans                                     25,000                 Private                         0
Public                       25,000
Private                          0
Interbank Loans                            6,000               Interbank Borrowing                     35 000
Stock Participations                           0                 Safety Net                 20 000
Various Credits                                0                 Others                     IS 000
Fixed Investments                              0               Misc. Liabilities                            0
Misc. Assets                                   0               Provisions                                   0
Goodwill                                   4,000               Provision for severance                  3,000
CREDIT TO                                 30,000
SHAREHOLDERS



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
Privatization Costs
PRIVATIZATION COSTS
TOTAL
Banks Identified as      ASSETS         Privatization       Negative Equity         Cost of Early        Cost of                Total
Currently willing to    US$ Millions    Probability!'      as of Dec. 1994 2/        Retirements        Privatization
Privatize             as of                                            _                         Consultancies5/
Dec, 1994
US$ Millions                              US$        As % of
Millions     Assets
1. Santiago del Estero             90           4                        29                     5                  0.2          34.2        38
2. Santa Fe                        900           2                       297                    19                 0.4         316.4        35
3. Mendoza                       1,700           5                       198                   11                  0.6         209.6         12
4. San Juan                        340           4                        42                    4                  0.2          46.2         14
5. Rio Negro                       350           1                        83                   10                  0.2          93.2        27
6. Santa Cruz                      370           3                         8                    3                  0.2          11.2         3
I                                                                                                                  tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
7. Tucuman                         290           3                        66                    6                  0.2          72.2        25
S. Misiones3                       50W           5                       99                     5                  0.2         104.2        21
9. Jujuy                           150           2                        20                    3                  0.2          23.2         15
10. Ciudad Buenos Aires          1.700          3                        55                    14                  0.6          69.6         4
11. Catamarcak                     150          4                        69                     2                  0.2          71.2        47
12. Formosa                       350           5                        63                     3                  0.2          66.2        19
13. Chubut                        330           2                        29                     3                  0.2          32.2        10
14. San Luis                       190          4                         8                     3                  0.2          11.2         6
15. Tierra del Fuego               190          2                        36                     2                  0.2          38.2        20
16. Salta                          160          4                         10                    3                  0.2          13.2         8
t,1
17. Cordoba                      3,000          3                        63                    25                  0.8          88.8         3
Grand Total              10,760"                                1,175                   121                 5.0        1,301.0
1/ Scale of zero to five (zero, virtual certainty of No privatization; five, virtual certainty of priv'atization).
2/ i.e. capital requirements to pay-off liabilities net of assets
3/ privatization being supported by recent US$300 million Provincial Reform Loan.
_/ or 12% of total banking assets.
5_ Excludes success fee.



- 58 -                          ANNEX H
ARGENTINA
PROVINCLIL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
ROLE AND OPERATIONS OF THE PRIVATIZATION TRUST FUND
1.    The Privatization Trust Fund was established by Presidential Decree 286 of
February 27, 1995 with the mandate to provide loan financing for the privatization of
provincial enterprises as well as provincial banks. A separate Trust Fund account,
specifically for provincial banks, would be established. The anticipated resources of the
Trust Fund include budgetary allocations but primarily loans from the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank. All Trust Fund operations are to cease by April 30,
1997, at the latest.
2.    The spirit of the Trust Fund is to provide a set of financial incentives but to leave
the initiative and management of privatization per se to the owners of provincial banks,
namely provincial governments. A minimal Trust Fund organization is foreseen with a
supervisory board and the national conmmercial bank (Banco de la Naci6n Argentina)
acting as financial agent. The Trust Fund's supervisory board is composed of senior
officials of the Ministry of Economy, the Central Bank (Superintendency of Banks), and
Banco de la Naci6n. This has been designed to avoid creating a permanent institution
which in later years would be difficult to disband.
3.    Detailed Operational Guidelines for the Trust Fund will be in place as a condition
of effectiveness and will contain strict governing policies and guidelines for bank
privatization, management of residual assets and liabilities, the intervention of the
Superintendency of Banks and preprivatization actions and closing of banks. Guidelines
for privatization will emphasize inter alia: (i) the preferred objective to sell all of
provincially held shares but at least 60% in most cases and in all cases at least 51 %; (ii)
criteria for shareholder suitability; and (iii) bidding conditions which establish bid price,
financing and a five-year limitation for the granting of exclusive rights to manage
provincial government bank accounts. Guidelines for the management of residual net
assets would stress the completion of the process on a timely basis and indicate preferred
options for asset resolution and pay-off of liabilities.
4.    Loan amounts to be granted to each provincial bank would be initially set on the
basis of bank assets, as follows:



- 59 -                        ANNEX H
Allocated
Banks with Assets of:                    Loan Amount
(i)   Up to US$200 million                US$50 million
(ii)   Up to US$500 million              US$80 million
(iii)  Up to US$800 million               US$100 million
(iv)  Up to US$1,200 million              US$160 million
(v)   Above US$1,201 million              US$240 million
5.    All borrowing would be guaranteed by co-participated revenues or equivalent
guarantees. Provinces would authorize automatic deductions from Banco de la Naci6n
accounts, should a guarantee have to be called. Participating provinces would be required
to disclose all co-participated guarantees already granted and provide evidence that the
additional guarantees have been duly authorized.
6.    The interest rate would be based on the weighted average of the Trust Fund's
borrowing and a commission for the financial agent, Banco de la Naci6n. All interest
charges would be capitalized until the respective provincial bank has been privatized or
closed. The penalty interest rate would be set by adding five additional percentage points.
7.    The Trust Fund would pass on to provincial banks the full foreign exchange risk of
its foreign borrowing.
8.    Loan repayment schedules would be designed so as to mirror the Trust Fund's own
repayment obligations to its lenders.
9.    The entire privatization process would be permanently monitored by the
Superintendency of Banks. Should the privatization management team not perform
adequately, replacement of such team would be sought.
10.   Once a provincial government has decided to privatize and the Superintendency of
Banks has intervened, by placing at least two permanent senior inspectors (veedores), an
initial drawdown of one-third of the allocated loan amount would be granted, provided
provincial governments meet the following conditions:
(i)  the provincial legislature has authorized privatization of the majority of the
share capital;
(ii)   a new privatization management team has been appointed;
(iii)  a privatization plan and a cashflow have been presented; and
(iv)  the Superintendency of Banks has approved both the privatization plan and
cashflow.



- 60 -                            ANNEX H
The privatization plan would, in turn, target privatization within 180 days and include
target dates for:
(a)    a financial and operating diagnosis of the respective provincial bank,
supported by audited financial statements and loan portfolio evaluation;
(b)   decision on the appropriate privatization strategy and on criteria for investor
suitability;
(c)   identification of any residual entity and a strategy to liquidate such entity
within one year;
(d)   finalization of bidding documents for the privatizable bank and draft bidding
documents to contract-out banking services should privatization fail;
(e)   bid invitation;
(f)   bid awards; and
(g)   signature of transfer contract.
11.   A final drawdown would be permitted by the supervisory board provided:
(i)   the transfer contract to the new private owner has been signed, or closure
of the bank has been duly authorized;
(ii)   an approved liquidation plan is are in place to dispose   of any residual
entity within one year and with a satisfactory impact on provincial
finances. The balance sheet of any residual entity would be duly audited.
12.   The amount of the final drawdown would be confirned on the basis of the
financial diagnosis included in the Privatization Plan. However, such amount would not
exceed two-thirds of the original allocation.
13.   The initial and final drawdowns would also be subject to the "no-objection" of the
Bank.
14.   To avoid unproductive attempts to privatize, provinces would be eligible to draw
the entire allocation in one drawdown if their provincial banks is closed immediately.
15.   If neither privatization nor closure occurs within one year, the initial drawdown of
one-third would have to be refunded at the penalty interest rate. Under exceptional
circumstances, the Trust Fund may authorize the extension of the privatization plan from



- 61 -                           ANNEX H
180 to 270 days should the first privatization attempt fail. In case the second privatization
attempt fails as well, the province would have another 90 days to contract out the banking
services to the private sector. Also, if provincial governments establish a new public bank
at a future date, all outstanding amounts would be accelerated and become due
immediately.
16.   Trust Fund resources would be applied to the following liabilities:
in respect of the initial drawdown, liabilities due to the Central Bank and
Banco de la Naci6n, to provincial governments for deposit withdrawals
since December 20, 1994 and to privatization consultants. The repayment
of Central Bank and Banco de la Naci6n liabilities would be deposited
directly into their respective accounts;
in respect of the final drawdown, liabilities of the residual entity including
its administrative liquidation costs. Excluded would be the financing of
liabilities of the province itself.



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL BANK PRIVATIZATION LOAN
MATRIX OF TRANCHE CONDIMIONS
ACTIVITY                                     First Tranche                                 Second Tranche                         Third Tranche
(at Effectiveness for 1/3 of Loan amount)             (For 1/3 of Loan amount)               For 1/3 of Loan amount)
1. ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
| t Compliance with macroeconomic program satisfactory  | *Same                                |   Same
11. FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
0 Issue of Operating Guidelines establishing criteria for    * Disbursement of First Tranche   * Disbursement of Second Tranche
access to Privatization Trust Fund specifically for    counterpart funds by Privatization Trust   counterpart funds by Privatization  a"
provincial bank privatization.                         Fund.                                   Trust Fund                            -
* External audit of Privatization Trust    * Same
Fund.
* Audit of First Tranche disbursement    0 Same
documentation.
III. CENTRAL BANK
I    Appointment of supervisors (veedor) by            * Same                                  * Same
Superintendency of Banks in sufficient numbers and with
appropriate qualifications to oversee privatization of
provincial banks
IV. PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS/BANKS
|   Signing of at least three Privatization Trust Fund
agreements.
>



MAP SECTION






itIRD, ?558 '
17D 0      BOLIVIA            /        61
C-               xPARAGUAY 
/  Son Solvodor
0S de Jujuy      O
Salto &
SAL TA
-t y c   Tucum6n         CHACO
r  w  X       Sontiogo   Resistencio0                   B RAZ I L
I 1     del Estero            Posods 
-~SANT)AGO
Cotomarco S     DEL
Lo Riojo0      ESTERO
LA                 SANTA   c 0
30                  SAN   RIOJA                     FE                                          30-
J JUAN           COCRDOBA  SontoFe ENTRE                                    3 0
SonJluanO             C6rdobo      S    RIOS
Mendoza
-   0 <D  Son Luis
0A                             URUGUAY r
SAN
'- LUIS                      L lt
BUENOS AIRES& 0                         C
+                    ~~~~~~~   ~     ~~La Plato  T.
Santa Roso     BUENO S
LA            AIRES
W     Z             PAM PA
T   90 Neuquene                     --
U   I 
Z       RIO                              A R G E N T I N A
_40                       NEGRO              S-                                                 40
Cormen de
Potogones
Viedmo         S    Province Capitals
Notional Capital
RawsonG                         Province Boundaries
CHUBUT                                    International Boundaries
MILES 0    1 00  200   300  400   500
SANTA                         I      I      I      I         I
SANTAI
CR UZ                      KILOMETERS 0       200    400    600    800
-At .- A IC' 5LNADS
N   A   ' N A S
-so-
Rio Gollegos                                   The boundaries, colors.  50
S                      -                denominotions and  any
other information shown
on  this marp  do  not
' ,.- . 1W''.  A.    v N 9 1.S' imply, on  the  port of
I  -; -                      The World  Bank  Group.
U  any judgmenat on the legal
status of aniy territory,
- Ushuasa                         or any  endorsement
TIERRA                      or acceptance of such
_                        ~~~~~~~~~boundlaries.
DEL
e0o                     70'        FUEGO    60                         50-
FEBRUARY 1994









-Ii  T I    '-'     '=' r,1 f5 -,'
FR,.*     F         4 -   1 ! C, !    F'          Z.  ,:^ 7  f-)  r;-% i
_1 p L\.>F*     .: I IF.-,



