LOAN NUMBER 391-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Bank Privatization Loan)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENr
Dated Ma 5'  , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER3918-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated           Ay  5 L, 1995,            between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 19, 1995, from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the financial sector of the provinces of the Borrower (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed
imports required during such execution; and
(B)    on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three
tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, datad January 1 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"11. 'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Schedule I to the Loan Agreement.";
(b)    Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the


﻿-2-
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.";
(c)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(d)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowleJge of the Bank, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."; and
(e)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
any further withdrawals under the Loan w: uld be inconsistent with the
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "BCRA" means Banco Central de la Repiblica Argentina. the Borrower's
Central Bank;
(b)    "First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding the
equivalent of $167,000,000 to be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;
(c)    "Municipal Banks" means banks owned or controlled by Municipalities
(as hereinafter defined);
(d)    "Municipalities"means municipalities in Provinces (as hereinafter defined)
and the Municipality of Buenos Aires;


﻿-3-
(e)    "Privatization Trust Fund" means the sub-account for privatization of
Provincial Banks (as hereinafter defined) and Municipal Banks of the Provincial
Development Trust Fund ("Fondo Fiduciario pa El Desarrollo Provincial") established
by Decree No. 286 of February 27, 1995 of the Borrower, as amended by Decree No. 445
of March 28, 1995 of the Borrower;
(f)    "Privatization Trust Fund Documents" means: (i) the Decrees referred to
in paragraph (e) of this Section; (ii) the operating guidelines (instrucciones) referred to
in paragraph 2 of Decree No. 286 of the Borrower and to be issued by the Secretariat of
Finance, Banking and Insurance of the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Public
Works and Services; (iii) the trust deed entered into between the Borrower and Banco de
la Naci6n for the administration of the Provincial Development Trust Fund referred to in
paragraph (e) of this Section; (iv) the financing agreements to be entered into between
Banco de la Naion as administrator of the Provincial Development Trust Fund, on the
one hand, and, on the other, the Provinces (as hereinafter defined) and the Provincial
Banks (as hereinafter defined) or the Municipalities and the Municipal Banks for the
purpose of allowing such Provinces and such Provincial Banks and such Municipalities
and Municipal Banks to draw upon the Privatization Trust Fund; and (v) the laws of the
Provinces authorizing participation by such Provinces and such Provincial Banks in the
Program and the ordinances of the Municipalities authorizing participation of such
Municipalities and such Municipal Banks in the Program;
(g)    "Provinces" means the provinces of the Borrower;
(h)    "Provincial Banks" means banks owned or controlled by the Provinces;
(i)    "Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding the
equivalent of $167,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions
set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(j)    "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343
(1986);
(k)    "Superintendency of Banks" means BCRA's Superintendencia de
Entidades Financieras; and
(1)    "Third Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding the
equivalent of $166,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions
set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of five hundred million dollars
($500,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1997 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Forrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of onf percent (314 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semesfer, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down


﻿-5 -
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October I in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on
February I and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) BCRA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)    Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby
entrusts BCRA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under
the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to


﻿-6-
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less
than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE M
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken
after the disbursement of the Third Tranche which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including
any action specified in paragraph 4 of Schedule I and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect ir. accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section in respect of expenditures under each of the First
Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than two months after the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account has been made under each of the First Tranche,
Second Tranche and Third Tranche, a certified copy of the


﻿-7-
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be iaintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report in respect of the expenditures under the Third
Tranche, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audits
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted, together with
the p'cedures and    internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
(d)     The Borrower shall appoint the auditors referred to in paragraph
(b) (i) above not later than 30 days after the respective dates on which final disbursement
of the proceeds of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche have been made.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, promptly after the respective dates on
which disbursement of the proceeds of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third
Tranche have been made, deposit into the Privatization Trust Fund counterpart funds
equivalent to the respective amounts disbursed under the First Tranche, Second Tranche
and Third Tranche.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause the Privatization Trust Fund to be operated in
accordance with the Privatization Trust Fund Documents.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)    any of the Privatization Trust Fund Documents has been amended,
repealed, abrogated, terminated or waived, in whole or in part, by any of the parties
thereto, or any new rules or agreements that affect the operation of the Privatization Trust
Fund are adopted or entered into by any said party or by any other entity, so as to affect,
in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the execution of the Program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with
the objectives of the Program;
(b)    the operating guidelines referred to in Section 1.02 (f) (ii) of this
Agreement have been issued in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, containing
guidelines on the governing policies of the Privatization Trust Fund, bank privatization,
management of residual assets, bank holding policies prior to privatization including
intervention, and bank closure. Such guidelines shall also include provisions that will
allow the utilization of proceeds of the Privatization Trust Fund for the benefit of a
Provincial Bank only: (i) when such Provincial Bank has not benefitted from proceeds of
the Transformation Fund (as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement, dated March
24, 1995, between the Borrower and the Bank for Loan No. 3836-AR); or (ii) if such
Provincial Bank has benefitted from proceeds of the Transformation Fund, Privatization
Trust Fund loan amounts shall be determined by deducting the amounts allocated by the
Transformation Fund for the same purpose;


﻿-9-
(c)    at least three financing agreements as referred to in Section 1.02 (f) (iv)
of this Agreement have been signed by the parties thereto and each of these agreements
is in accordance with the terms and conditions for such agreements approved by the Bank;
and
(d)    BCRA, through the Superintendency of Banks, has appointed supervisors
("veedores") in numbers and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank for the start-up
of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date  A Aulus-+ i4-, Iq5 i is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y
Servicios Publicos
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250, 5to piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:              Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA              121950 AR
Baires
The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement will be inserted here.


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By/S Alr,he                          Pe Ir,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                 S    4aA IJJrdTveWd  Burki*
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds
of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or subgroups,
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Grou             Subgroup         Description of Items
112                  --            Alcoholic beverages
121                  --            Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122                  --            Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                   --           Radioactive and
associated materials
667                   --           Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or worked
718               718.1            Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728               728.43           Tobacco processing machinery


﻿- 13 -
897               897.3           Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                  --           Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)  payments made for goods imported prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such goods imported before
that date but after February 16, 1995;
(d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000
equivalent;
(e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed or
agreed to finance;
(f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for
luxury consumption; and
(g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $25,000,000 for
petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.   Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent may be required by the Bank upon the
basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify.
4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached:


﻿- 14 -
(a)  the equivalent of $167,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Part
A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank
(b)  the equivalent of $334,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Part
B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
5.   If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph 4 above, the
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable conditions referred to in
such paragraph have not been fulfilled and, within 90 days after such notice, such
conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 2001                 25,000,000
through August 1, 2010                     25,000,000
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 16-
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepavment                 Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                 0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                 0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                   0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                 1.00
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:          General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:          International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines,
subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:          Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured:
1.         by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement
procedures for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank;
and
2.         by other purchasers:
(a)  under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines;
or
(b)  in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph of the Guidelines.


﻿- 18 -
Part D:          Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.         Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 equivalent,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
2.         Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:    Actions Referred to in ParagRh 4 (a) of Schedule 1
1.   The amount equivalent to the First Tranche amount deposited by the Borrower in
the Privatization Trust Fund in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement has been fully disbursed by the Privatization Trust Fund.
2.   The Bank has received a certified copy of an audit report by external auditors
acceptable to the Bank of the records and accounts of the Privatization Trust Fund after
full disbursement of the amount referred to in paragraph I above.
3.   A certified copy of the audit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement
in respect of expenditures financed out of the First Tranche has been furnished to the
Bank.
4.   BCRA, through the Superintendency of Banks, has appointed supervisors
("veedores") in numbers and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank for the carrying
out of the Program.
Part B:    Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1
1.   The amount equivalent to the Second Tranche amount deposited by the Borrower
in the Privatization Trust Fund in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of
this Agreement has been fully disbursed by the Privatization Trust Fund.
2.   The Bank has received a certified copy of an audit report by external auditors
acceptable to the Bank of the records and accounts of the Privatization Trust Fund after
full disbursement of the amount referred to in paragraph I above.
3.   A certified copy of the audit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement
in respect of expenditures financed out of the Second Tranche has been furnished to the
Bank.
4.   BCRA, through the Superintendency of Banks, has appointed supervisors
("veedores") in numbers and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank for the carrying
out of the Program.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


