Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 5843-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 25, 1987
Industry Department
This dwoment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1.00             -  Paise 100
US$1.00             =  Rs 13.0
Rs 1.00             -  US$0.08
Rs 1 million        -  US$76,923
(Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 13.0)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 British thermal unit (Btu)   -  0.252 kilocalories
1 kilocalorie (kcal)             m 3.97 British thermal units
1 gigacalorie (gigacal)          -  1,000,000 kcal
I kilocalorie per kilogram       -  1.805 British thermal uaits per
(kcal/kg)                        pound
1 cubic meter (m3)               =  1.308 cubic yards
1 kilowatt (kW)                  -  1,000 watts
1 megawatt (W)                   m  1,000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh) J             1,000,000 kilowatt hours
1 kilogram (kg)                     2.205 pounds
I  ton of coal equivalent (tce) -  1 ton of coal containing
7,000,000 kcal
1  ton (t)                       =  1,000 kilograms
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYHS USED
BCCL - Bbarat Coking Coal Ltd.                 IISCO - Indian Iron and Steel Company
BICP - Bureau of Industrial Costs and          LCB  - local Competitive Bidding
Prices                                 LIB  - Limited International Bidding
CCL  - Central Coalfields Ltd.                NCL  - Northern Coalfields Ltd.
CHP  - Coal Handling Plant                     NEC  - North-Eastern Coalfields Ltd.
CIL  - Coal India Ltd.                        NTPC - National Thermal Power Corporation
CMPDI - Central Mine Planning and Design      CM   - Output per Manshift
Institute                              SAIL - Steel Authority of India Ltd.
CPRA - Coal Price Retention Account           SCL  - Singareni Collieries Ltd.
DOC  - Department of Coal                      SECL - South Eastern Coalfields Ltd.
ECL  - Eastern Coalfields Ltd.                TISCO - Tata Iron and Steel Company
GOI  - Government of India                    WCL  - Western Coalfields Ltd.
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding



FO OR 0CIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........I..............                ...........      1
II*  THE SCTOR                                                               I
II.THESECO  ................................................              1
A.  Energy Resources             ......................................  1
B.  The Coal Sub-sector             ...................................  2
C.  Coal Development Prospects            ............................
D.  Coal Sector Productivity and Efficiency ...............            5
E.  Coal Marketing and Distribution             .......................  7
F.  Coal Quality Improvement Measures             .....................  7
G.  Coal Pricing            ..........................................    10
H.  Role of the Bank .....................................            11
TII.  THE BENEFICIARIES ...............          ..........................  13
A.  The Coal India Group ........................O..                  13
1.  Organization and Management            .......................    13
2.  Operations . *................* * .................    15
3.  Manpower and Training *.............. ........               16
4.  Financial Position ...         .............................  17
B.  South Eastern Coalfields Ltd   ..........................         19
C.  Eastern Coalfields Ltd               ................  ........    20
IV.  THE PROJECT       o...............................................    21
A.  Project Objectives *...................................    21
B.  Project Description .u*.................................          22
1.  Gevra Mining Complex ...       .       ..........................  22
2.  Sonepur-Bazari Mining Complex          .....................  25
3.  Environmental Protection, Safety and Resettlement..          29
4.  Coking Coal Imports    o.................. ...........o      30
C.  Project Execution and Implementation ...o ........... .    31
V.  CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT ... ...............    33
A.  Capital Cost Estimates .   ............    ................       33
B.  Financing Plan .           .......................................    35
C.  Procurement and Disbursement  .        ..........................  37
This report has been prepared by Messrs. J. E. Strongman, L. Maraboli,
A. Covindassamy, and Mmes. H. Wu and M. Kutcher of the Industry Department.
Word processing services were provided by Mrs. N. Nguyen.
This document has a rstrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officid duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................................      40
A.  Coal India Ltd ...................*.....*............   40
B.  South Eastern Coalfields Ltd ........ ...................    44
C.  Eastern Coalfields Ltd        ......... .........**......    45
D.  Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari Projects ...... ................    46
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS   ................. .......................   48
A.  Economic Rates of Return       ...............................   48
B.  Resource Mobilization ............ see  ...................   49
Co Otber Benefits .....................    50
D.  Least Cost Development Program        .........................   51
E.  Project Risks ..........................................   52
VIII.   AGREEMENT  ......................                                 52
1. Energy Sector Owerview
2. Coal Demand and Supply 1984/85 - 1989/90
3. ECL and SECL Investment Portfolio
4. Fazal Coumittee Report-Summary of Recommendations
5. Measures to Lmprove Coal Quality
6.  Coal Price Schecdule
7. Scope of Work for Assistance on Workshop Design
8. Scope of Work for Assistance on Manpower Planning and Training
9. CIL Financial Statements 1980/81-1985/86
10.  Scope of Work for Assistance on Training Institute Design and
Development
11.  Resettlement Arrangements
12.  Project Management Organization
13.  Implementation Schedules
14.  Equipment Cost Estimates
15.  Procurement Schedule and List of Bank Financed Goods
16.  Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
17. Assumptions Usel in the Financial Projections
18. Pro Forma Financial Statements for CIL 1986/87-1993/94
19. Medium Term Efficiency Improvement Program and Performance Targets
(1986-1990)
20.  Pro Forma Income Statements for CIL Subsidiaries 1986/87 to 1993/94
21.  Financial and Economic Rates of Return - Assumptions and Calculations
22.  Documents Available in the Project File
CHARTS
I   Gevra Mining Complex
2   Sonepur-Bazari Mining Complex
MAP
IBIRD No. 19279R



-iii-
INDIA
COAL HINING AND COAL QUALITY IDPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:          Coal India Ltd. (CIL)
Amount:               US$340 million equivalent
Terms:                Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace at
the Bank 2tandard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:     US$180 million equivalent from GOI to CIL for a
period of 15 years, including 5 years grace, at an
effective interest rate of not less than 13.75Z per
annum. CIL to Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (ECL) and to
South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (SECL) for a period of
15 years, including 5 years of grace, at an effective
interest rate of not less than 13.75% per annum.
Project Description:  The main objectives of the project are to increase
the supply of thermal coal (to the power and
industrial sectors) and coking coal (to the steel
sector) and to improve the quality of coal available
to consumers.  The project is also designed to
support CIL in its efforts to develop and implement
efficiency improvements and, thereby, improve its
financial performance. The project will support the
institutional development of CIL by strengthening its
manpower planning and organization, by improving
training, and by improving the maintenance of
equipment through modernization of workshops. The
project consists of the development of (i) the second
phase of the Gevra mining complex to reach an output
of 10 million tons per year (tpy) of low grade
thermal coal to feed the Korba power plant; (ii) the
construction of the Sonepur-Bazari mining complex to
produce 3 million tpy of intermediate and superior
grade thermal coal; and (iii) the importation of
about 3.0 million tons of coking coal. By developing
large-scale open-pit mines, India is pursuing a
strategy of increasing coal supplies at least-cost
while promoting diversification of mining
technologies and improvements in productivity in the
coal sector. By importing coking coal India is
making-up for a shortfall in domestic supplies as
well as improving the average quality of coking coal
by blending low-ash imports with higher ash domestic



-iv-
coals. The project faces minimal technical and
marketing risks. Any possible financial risks are
mitigated by (a) CIL's efforts to improve its
efficiency and financial performance, (b) GOI's
commitment to preparing a program that would assure
CIL's future financial viability and (c) the high
priority GOI places on developing India's coal
resources in a timely and efficient manner.
Project Cost Estimate:
(US$ mllion)    --
Local       Foreign        Total
(a) Mining Component
Equipment & Spares                    82.6        113.0          195.6
Coal Handling Plant                   34.8          3.7           38.5
Land & Civil Works                    63.3           -            63.3
Engineering                            1.7           -             1.7
Pre-Operating Expenditure             10.1          0.9           11.0
Technical Assistance                    -           3.0            3.0
Duties and Taxes                      65.6           -            65.6
Base Cost                         258.1        120.6          378.7
Physical Contingencies                14.3          6.3           20.6
Price Escalation                      36.9         26.6           63.5
Working Capital                       14.0          0.7           14.7
Total Project Cost                 323.3        154.2         477.5
Interest During Construction           1.4          4.3            5.7
(b)  Coking Coal Imports Component           -         160.0          160.0
Total Financing Required           324.7        318.5          643.2
Financing Plan:
(a) Mining Component
Equity
Government of India                  188.6            -          188.5
CIL Cash Generation                   53.1            -          53.1
Total Equity                      241.6           -          241.6
Long-Term Debt
Government of India                   61.6            -           61.6
IBRD                                  21.5         158.5        180.0
Total Debt                         83.1         158.5        241.6
Sub-total                         324.7         158.5        483.2
(b) Coking Coal Imports Component
Long-Term Debt
IBRD                                    -          160.0         160.0
Total Financing Required                  324.7         318.5         643.2
__             _-_



Estiuated Disbursements:
-(US$ million)
Bank FY          1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual           91.8   110.8    36.6    37.2    32.2    26.8       4.6
Cumulative       91.8   202.6   239.2   276.4   308.6   335.4   340.0
Economic Rate of Return:
Gevra              32Z
Sonepur-Bazari     19Z
Map: IBRD No. 19279R



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested a Bank loan of
US$340 million to assist in the financing of a Coal Mining and Coal Quality
Improvement Project. The project has three main components: (i) the Gevra
mining complex which comprises a 10 million tons per year (tpy) open-pit
mine and associated infrastructure in the state of Madbya Pradesh, which
will be constructed and operated by South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (SECL);
(ii) the Sonepur-Bazari mining complex, which consists of a 3.0 million tpy
open-pit mine and associated infrastructure in the state of West Bengal to
be operated by Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL); and (iii) the import of about
3.0 millicon tons of coking coal. Both SECL and ECL are subsidiaries of
Coal India Ltd. (CIL), a GOI undertaking. The project fonss part of the
Government strategy to ensure timely supplies of adequate quality coal for
consumers in India. In particular, the project will provide for
improvement in the quality of both thermal and coking coal supplies. The
project will also support GOI's strategy to develop large-scale
economically efficient mining operations, as well as efficiency
improvements in CIL and efforts by both CIL and GOI to reestablish CIL's
financial viability. The proposed project was submitted by GOI to the Bank
in September 1984. It was appraised in March 1985 and post-appraised in
June 1985.
II. THE SECTOR
A.   Energy Resources
2.01      India is well endowed with coal resources and has moderate
hydropower potential; hydrocarbon reserves are only modest (Annex 1).
Total coal resources (excluding lignite) are estimated at over 127 billion
tons, of which 60 billion tons are considered technically and economically
recoverable at present. Coal production in 1985/86 was 153.0 million
tons. Exploitable hydropower potential is estimated at 89,930 MW, against
a 1985/86 generation from all sources of 166.6 TWh. Recoverable reserves
of oil are estimated at 187 million tons on-shore and 324 million tons
off-shore. Associated and non-associated gas reserves are estimated at
about 478 billion cubic meters (equivalent to 397 million tons of oil).
Production in 1985/86 was about 29 million tons of oil and about 7.2
million cubic meters of gas.
2.02      Energy use in India is among the lowest in the world.  Per capita
consumption of energy averages 210 kg (coal equivalent), compared with
680 kg in China and about 7,500 kg in industrialized countries. Over the
past three decades, the composition of fuel consumption has increasingly
shifted from the use of non-commercial fuels, such as vegetable and animal
waste, to commercial energy resources. At present, non-commercial fuel
accounts for less than 40% of total energy consumption, while coal accounts
for 32Z, oil and gas about 20% and primary electricity for 8Z.
2.03     The increasing reliance on commercial fuels has stretched the
capability of the energy sector to meet the energy needs of the economy and
has placed a heavy burden on the balance of payment. Recognizing the



-2-
importance of the energy sector to India's ongoing economic development,
the Government has established three main objectives, namely: to fully
develop indigenous energy resources, to improve the efficiency of energy
utilization and to limit the use of oil products to end-uses in which
economic substitution by other forms of energy, particularly coal, is not
possible. In line with this policy the Government places particular
emphasis on the development of the coal industry and the exploration for
oil and gas. Through pricing policies and rationing, the Government has
reduced the use of oil products, where this has been technically and
economically feasible, and has encouraged the use of coal. To reduce power
shortages which have been prevalent for many years and to overcome, at
least in part, the transportation problem associated with the greater use
of coal, the Government has also embarked upon a major construction program
for coal based thermal power plants located near the mines.
B.  The Coal Sub-sector 1;
2.04      Coal is and will continue to be India's most abundant domestic
energy resource. In 1985/86 coal production reached 153 million tons
making India the 6th largest coal producer in the world.  Coal presently
accounts for about 60Z of all commercial energy produced in India and even
allowing for good progress in new oil and gas discoveries, coal's
contribution is expected to remain at more than 50% over the next decade.
India's vast coal reserves will be sufficient to meet the country's needs
for the next 100 to 150 years at least.
2.05      India is a low-cost coal producer.  Operating costs average
US$13 per ton, while capital costs for mine development are in the range
US$20 to $60 per ton of annual output for new open-pit coal mines
(including mine-related infrastructure but excluding other infrastructure,
such as rail trunk lines). There is considerable variation in mining
conditions and costs among regions. The older coalfields in Bihar and West
Bengal, which contribute 55% of coal production including all of the prime
coking coal, have mostly deep underground mines in difficult geological
conditions and high operating costs (in the order of US$18-20 per ton).
Operating costs are generally lower for newer mines in other states such as
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Maharashtra. where mining conditions tend to be
easier; operating costs are in the order of US$10-12 per ton for
underground mines and as low as US$6-8 per ton for large-scale open-pit
mines. Overall, only China, South Africa and Western US mines are
competitive with India regarding average minehead coal production costs.
2.06      Coal accounts for more than half of commercial energy consumption
in India. Roughly 70% of the annual coal production are consumed by power
stations, steel, cement and fertilizer plants and the Indian Railways. The
number of consuming units is small and the relationship between them and
1/   Fuller background details on the sector and on the CIL group of
companies is provided in India Coal Sector Report (3601-IN, September
1982), Dudhichua Coal Project SAR (4714-IN, February 1984) and Jharia
Coking Coal Project SAR (5336-IN, February 1985).



-3-
the coal producers is close. The remaining 30Z of coal output are consumed
by a large number of small industrial plants, such as jute mills, paper
mills, textile mills and chemical plants, and countless buyers of soft coke
for domestic use.
2.07      The northern, western and southern states of India account for
significant share of coal consumption resulting in substantial coal
transportation from coalfields in West Bengal and Bihar to consumers in
Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab and from coalfields in Madhya
Pradesh and Bihar to consumers in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan.  This
regional imbalance in coal production and demand places great stress on the
railways. Coal makes up more than 35% of the railway's total freight
traffic and more than 75Z of coal output is shipped to consumers by rail.
Road transport and, to a very limited extent, coastal barges and ropeways
account for the remaining 25%. Given the projected growth in supply and
demand, the regional imbalance is expected to become more acute by the end
of the Seventh Plan. Under the Dudhichua Coal Project (Loan 2393-IN,
February 1984), a coal transportation study has been undertaken to address
the capabilities of the rail system for meeting the growing transportation
requirements of coal. The study addresses the issue of how to introduce
state of the art rail technology for coal movement and how to improve the
operational efficiency and capacity of the existing coal transportation
system and the adequacy of present management and coordination policies
regarding coal movement. The results of the study include specific
recommendations regarding the improvement of (i) procedures and lineside
facilities for loading and unloading coal railway wagons, (ii) railway
motive power and rolling stock for coal movement, (iii) certain sections of
railway line and marshalling yards, and (iv) coal linkage and distribution
arrangements. The recommendations are now being considered by the various
Ministries and organizations involved following which implementation
decisions will be taken.
2.08      The coal industry is intensifying its exploration efforts in
southern and western areas, where reserves are explored in response to the
rapid growth of demand by consumers in western India, particularly in the
Bombay area, and in Gujarat. To meet the need for new coal developments in
adjacent locations, coal exploration priorities have been shifted to the
states of Maharashtra and western Madhya Pradesh. This is a sound approach
because it is expected to make more readily available, in the coming
decade, coal supplies for western markets without the long transportation
linkages from the distant eastern coalfields. However, the quality of coal
reserves varies widely and both reserves and supplies of high quality
thermal and coking coals are limited and tend to be concentrated in eastern
India. For the most part, therefore, new coalfields will tend to be of
lower grade coal.
2.09      Over 90% of coal production in India is in the hands of Coal
India Ltd. (CIL), which is wholly owned by GOI. CIL has seven
subsidiaries, of which six are producing companies, Eastern Coalfields
Ltd. (ECL), Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (BCCL), Central Coalfields Ltd. (CCL),
Western Coalfields Ltd. (WCL), Northern Coalfields Ltd. (NCL), South
Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (SECL), and one is a mine planning concern--Central
Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI). Four of these subsidiaries



-4-
(namely ECL, BCCL, CCL and WCL) were established in 1975. The other two
(SECL and NCL) were established in 1986 (see para. 3.05). Coal production
also takes place at North Eastern Coalfields (NEC) in Assam which is an
operating division of the CIL holding company. In addition to CIL, there
are three other coal producers and one major lignite producer. The coal
producers are Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. (SCL) which is jointly
owned by the Central Government and the State Government of Andhra Pradesh,
and captive coking coal mines of the privately-owned Tata Iron and Steel
Company (TISCO) and the Government-owned Indian Iron and Steel Company
(IISCO). Lignite production in India is in the hands of the
Government-owned Neyveli Lignite Corporation (which produced nearly 7
million Lons in 1985/86), and lignite production has recently started by a
state-owned company in Gujarat. The Department of Coal (DOC), Ministry of
Energy, is in charge of policy making in the coal and lignite sector and of
monitoring and coordinating production, distribution and prices of coal,
including the production targets, annual investment and operating budgets
of the Government-owned coal companies. The Planning Commission reviews
the various production and consumption targets and investment programs. It
also approves linkages between new mines and major consumers.
C.   Coal Development Prospects
2.10      GOI's coal development strategy emphasizes the need to ensure
timely and adequate supply of satisfactory quality coal with economically
efficient mining and transportation systems. Specifically, GOI is now
concentrating on a multi-track coal development strategy:
(i) rapid expansion of lot-cost thermal coal production through
developing large coal fields with shallow deposits, using
increasingly efficient surface mining technologies and equipment
while paying due regard to coal quality, safety and environmental
protection;
(ii) increasing the supply of coking coal (and thereby reducing the
need for imports) through rehabilitating and mechanizing deep
underground prime coking coal collieries and, where possible,
developing mechanized, open-pit coking coal mines;
(ii-) lowering production cost and improving the productivity of
underground mining operations by new initiatives to improve labor
productivity and reduce surplus employment in older, labor-
intensive underground mines; by accelerating the introduction of
mechanized mining approaches, where appropriate; and by
debottlenecking efforts including improving mine transport
systems to match increased production capacities;
(iv) improving coal quality to consme-rs by establishing stricter
quality controls, of more coal handling plants (for thermal
coals), improved washery operations (for coking coals), as well
ae improved adherence to mine-consumer linkages;



-5-
(v)  improving the supply of coal from existing coalfields (as well as
reducing its cost) to distant consumers through rationalizing
mine-consumer linkages, streamlining coal transportation systems
and emphasizing coal exploration and development in western and
southern India to reduce the average hauling distance and
introducing mechanization, where appropriate; and
(vi)  refining the current methods used in assessing the coal
requirements of both major and minor coal users to reduce the
costly build-up of pithead stocks.
2.11      Coal supply and demand are projected to increase at an annual
growth rate of about 9Z during the Seventh Plan (compared with 5.6Z per
year during the Sixth Plan2/) which will result in a total production and
consumption of about 225 million tons and 232 million tons respectively in
1989/90 (Annex 2). The gap between supply and demand will be provided by
coking coal imports (3-4 million tons of imported coking coal with 10 ash
being approximately equivalent to 5-7 million tons of domestic coking coal
with 21X ash). During the period of the Seventh Plan (1985/86 to 1989/90),
CIL expects to implement an investment program of about Rs 53 billion
(US$4.0 billion) in 1986/87 terms, of which about 20% would be foreign
exchange requirements. This represents an expansion, in real terms, of 30%
over investment expenditures in the Sixth Plan and is due to increases in
the numbers and scale of projects ana in their implementation costs. The
program is very ambitious but can be achieved provided CIL continues
improving its project implementation procedures and, once improvements are
demonstrated, ensures their dissemination throughout the CIL Group. The
program consistent with GOI's budgetary allocations for the sector. An
earlier review of CIL's overall investment program revealed that with a few
exceptions, the investment program is following the least cost development
path. That finding has been verified by a detailed review of the
investment portfolios of the project executing agencies, ECL and SECL
(Annex 3).
D. Coal Sector Productivity and Efficiency
2.12      At the time of nationalization CIL inherited a very large labor
force, with low productivity. CIL's original strategy had been to improve
its efficiency through (a) the extensive reconstruction of the old
underground operations including the introduction of highly mechanized
mining techniques and (b) the selective development, wherever possible, of
large-scale open-pit mines. CIL is presently undertaking a program to
rationalize its underground production through the reorganization of small
mines into larger units including the introduction of some degree of
mechanization for both coal extraction and transportation. This program is
a sound strategy and is expected to contribute to reducing unit production
costs, as well as providing increases in production. There are presently
24 such reorganization/mechanization projects in different stages of
implementation throughout the CIL Group. Underground production from
mechanized mines is expected to increase to about 35% in the early 1990s
2/ By comparison GDP growth was almost 5% per year.



-6-
from 5Z at present. A program to improve the design, management and
operating procedures of highly mechanized underground mines is being
undertaken by BCCL urder the Jharia Coking Coal project.
2.13      While the program to improve efficiency by mechanizing
underground operations offers much promise for the future, a more immediate
problem is that labor productivity as measured by output per manshift (OMS)
in existing underground mines has been declining (from 0.57 in 1978/79 to
0.5_ in 1985/86 for CIL) partly due to a lack of efforts to improve
efficiency in the unmechanized underground mines. In order to rectify this
situation, CIL has implemented a number of initiatives including (i) a
hiring freeze for existing underground operations, (ii) disciplinary
measures (including firing workers) to reduce absenteeism among key workers
such as loaders, (iii) no longer providing jobs to near relatives of
retirees, (iv) debottlenecking investments to increase production in a
particular colliery from the same workforce, (v) reduced hiring of
resettled land owners, (vi) transfer of underutilized labor from old mines
to new projects, and (vii) training and upgrading of skills. A program of
measures to improve the performance of loss-making mines for ECL hE been
agreed with the Bank (para. 3.18) and a Medium Term Efficiency Improvement
Program was prepared in December 1986 and is just starting to be
implemented by CIL (para. 6.10). In addition, new measures to improve work
practices and encourage voluntary retirement of workers are also under
preparation and other measures are recommended in a recent report by the
Committee on Eastern Coalfields (see para. 3.18).
2.14      CIL also has a number of initiatives to improve the efficiency of
it6 open-pit mining operations. CIL has progressively moved to larger
equipment sizes and is now using 85-ton dump trucks and 10 yd3 shovels in
many operations and is introducing 120-ton and 170-ton dump trucks and 20
yd3 shovels at selected projects. For large-scale open-pit mines, output
per manshift is not a meaningful measure of productivity because it can
vary widely from mine to mine depending on many factors including,
importantly, the stripping ratio (i.e. the amount of overburden to be
removed to produce one ton of coal) and the distance from the point of
excavation to where the overburden is dumped or the coal unloaded.
Instead, efficiency is generally measured in terms of the availability and
utilization of equipment. Equipment availability reflects the amount of
out-of-service time due to repair and maintenance. Equipment utilization
reflects the amount of time that available equipment" is not in use due to
shift changes, safety checks, queueing for fuel, tea-breaks etc.  In the
past few years CIL has taken several steps to improve its open-pit
efficiency. Even so, CIL's equipment availability and utilization are
presently still below international standards due to poor maintenance
procedures, spare part shortages, inadequate workshop facilities and
ineffective work practices. CIL is giving high priority to improving its
open-pit efficiency including using foreign technical assistance to improve
maintenance and operating procedures (which is financed under the Dudhichua
project), introducing -hot seat' changes for major equipment and using
overlapping shifts to improve utilization, and arranging for suppliers to



-7-
open spare parts depots in major coalfields. In addition, new initiatives
are being prepared to improve the availability of imported spare parts and
to deal with the problem of equipuent which is out of commission due to
the backlog of repairs.
E.   Coal Marketing and Distribution
2.15      The distribution of coal in India takes place within a set of
administrati-on procedures which are set by the Government. Under these
procedures, each major coal consumer (thermal power stations, cement,
fertilizer and steel plants, as well as the railways) is linked to one or
more collieries. These linkages, as well as the allocation of coal
supplies, are then reviewed in quarterly meetings of the Special Linkage
Committee and in monthly operational meetings between consumers, the
railways and the coal companies. While these linkages do attempt to match
new coal consumers with new mines, steadily rising pithead stocks and
persistent complaints from major consumers about inadequate coal qualities
or late shipments have led to growing concern within the Government about
the efficiency of this system. In its review of the Sixth Five Year Plan,
the Planning Commission proposed the adoption of a systems approach' in
determining coal production, transport, consumption and stocks. Since the
increase in pithead stocks (which reached a peak of 30 million tons in
March 1985), was to a large extent due to overly optimistic demand
projections for several large consuming sectors, the Planning Commission
emphasized the need for irnprovements in the demand forecasting technology
that is currently used. Under the Dudhichua Coal Project, the DOC has
commissioned a study to review the current practice of establishing
consumer-producer linkages, identify weaknesses in the current system and
suggest improvements with the help of a linear programming model that would
cover the entire system of existing linkages. The linkage study will use
data and results from the coal transport study (para. 2.07). Data
collection is now complete and various moduiles are operational.  Initial
runs of the complete model are being made and the identification of
sub-optimal linkages and initial proposals to realign linkages are expected
by May 1987.
F.   Coal Quality Improvement Measures
2.16      A major issue facing the coal industry is the unreliable and
deteriorating quality of its coal. This leads to major additional
operational and maintenance expenditures by its major consumers (the steel
industry, the power sector, cement and fertilizer plants), due to increased
system inefficiencies and plant downtime as well as higher transport cost
(since consumers need to ship greater quantities of coal to make up for
lower coal quality). For coking coal supplies, CIL is implementing a set
of short and medium term measures established under the Jharia Coking Coal
Project to improve the quality of prime coking coal supplies and, in
particular, to lower the ash content. The short term initiatives include
(i) testing of certain disputed coals by Central Fuel Research Institute;
(ii) elimination of substandard coals and more intensive picking
arrangements; (iii) deployment of more experienced and qualified personnel
for washery operation; (iv) a technical assistance effort to improve the



-8-
performance of the prime coking coal washeries; and (v) utilization of
premium quality Assam coal for blending purposes. Medium term measures
include (i) increased capital expenditure for washery improvements, (ii)
installation of rotary breakers at certain washeries; (iii) upgrading of
slurry by froth flotation at Dugda I and II; (iv) modification to
Patheridih Washery; (v) trials with prescreening jigs at Barora Washery;
and (vi) development of new areas of superior quality prime coking coals.
2.17      Projections prepared at the time of the Jharia Coking Coal
Project indicated that coking coal imports of about 1.8 million tpy would
be required to make up an expected shortfall between the availability of
and requirement for prime coking coal between 1986/87 and 1989/90. As part
of the efforts noted in para 2.16, certain seams of substandard coking coal
have been recently excluded from feed to the washeries with the result that
the shortfall is now expected to be about 3 million tpy of prime coking
coal. By comparison, actual imports averaged about 1.5 million tpy in 1984
and 1985. The imported coal has an average ash content of about 10Z
compared with about 21% for domestic prime coking coal, thus the imports
also assist in improving the average quality of washed coal feed to the
steel plants. A monitoring program is being established at each of the
blast furnaces using the imported coal to quantify the benefits in order to
optimize the blend.
2.18     With regard to thermal coals, the most frequent complaints refer
to (i) the supply of oversized coal, (ii) the presence of extraneous
material, such as shale and stone, and (iii) the increasing ash content _'
both raw thermal coal and washed coking coal. While part of the
deterioration of thermal coal quality is due to the development of new
coalfields with low grade coal, it is also affected by (i) the shift
towards open cast mining, (ii) the increased mechanization of coal mining,
Ciii) the lack of coal handling plants, (iv) the comparatively poor
performance of the two coal companies (ECL and BCCL)P *hich are the major
suppliers of superior quality coking and non-coking coal, and (v) at times
poor coordination between the mining companies, the transport companies,
mainly the Indian Railways, and the power sector which results in coal
shipments being diverted to unlinked users.                &
2.19      In July 1982, GOI set up a high level committee (the Fazal
Committee), representing the mining, railways and power sectors, to study
these and related issues in the power sector. The committee submitted its
report in late 1983 and its major recommendations which relate to the
railway and power sectors, as well as the coal industry, have been accepted
by the Government (Annex 4). GOI has agreed to provide the Bank with a
detailed implementation schedule for the Fazal Committee recommendations by
March 31, 1988. In the meantime, a number of the recommendations, which
are directly under the control of CIL, have been implemented by CIL who is
making a concerted effort to eliminate consumer dissatisfaction with the
dispatch and quality of both thermal and coking coals (Annex 5). In line
with the recommendations of the Fazal Committee, CEL has developed a two



-9-
track product improvement program concentrating on (i) increasing quality
control through greater supervision of mining operations; and (ii)
increasing the proportion of coal that passes through coal handling
plants3/ (CHPs), where it is screened, crushed and sized and then is
subject to weighing on dispatch (through weighbridges).4/ A critical
element in the quality control program is the linkage of the performance
evaluation of each colliery manager to consumer complaints that are
attributable to his colliery. The program also established a Quality
Control Department in each subsidiary of CIL to coordinate the monitoring
of coal quality of each mine under its jurisdiction, to advise mine
management on how to respond to consumer complaints and to report weekly to
top management on its actions. Under its CHP and weighbridge program, CIL
has a staged plan and budget to eventually have all its product handled and
weighed on site. Power stations complaints regarding unsatisfactory coal
quality declined from an average of 50 per month in 1984/85 to 12 per month
in 1985/86 but increased to 28 per month in 1986/87 (of which three per
month are complaints at the loading point and 25 at the destination).
CIL - Complaints Recei'ed from Power Stations Regarding Coal Quality
(Average l,imber of Complaints per Month)
1984/85             1985/86         1986/87
50                  11              28
Source: CIL.
2.20      Traditionally, coal producers have supplied coal to consumers
without specific supply contracts. In the first half of 1985 CIL concluded
bulk supply contracts with almost all State Electricity Boards (SEB) and
with the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). In the years ahead CIL
intends to conclude such contra.ts with major buyers in other sectors.
These contracts provide for (i) payments to be based on the results of
joint sampling, (ii) bonuses or penalties in case the quality of the coal
shipment differs from the grade stipulated in the contract, and (iii)
invoicing of customers on dispatch of each consignment (with the SEBs) or
on a daily basis with NTPC. The contracts provide for joint sampling of
the coal (by CIL and the concerned power house) and for penalty/bonuses to
apply if the coal quality moves into a different grade than that specified
in the linkage. Certain improvements to these contracts are being
contemplated; the most important are (i) the use of automatic joint
sampling at the delivery point, considering that coal shipments are
3/  In 1985/86, 58Z of India's total coal production was processed by 50
major and 100 mini-coal handling plants operating in the subsidiaries
of CIL. The Government plans to increase the share of coal being
processed in CHPs to 75% by 1986/87, 85% by 1987/88 and about 90% by
the end of the Seventh Plan period.
4/ CIL is currently carrying out a test program to determine the most
cost-effective technology for de-shaling raw coal.



-10-
frequently diverted from their originally intended destinations; (ii) the
use of analytical procedures for the determination of the moisture content
of coal as delivered based on its -free moisture content' rather than on
its 'equilibrium moisture content-5/; (iii) the introduction of
alternative formulations of the current bonus/penalty pricing structure,
such as smaller quality ranges or bonuses/penalties using a sliding scale,
and (iv) the provision of price incentives for beneficiation of non-coking
coal. The joint sampling arrangements in the contracts have been an
important element in identifying unsatisfactory coal quality and in
monitoring CIL's progress in improvinig coal quality. CIL has confirmed
that it will review the usefulness of the coal contracts by October 1, 1987
and will exchange views with the Bank shortly thereafter on possible
improvement to the contracts.
G.   Coal Pricing
2.21      Coal prices are set by the Government on a pithead basis.  The
Government's basic pricing policy for public enterprises is to ensure
financial viability and to provide for a reasonable rate of return on
capital employed under conditions of efficient operation. GOI has agreed
to review coal pr-ces periodically in line with the above pricing approach
and with agreements made under the Dudhichua and Jharia projects to ensure
the financial viability of CIL and provide increasing resource mobilization
in the sector. The present coal price schedule is for seven grades of
thermal coal based on useful heat value and eight grades of coking coal
based on coking qualities and ash content as shown in Annex 6. Consumers
also pay certain statutory levies and sales taxes, which :verage 12-30% of
the pithead price (Annex 6) as well as transportation costs to the point of
consumption. Coking coal prices receive a premium over thermal coal which
takes account of the relative scarcity and higher costs of production for
coking coal as compared with thermal coal. The differentials for higher
grades of both coking and thermal coal have been substantially increased
compared with lowr- grades of coal in the recent price increases. This is
an important imp. ;ement as it brings the relatively scarce better grades
of coal more in liae with their opportunity cost. A separate schedule is
also provided for high grade thermal coals from the coalfields of ECL
reflecting its better quality.
2.22      Recognizing that mining costs are relatively higher in West
Bengal and Bihar (where the coalfields operated by BCCL and ECL are
located) than in other regions due to difficult mirlng conditions,
infrastructure constraints and other factors beyond the producer's control,
in March 1983 the Government introduced a retentioq pricing system for the
CIL group.6/ Under this system, each CIL subsidiary is annually assigned
an internal accounting price based on estimated production costs and
5/ The -equilibrium moisture content- refers to the intrinsic moisture
contained in coal and does not reflect increases in the moisture
content due to careless use of water sprays to reduce coal dust or
exposure to rain during stocking, loading or transport.
6/ This pricing change, which is implemented through the Coal Price
Retention Account (CPRA), was 'n line with the recommendation in the
Coal Sector Report (3601-IN), September 1982.



-11-
efficiency standards for that subsidiary. These production and costs
standards are revised each year assuming improvements in operating
performance. They are, therefore, designed to induce more cost efficient
operations. So far, the retention pricing system has been partially
successful in stimulating the management of ECL and BCCL to improve
performance and reduce losses. However, the year-to-year adjustments in
retention prices appear to be made somewhat on an ad-hoc and arbitrary
basis. Further work presently being undertaken by the Bureau of Industrial
Costs and Prices (BICP) on the coal industry's cost structure (see para.
2.23) should provide the basis for improving the retention pricing system.
2.23      Since nationalization of the coal industry in 1975, coal prices
have been revised on seven occasions including the most recent price
revision, which took place in January 1986. As a result of these
increases, average coal prices approach long-run marginal cost for
non-coking coals and import parity for coking coals (after allowing for
adjustments for port handling, inland freight and quality differentials).
Therefore they seem to be at an appropriate level in terms of economic
efficiency. The last two increases (in January 1984 and January 1986) were
based on the recommendations of reviews carried out by the Bureau of
Industrial Costs and Prices (BICP) and led to price levels broadly In line
with efficiency pricing criteria. More recently the Government has again
requested the BICP to undertake a detailed study of coal pricing. BICP's
basic tasks included examining the efficiency of various coal mining
operations to derive production cost standards, and reviewing alternative
principles and procedures for setting minehead coal prices and producer
retention prices. The results of this work are expected in mid 1987. In
addition, the Department of Coal is considering possible improvements in
the approach to prices for washed coking coal which are presently
negotiated between CIL and SAIL based on raw coal prices and normalized
washing costs.
H.  Role of the Bank
2.24      Since energy will continue to be a critical factor in India's
economic development, and since coal will continue to provide about half of
India's incremental commercial energy products to the year 2000 and beyond,
GOI has requested the Bank to include a series of coal projects in the
lending program. The strategy so far has been to concentrate on the CIL
group of companies given their importance to the sector and to undertake at
least one lending operation to develop a new highly mechanized mine in a
major coalfield with each of CIL's coal producing subsidiaries. Such
projects are considered to have high payoffs since they involve important
improvements in efficiency through the transfer of state-of-the-art mining
technology to CIL, as well as relatively large increases in production. In
the context of these lending operations, the Bank group addresses
institutional improvements in the coal industry, as well as sector-wide
issues (such as coal pricing) and sector coordination issues regarding coal
transport and the quality of coal, which are closely linked to the
performance of other sectors (railways, power and industry) and the economy
as a whole. More specifically, the Bank group's assistance in the coal
sector is focused on:



-12-
(a) operational efficiency-to improve the efficiency of coal mining
operations through the introduction of state-of-the art
technology for the development of new large-scale open-nit and
underground mines, as well as upgrade existing labor-intensive
underground mines through the introduction of efficient work
practices and appropriate intermediate technology;
(b) institution building-the aim is to strengthen the management and
finances of the coal industry and ensure the long-term financial
viability of CIL by the introduction of improved management and
cost control practices and by greater emphasis on internal
resource mobilization, appropriate pricing policies and
investment allocations based on the principle of least cost
development; and
(c)  intersectoral coordination-to achieve greater efficiency in the
distribution and use of coal resources through the introduction
of measures to (i) enhance coal quality, (ii) reduce the cost of
coal transport, (iii) increase the reliability of coal shipments
and (iv) ensure the availability of adequate coal transport
capacity.
2.25      The Bank group's involvement in the coal sector began with a loan
for a coking coal project to the Indian Iron and Steel Company (IISCO) for
US$35 million (Loan 290-P-IN, dated August 9, 1961). The Bank group
resi'ed its activity in 1980 with a review of India's coal sector (India
Coal Sector Report No. 3601 IN). This review addressed issues related to
coal marketing, pricing, investment and financing. It also facilitated the
policy dialogue with GOI on coal pricing and resource mobilization issues,
the results of which are detailed in the Country Economic Report (No.
4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983). Specific measures affecting coal pricing
and coal transportation were included in the Dudhichua Coal Project (Loan
2393). This project also provides for the institutional support of CIL in
the operation of large scale open cast mines, project management and
budgeting and cost control. The project is being implemented on schedule.
The Jharia Coking Coal Project (Loan 2498) supports a sectoral program
a*med at improving the quality of domestic coking coal supplies to the
steel industry, as well as for further institutional strengthening of CIL
in the design, management and operating procedures of highly mechanized
underground mines and in addressing specific issues in shaft sinking and
stowing to prevent surface subsidences. Delays have occurred in project
implementation due to slippage in land acquisition and in shaft sinking.
The shaft sinking difficulties are largely resolved but land acquisition
progress is slow. CIL is working with state and local officials to find
ways of expediting the land acquisition.
2.26      GOI has proposed further Bank group financing of projects to
increase the production of both thermal and coking coals over the next
several years. The Coal Mining and Coal Quality Improvement Project is the
third of these operations which are designed to support GOI's development



-13-
strategy and CIL's efforts to increase production, improve efficiency and
reestablish its financial viability. This project brings the Bank's
involvement to two more of CIL's operating subsidiaries (SECL and ECL) as
well as to two more major coalfields (Korba and Raniganj). The project
provides for sector-wide improvements in thermal coal quality and for
improvement of coking coal supplies to the steel industry by blending high
quality imported coking coal with lower quality domestic supplies.  The
project also provides for institutional development for the CIL group in
training and manpower planning and to ECL regarding the introduction of
highly mechanized open-pit mining (ECL presently has little mechanized
open-pit mining). The project supports efficiency improvements in CIL
(including, in particular, ECL's old), underground mining operations where
labor productivity is extremely low with a view to improving CIL's
financial performance. Future lending is expected to comprise further
projects to develop large highly mechanized mines in important new
coalfields (such as Talcher or Karanpura) as well as to help rehabilitate
old, inefficient underground mining operations (especially in ECL and BCCL)
to improve efficiency and reduce costs. It is also planned to
progressively update the earlier coal sector study which may lead to
sector-related lending. Lending operations, together with sector work,
will strengthen the policy dialogue that has been established regarding
sectoral issues such as coal pricing, transportation, distribution, and
coal quality and will also support the implemen.ation of the results of
studies undertaken under earlier projects to provide institutional
improvements within CIL.
III. THE BENEFICIARIES
A. The Coal India Group
1.   Organization and Management
3.01      The Coal India group was established in 1975, as a holding
company (CIL) with five subsidiaries. CIL operates -:emi-autonomously under
the direction of an 11-member Board of Directors which is headed by a
Chairman-Managing Director appointed by the President of India. CIL's
senior management is appointed by GOI. In addition to setting general
policies for its subsidiaries and undertaking other managerial functions
typical of a holding company, CIL directly manages the financial resources
of the Group overseeing the investment program and arranging for all
long-term financing. CIL handles procurement of major capital equipment
for its subsidiaries as well as all foreign procurement. It is also
responsible for administering the coal retention price system for the
purpose of internal accounting. For these reasons, CIL was designated as a
primary beneficiary of the previous two Bank loans and the same arrangement
is recommended for the proposed Project.
3.02      CIL subsidaries operate under the direction of a Board of
Directors, headed by a Chairman-Managing Director, appointed by the
President of India. The subsidiaries' senior management down to the



-14-
Director level is appointed directly by 'OI. Within the subsidiaries,
mining is organized into small regional areas, each one under
the supervision of an area manager. Presently the subsidiaries operate
nearly 400 mines organized in about 50 areas with an average production of
nearly 3.0 million tons per year (mtpy) per area. A more detailed
description of SECL and ECL is provided below (paras. 3.14 to 3.18).
3.03      CIL is the largest coal company in the world, and has a vast and
complex organization. Nevertheless, the coal sector is still highly
centralized and highly controlled. The actual autonomy of CIL and the
subsidiaries is limited by price control, investment control and staffing
policy control (wages, terms of employment, appointment of senior staff) by
the Government. The effect on the coal sector productivity has tended to
be adverse. Recently, the Government has embarked on a cautious
decentralization, with the setting of operational objectives for each of
the subsidiaries, and holding the management responsible for achieving
these objectives. The trend toward more managerial autonomy and
decentralization is expected to be strengthened by the establishment of a
new budgetary system. As part of its efforts to improve management
performance, and in particular financial discipline and control, CNPDI and
the Indian Institute of Management (Ahmedabad) have undertaken studies of
the budgetary and cost control systems of CIL and its subsidiaries for the
purpose of strengthening the accountability of senior staff to the upper
management, and allowing more decentralization in decision making.  The
results of the studies, which address the definition of cost and profit
centers, basic procedures, reporting formats, budget formulation, control
mechanisms and corrective actions are now being implemented on a trial
basis at selective mines.
3.04      In order to improve the delivery of its large investment and
expansion program CIL has taken measures to strengthen its project
management practices by upgrading the status of project managers and by
establishing a project function within each subsidiary reporting to a
Froject Technical Director. Since its inception, CIL has made progress in
strengthening its managerial capabilities. However, there has been a
continuous change in CIL senior management with a consequent effect of
changing priorities and strategies. While some management changes are both
necessary and desirable, there is a need to improve management continuity
to ensure that past progress is maintained and that the potential benefits
of initiatives presently being undertaken are fully realized. The rapid
expansicei of the sector in the past decade has also stretched the
availability of qualified, experienced engineers and managers. CIL is
concerned that too many managers are concentrated in headquarter positions
to the detriment of field operation, and is reviewing its management
structure with the aim of reducing the number of managers in headquarters
of each subsidiary vis-a-is the number of management positions in the
field.



-15-
2.   Operations
3.05      In order to meet the demand for coal, CIL has succeeded in
increasing production from 101 million tons in 1980/81 to 134 million tons
in 1985/86. As part of its strategy CIL has emphasized the development of
new open-pit mines and the proportion of open-pit coal production has risen
from 37% to 55% in the same period. Until April 1986, CIL had four coal
producing subsidiaries-BCCL, ECL, CCL and WCL.  Since CIL's creation in
1975, production has increased strongly in WCL and CCL which jointly
accou-ted for 66% of coal production in 1985/86 and also have a
predL inance of open-pit production. By comparison production has scarcely
increased at all in BCCL and ECL (21 million and 24 million tons production
respectively in 1985/86), both of which are still predominantly underground
mining companies. The rapid growth of CCL has resulted in part from the
development of the Singrauli Coalfield which is located about three
hundred km west from CCL's headquarters in Ranchi (Bihar). Similarly, the
rapid growth of WCL has been due in part to the development of the Korba
Coalfield in the region of Bilaspur (M.P.) which is located over 200 km
east from WCL's headquarters in Nagpur (Maharashtra). For several years,
the Singrauli coalfield has been a separate operating area of CCL with its
own Director-in-charge and Bilaspur has been a separate operating area of
WCL also with its own Director-i n-charge. Recognizing that the operations
at Singrauli and Bilaspur are becoming large enough for them to become
independent entities and that the relative geographical isolation from
their respective headquarters can be detrimental to effective management,
CIL and GOI decided, effective April 1, 1986, to establish two separate new
subsidiaries: Northern Coalfields (NCL), consisting of the Singrauli
division of CCL, with an expected annual production of 13 million tons
saleable coal in 1986/87, and South Eastern Coalfield Ltd. (SECL),
consisting mainly of the Korba, Sohagpur, Jamuna-Kotwa divisions of WCL,
plus the Orissa area of CCL, with an expected annual production of 35
million tons saleable coal in 1986/87. As such SECL will have the largest
production of the individual CIL subsidiaries. Henceforth, CIL will have
six operating subsidiaries rather than four as previously. The Bank has
supported this reorganization.
3.06      Given the increasing importance of open-pit mining operations,
CIL has contracted under the Dudhichua loan the services of Metchem
(Canada) to provide technical assistance regarding operational efficiency
and operating practices in open-pit mines.   Metchem completed its field
assignment and submitted a final report to CIL in 1986.  CIL is proposing
to extend the Metchem contract to cover implementation of their
recommendation for NCL and SECL. CIL has also commissioned a study of the
design, construction, maintenance of haul roads in open-pit mines for which
a draft report has been submitted by the Central Road Research Institute
and is presently being reviewed. In order to introduce some
standardization into its open-pit operations, CIL has adopted a series of
.standard' truck! shovel combinations. While most of the combinations seem
sound, there may be scope for improvement and CIL is undertaking a review
of the standard combinations to see if improvement is warranted.



-16-
3.07      The rapid development of open-pit mining within CIL has placed
new requirements on CIL's materials management system and workshops as well
as on the power system. In the past, CIL was able to establish its parts
inventory requirements on the basis of experience with the equipment they
were generally using. However, as new larger and more complex pieces of
equipment are introduced at a rapid rate, CIL's materials management system
is faced with the twin problem of both a major expansion in the amount of
spare parts which must be carried plus difficulties of estimating what
would be an appropriate level of spare parts for equipment with which they
have relatively little experience. At present, CIL's material inventory
records are maintained in the form of a cardex system at central and
regional depots. While the system is reasonably accurate, it is relatively
ineffective for identifying a spare part which may be in shortage at one
location but available at another; furthermore, with the proliferation of
spare parts, the maintenance of the recording system itself becomes an
increasingly difficult task. CIL recognizes that such an outmoded system
can no longer support the needs of their rapidly expanding equipment
fleet. CIL has commissioned a study by consultants, for designing and
implementing a computerized materials management system. In addition,
given the importance of reliable power supplies for the operation of its
equipment, CIL is preparing an overall plan of its power requirements on a
coalfield-by-coalfield basis. This will be completed in mid-1987 and will
provide the basis for CIL to plan adequate power supplies for its needs in
conjunction with the power utilities.
3.08      CIL also recognizes that their equipment fleet has outgrown
workshop capabilities. Presently even the most advanced workshop within
CIL is not fully capable of dealing with the latest equipment. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that CIL would retain technical
assistance, by December 31, 1987, to help design state-of-the-art workshops
to fully meet the requirements of their open-pit mining equipment. These
consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank procedures and would
have terms of reference, qualifications, and experience satisfactory to the
Bank.   An outline of the scope of work for this assistance is provided in
Annex 7.
3. Manpower and Training
3.09      The efficient management and deployment of its labor force is
critical to CIL's performance. CIL is the second largest employer in
India, after Indian Railways. At year-end 1986, CIL provided employment to
about 670,000 personnel of which nearly 2% were managers, about 16% were
supervisors and specialized staff, 15% were skilled workers and 67% were
unskilled/manual workers. Employment distribution among the six producing
subsidiaries was as follows: ECL (28%), CCL (15X), WCL (12%), SECL (15Z),
NCL (2%) and BCCL (26%). The balance (2%) is in CMPDI, NEC and CIL
Headquarters. Employment was proportionately higher than production in ECL
and BCCL because of the predominance of labor intensive underground mining
operations. As a result, the output in tons per manshift was much lower in
these two companies (0.57 and 0.64, respectively) compared with the other



-17-
subsidiaries (CCL - 1.06, 1CL - 1.10, SECL - 1.50 and NCL - 7.00). As
noted in para. 2.13, CIL is addressing this problem and is taking measures
to control employment and increase labor productivity. With these measures
and better administration, CIL manpower is expected to increase to about
690,000 personnel in 1989/90 (a 1.1% per annum increase), while production
is expected to increase by 11% per annum. While manpower inventories and
records are available at each mining area, CIL does not have a consolidated
inventory of its manpower on an overall basis. Over the past two years,
CIL has initiated a program at CIL headquarters in Calcutta of establishing
a computerized manpower inventory base. While this represents a first
step, CIL recognizes the information is very rudimentary and that the
present process is rather slow. At negotiations, CIL agreed to retain
technical assistance by December 31, 1987, to help design and Implement a
manpower inventory system suited to its needs, employing consultants under
terms of reference and with qualifications, experience and selection method
satisfactory to the Bank. A scope of work for the manpower assistance is
attached as Annex 8.
3.10      The supply of suitably trained, skilled manpower will be one of
the major constraints to CIL meeting its investment program's production
targets over the next five years. CIL directly operates seven central
training centers specialized in management, open-pit and underground mining
technologies and coal beneficiation. In addition, the subsidiary companies
operate 16 regional training centers covering managerial, technical and
vocational training activities plus about 50 area training centers for
statutory, vocational safety courses. During 1984/85, the training
programs in these centers comprised about 5,000 courses given to 110,000
participants of which about 88Z were workers and the rest managerial and
supervisory staff. The rapid development of open-pit mining within CJL has
stretched the limits of CIL's training capabilities, and the availability
of adequate training facilities for both operations and maintenance staff
is becoming ax limiting factor on the on-going development of majo-
coalfields, such as Singrauli, Korba and Raniganj. Furthermore, while CIL
has endeavored to strengthen its training activities over the past years
through a program of foreign collaboration, especially with the British
coal industry, training activities are largely undertaken on a pieceteal
basis and there is no comprehensive overview of training needs or how they
should be met. Further, the training function is badly understaffed and
has only rudimentary facilities. In order to strengthen the organization
of its training function and to develop a satisfactory training action
program, CIL will retain consultants under terms of reference and with
qualifications, experience and selection procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. This program would complement the assistance for manpower planning
(para. 3.09). The scope of work is outlined in Annex 8.
4. Financial Position
3.11      The financial performance of CIL over the last five-year period
is summarized below and given in fuller detail in Annex 9.



-18-
CIL - Summary of Financial Performance 1980/81 to 1985/86
(Rs million)
1980/81   1981/82    1982/83    1983/84   1984/85  1985/86
nm  Sale (million tons)        94       102        109        116      126       129
Net Revenues                11,3W     14,209    17,063    18,624    23,690    24,594
Operaticg EermWs            10,273    12,138    14,240    18,480    20,668    23,540
Dcepration                     738      951      1,344      1,716    2,069    2,497
interest                      626       778      1,110      1,324    1,733    2,158
Net T.ncame (tos)             (337)     342        369    (2,469)     (780)   (3,557)
Internal Cash Gemeratimn      401      1,276     1,713       (753)    1,289    (1,060)
Capital zeminditus           3,412     5,809     7,142      8,390    7,877     8,427
Log-Tem DEbt                12,557    13,196    17,461     19,273    21,737    25,284
Acmulated Losses            (8,461)   (8,119)    (7,370)    (9,765)  (10,533)  (14,422)
Net Equity                   2,385     5,483     9,542     11,534    15,034    15,701
Net Tne (Ioss)/Revemaes %     (3.0)     2.3        2.2      (13.3)    (3.3)   (15.1)
Oraent Ratio                   1.1      1.3        1.3       1.2       1.3      1.2
LT Debt/Equity Ratio         84:16     71:29     65:35      63:37    59:41    62:38
Debt Serice Couerage           0.9      1.4        1.4       0.3      1.04      0.5
Smrce: CT.
3.12      Up to 1980/81, CIL had been increasing losses constantly as a
result of a low level of coal prices and an emphasis on increasing
production without due regard to cost effectiveness. This trend was
reversed in 1981/82 when CIL showed for the first time a positive net
income with an adequate level of internal cash generation, long-term debt
service coverage and current ratio. The financial position improved
further during 1982/83. However, during 1983/84 CIL showed a financial
loss and a deterioration of the main financial indicators due to the
back-dating of a national wage and salary settlement associated with a new
four year collective bargaining contract. The wage settlement was
back-dated to January 1983 and an offsetting price increase was only made
in January 1984 causing a large loss for CIL which forced delaying debt
repayments to GOI. CIL was able to reduce its losses to Rs 780 million in
1984/85 following the January 1984 coal price adjustment (which increased
CIL's sales realization per ton by 17%). However, CIL's financial
performance deteriorated again in 1985/86 and losses reached Rs 3,557
million.
3.13      The accounts of CIL, as well as its subsidiaries, are audited
annually by statutory auditors (a partnership of independent chartered
accountants) appointed by the Government of India in consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India. These arrangements are
satisfactory. Statutory auditors are appointed for a period of three years
at the end of which they must be changed. At the completion of their
audit, the statutory auditors express their opinion on the fairness of the
financial statements, which is included in the Company's annual report.



-19-
Although the auditing standards and procedures followed are those laid down
by the Indian Institute of Chartered Accountants, higher standards
regarding the audit of internal control procedures are advisable. An
additional audit is conducted by the Audit Board of the Office of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India. This is both a financial and a
management audit and the comments of the Audit Board are also published
with the financial statements of CIL.
B. South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (SECL)
3.14      SECL is the subsidiary of CIL responsible for the development and
implementation of the Gevra mine. As noted in para. 3.05, SECL was formed
in April 1986 and is the outgrowtb of the old WCL. SECL's first year of
operation will be completed on March 31, 1987. In 1985/86, WCL produced
about 49 million tons of saleable coal of which about 30 million tons were
from the Bilaspur region (which was split off to become SECL) and about 19
million tons from the Nagpur region (which remains under the control of
WCL). SECL, has its headquarters at Bilaspur, and operates coalfields in
Korba, Sohagpur, Jamuna, Kotma, Chirimini Baikuntpur, Jhagrakhand plus the
Ib River coalfield in Orissa. All of SECL's production is thermal coal.
3.15      Open-pit mining comprises about 55Z of SECL's production, mainly
from large-scale highly mechanized operations centered on the Korba
coalfield. Underground mining accounts for 45% of SECL's production.
SECL's underground mines are newer, shallower operations with much easier
mining conditions than those of BCCL and ECL. The output per manshift of
SECL's underground mines is about 0.80 compared with 0.45 and 0.53 for the
underground mines of ECL and BCCL respectively.
3.16      SECL is in a relatively sound financial position.  WCL, the
forerunner of SECL, has been able to earn moderate profits since 1979/80.
In 1985/86, WCL/SECL's total production costs (including depreciation and
interest charges) were is 171 per ton of saleable coal, which is about 78%
of the average for the CIL group (Rs 219 per ton of saleable coal). The
financial position of WCL from 1982/83 to 1985/86, is summarized below:
SECL and WCL - Summary of Financial Performance
(Rs million)
WCL        WCL         WCL      WCL/SECL
Fiscal Year           1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86
Coal Sales (million tons)      32.6        38.3       44.1        46.7
Sales Revenues                 4,632       5,591      7,659     8,017
Operating Expenses             3,380       4,663      5,334      6,518
Contribution to CPRA             524          11      1,137      1,009
Net Income a/                    142         121         69       (991)
Internal Cash Generation a/      472         590        715        (20)
Investment                     1,965       2,779      2,759     2,847
a! axter contribution to Coal Price Retention Account (CPRA).



-20-
C.  Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (ECL)
3.17      ECL will be undertaking the development and future operation of
the Sonepur-Bazari mine. ECL has its headquarters at Sanctoria, West
Bengal and operates about 100 mines in the Raniganj coalfields in West
Bengal and Mugma Rajmahal coalfields in Bihar. These are older, deep
minefields which are the main source of superior quality thermal (Grades
A-C) coal in India. Superior quality thermal coal is in short supply in
India and is sought after by industrial consumers. ECL is therefore
attempting, to the extent it can, to Increase the supply of such coal.
However, the coal seams are found in very difficult, mining conditions.
During 1985/86, ECL produced 24.0 million tons of saleable coal of which
23.6 million tons were thermal coals (96Z) and the balance, 0.4 million
tons coking coals (2Z). Underground mining accounted for 68% of ECL's
production, which is substantially higher than the average for CIL overall
(45Z).
3.18      ECL has much higher production costs than the average for CIL
mining operations and has incurred heavy losses in the past. Surplus labor
and low labor rroductivity are the most critical elements in ECL's high
production costs which derive from a number of factors some external to
ECL and others under ECL's control. The factors largely outside of ECL's
control include geological conditions which result in deep, difficult
mining conditions; power outages which cause production interruption and
cutbacks in pumping capabilities (necessary to keep the deeper mines
operating during the monsoon season); and a government-sanctioned national
mine-workers agreement which constrains ECL's ability to layoff surplus
labor. Within ECL, however, attempts to increase production were made with
little, if any, regard for cost control and for many years, there appears
to have been little concerted effort by either the management or the labor
force to improve ECL's performance. Some efforts have been made to improve
the labor situation in the past two years including severe restrictions on
new hiring and on overtime work. In 1985, the "Chari Committee' was
appointed to study ECL and make recommendation on measures to establish
ECL's viability within a given time period. The Committee's report which
is presently under consideration by the Government containe a wide ranging
set of innovative measures to improve ECL performance, several of which are
already being implemented by ECL. Management has taken a number of steps
in an immediate effort to improve efficiency and cost consciousness in its
operations. New hiring of skilled workers needed for new projects has been
strictly limited to no more than 50% of retirees and ECL expects a net
reduction of 1,700 workers in 1986/87. ECL is undertaking technical audits
of twenty underground mines which are incurring the largest losses which
are the basis for rehabilitation plans to improve the performance of these
mines. ECL will implement these rehabilitation measures under a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank and will submit progress reports on a regular
basis for the Bank to review. In addition, ECL will conduct technical
audits of a further twenty mines with large losses. These wasures should
help improve ECL's performance in future years. In 1985/86, ECL's total
production costs (including depreciation and interest charges) were Rs 307
per ton of saleable coal, which is about 40% higher than the average for
the CIL group (Rs 219 per ton of saleable coal).



-21-
ECL - Summary of Financial Performance
(Rs million)
Fiscal Year             1982/83     1983/84     1984/85    1985186
Coal Sales (million tons)        21.3        21.5        21.8          22.7
Sales Revenues                  3,589       4,142       5,305         5,719
Operating Expenses              4,034       5,110       5,509         6,013
Contribution from CPRA            419         334         803           553
Net Income a/                    (553)     (1,279)        (137)        (700)
Internal Cash Generation a/      (244)       (902)        396           141
Investment                        994       1,159       1,273         1,372
a/ After contribution from Coal Price Retention Account (CPRA).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The main objectives of the project are to improve the quality of
coal available to consumers and to increase the supply of thermal coal (to
the power and industrial sectors) and coking coal (to the steel sector).
The project will help meet the demand for thermal coal through the
development of two large-scale open-pit mines in Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari
-with an ultilmate combined capacity of 13 million tons per year. The
project will help improve the quality of coking coal supplies to the steel
sector by supporting the importation of low ash-coking coal (average 10O
ash). The imported coal will be blended with indigenous supplies (average
21Z ash) thereby lowering the average ash of the blended mix which will
contribute to improving blast furnace productivity and efficiency in the
steel industry. The project is alac designed to improve sector management
through the implementation of a number of coal mining, handling and
transportation measures which should also contribute to improved coal
quality. In addition, the project will improve the efficiency of existing
coal mining operations and strengthen the managerial, commercial and
financial practices of both CIL and two of its four producing subsidiaries,
ECL and SECL, through the implementation of a series of efficiency
improvement and institutional development measures. By including training
programs and training institute design in the project and by introducing
state-of-the-art mining technology, the Bank will contribute to CIL's
efforts to improve the efficiency of its mining operations. The inclusion
of various efficiency-related and institutional development measures are
aimed particularly at containing production costs in existing
labor-intensive operations as well as strengthening the supply of skilled
workers and managers to meet the needs of the industry's development
program. Through its involvement in the project, the Bank will support
GOI's objectives of maximizing the development of indigenous energy
resources; of alleviating power shortages by expanding the country's



-22-
thermal power generating capacity; and of providing power plants with the
required coal supplies through the accelerated development of large-scale
open-pit mines.
B.   Project Description
1.  Gevra Mining Complex
a.   Scope
4.02      The scope of the proposed Gevra mining component  consists of
implementing the second stage of development of the Gevra open-cast coal
complex. This will complement components already included in the first
stage: coal handling plant, train loading facilities, and a railway link
to the Korba power station. The second stage will increase output to 10
mtpy of raw coal, from a designed capacity of 5 mtpy in the first stage,
for which construction and actual coal production were started in 1980 and
1981 respectively. The complex will include additional mining equipment,
an in-pit conveyor for coal transport and crushing, a marginal expansion of
service facilities, a training center and a township as its main
components.
b.  Location, Geology and Reserves
4.03      The Gevra open-cast mine is located in the center of the Korba
coalfield, on the western bank of the Hasdeo river. This coalfield is in
the Madhya Pradesh state, about 90 km east-northeast of Bilaspur (Map
19279R). The altitude of the area is about 300 m above the sea level, and
the topography is fairly flat. Drainage is towards the northeast-east
during the rainy season, mainly by the Ahinar and Hasdeo rivers. The
infrastructure provided during the first stage is well developed, and the
coalfield is situated at a distance of about 10 km from the main
Bombay/Calcutta railway in a region only sparsely populated with Korba
being the major town.
4.04      The climate of the Korba coalfield is tropical, with very hot
summer months (March-June) during which temperatures reach 46C (115'F).
The average annual precipitation is about 1,040 mm, which fall mostly
during the monsoon season (June-September).
4.05      The Korba coalfield extends over an area of about 520 sq km, of
which Gevra and the project site cover 42 and 10.8 sq km, respectively.
Coal bearing strata occur in the Permian stratigraphic formations, locally
called Gondwama. Typically, they contain sub-bituminous and bituminous
coals, with low contents of sulphur (maximum 0.7%) and phosphorous (about
0.01%), and high ash contents (20-35%). The strike of the formation is
generally east-west and the dip about 5-10O towards the south.
4.06      Although the Korba region has been geologically examined since
the late 1800s, systematic investigations were only initiated by the Indian
Bureau of Mines in 1955. These were followed by drilling campaigns under



-23-
the supervision of the National Coal Development Corporation (NCDC) in
1963-65 and 1972-74, and by CMPDI that completed over 140 holes with a
total length of about 16,000 m since 1977. Total mineable reserves are
estimated at 589 million tons of coal broken down by main seam structures
in table below:
Gevra Project - Mineable Reserves
Mineable Reserves a/
Seam                                        (million tons)
Upper Kusmunda                                      59
Lower Kusmunda (top split)                         378
Parting                                             50
Lower Kusmunda (bottom split)                      102
Total                                              589
a/ In situ mineable reserves less mining losses.
The project areas are tectonically faulted. However, the available
geological and hydrogeological information derived from geological mapping
and drilling, and from operation of the adjacent Kusmunda mine is
considered sufficient for the purpose of reserve calculation and mine
design. At the proposed mining rate of 10 million tpy, reserves already
delineated allow for about 60 years of mining.
c.   Mining
4.07      The general characteristics of the area and of existing open-pit
mine designs for the proposed project are very favorable. The first 30
years of mining will have a very low stripping ratio of only 0.9 m3 per ton
of coal, reaching a depth of 180 m with final pit slopes of about 450,
which is satisfactory to deal with the hydrogeological conditions of the
area, assuming an adequate safety factor. The mine has been designed to
produce 10 million tpy of raw coal with ash content and heating values
ranging between 26.5-44.5% ash and 2,110-4,236 kcal/kg on a useful heat
basis, indicating coal grade ranges from D to G.
4.08      Waste strata and coal will be drilled, blasted, and subsequently
removed by different material handling systems. The overburden will be
loaded and hauled with four 10 m3 electric rope-shovels and a fleet of
thirty- four 120/85-ton trucks. If suitable, 20 m3 shovels may also be
used. The coal will be loaded with 2.3 m3 hydraulic shovels, and hauled by
35 t trucks to two conveyors. These will be equipped with feeder breakers,
and will transport crushed coal to a coal handling plant, which is
presently under construction, with a storage bunker of 30,000 t capacity,
which will feed two train loading silos of 2,600 t capacity each. Coal
release has already started under the first stage of the project with an
output of 50,000 t in 1981/82. It has increased to a present level of
about 3 million tons, and is planned to reach the designed capacity of 10
million tpy during 1991/92. Mine planning has been done in sufficient
detail for feasibility purposes and equipment selection. The selection of
main equipment for mining of coal and waste rock material is basically



-24-
sound. Also, the selection of hydraulic shovels for coal is satisfactory
given the presence of partings, shale bands and geological faulting.
Adequate training and maintenance programs have been prepared to support
operations of the mining equipment. On the other hand, further design
refinements will be undertaken to delineate a more detailed short- and
long-term sequence of plans, and to determine fluctuations in coal and
waste material release, as well as changes required by materials handling
systems and equipment. further complementary work will also be executed in
respect of geotechnical aspects, for more detailed analysis of assumed
slope stability and safety factors of strata and hydrogeological
conditions. This work should be complete and ready for Bank review not
later than December 31, 1989, and will not affect activities concerning
procurement, mine development, and establishment of ancillary
installations.
4.09      Mine development work and in-pit road maintenance will be
performed by a fleet of dozers, wheel loaders and graders. A main sump and
associated installations will be established for adequate pit drainage
during the monsoon season. Pumping capacity appears adequately estimated,
on the basis of information from the adjacent Kusmunda mine. A dragline
will be provided to clean the sump.
4.10      The mine and related facilities will work 300 days per year, 3
shifts per day and 8 hours per shift. The total manpower requirements at
full production of 10 million tpy are summarized in the table below:
Gevra Mine-Manpower Requirements
Senior Management                  68
Junior Management/Supervisors     419
Workers                         3,453
Total                         3,940
A preliminary training program has been prepared for the Gevra complex.
However, the training facilities at Gevra are presently inadequate to
fulfill the training program. Furthermore, even the most advanced CIL
training facilities (at Singrauli) are insufficient for CIL's rapidly
advancing needs. CIL will retain technical assistance under procedures
satisfactory to the Bank for the design and development of a training
center for the Korba coalfield (Annex 10) by December 31, 1987. SECL have
confirmed that they will provide the Bank with a training program for the
Gevra project by January 1, 1988 and with annual training reports for the
Gevra project on July 1 of each year, addressing the previous fiscal year's
training results compared with the program.
d.   Infrastructure
4.11      Infrastructure facilities such as warehouse, unit maintenance and
eervice installations of adequate size and capacity will be constructed
north of the open-pit, adjacent to the main road which connects Gevra with
the Kusmunda mine and the town of Korba. However, since workshop plans



-25-
were considered insufficient, SECL will, provide adequate unit and central
workshop facilities to meet requirements from the project based on the
findings of the workshop Technical Assistance (Annex '0). A new road
bridge will be built across the Hasdeo river to improve access during the
monsoon season. Its completion is estimated for 1988/89. Water
requirements, installed electrical load, annual power consumption and
specific power consumption are summarized in the table below:
Gevra Mine - Water and Power Requirements
Industrial Water (m3 per day)              1,735
Potable Water (m3 per day)                 2,240
Installed Electrical Load (NW)              25.7
Power Consumption per ton of Coal (kWh)      4.4
4.12      The Gevra complex will receive power from MPEB by means of two
overhead 33 KV transmission lines and four sub-stations. Industrial and
potable water requirements will be met from the Hasdeo river at about 10 km
from the project site. To the extent possible, additional water required
for dust suppressing in mine roads will be taken from the main in-pit
sump. These arrangements are satisfactory. GOI will ensure adequate
electric power and SECL will ensure adequate potable water supply to the
project.
4.13      Provision of housing and service facilities for the work force
will follow CIL's existing policies and guidelines. Accordingly, a new
township will be constructed for the complex. It will consist of 2,674
houses and apartments, and will include schools, shops, a 22-bed hospital,
community center and clubs. These arrangements are considered
satisfactory. SECL will provide the Bank with satisfactory schedules for
the construction of housing and service facilities for the Gevra project by
January 1, 1988 and imp]ement them as part of the project.
2.   Sonepur-Bazari Mining Complex
a.   Scope
4.14      The scope of the proposed Sonepur-Bazari mine component comprises
the development of an open-pit mining complex with a designed capacity of 3
million tpy, inciuding a coal handling plant and surface infrastructure
consisting of a railway spur, power lines, repair and maintenance shops,
warehouses, training facilities, offices and a townsite.
b. Location, Geology and Reserves
4.15      The Sonepur-Bazari open-pit mine will be located in West Bengal,
in the north-eastern part of the Ranigani c,alfield. The mine will have an
ultimate capacity of 3.0 million tpy saleabVe coal of which about 1.5
million tpy will be Grade D coal to feed the Kologhat power station and the
balance (1.5 million tpy) will be Grade C coal for industrial users. This
coalfield is at about 35 km and 14 km from the townships of Durgapur and
Ranigani. The area is about 84-108 m above the sea level, and is mostly
flat. Drainage is from west to east dui ..ng the rainy season, mainly by the



-26-
Bonbahal Jore and the Kumarkhala streams. The infrastructure is well
developed, and the coalfield is only sparsely populated with the village of
Bazari located adjacent to the project site.
4.16      The area has a tropical climate with maximum temperatures
averaging between 34-470C (93-117F) during summer (March-June), and
25-28-C (77-82F) during winter (November-February).  The difference
between day and night temperatures during December is about 10-14C
(18-25F). The annual average rainfall is about 1,180 mm, with about 90%
falling during the monsoon season (June-September).
4.17      The Raniganj coalfield extends over an area of about 1,550 sq km,
of which the project site covers 19 sq km. The rock types are in broad
manner classified in two main groups, i.e., the basement Archaean
granite/gneiss/schist complex, and the Quaternary and more recent sediments
with coal bearing strata and waste rock, mainly consisting of sandstone,
shale and conglomerates. The strata in the Sonepur-Bazari area dips only
1-5 towards the south, but steeper dips are observed in the vicinity of
major faults and near the splits of thick seams. Typically, these seams
contour coal of C and D quality, with moisture, ash and calorific values
ranging between 6.2-8.7% H20, 17.0-26.9% ash, and 4,940-5,675 Kcal/kg on a
useful heat basis, respectively. The Sonepur-Bazari deposit was discovered
on the basis of geological studies started in 1976 by CMPDI, which were
followed by successful drilling of 10 exploration holes between 1977/78,
under the supervision of the GSI. Subsequently, a total of 67 boreholes
with overall length of about 10,000 m were drilled, resulting in a density
of 7.2 boreholes per sq km, which is satisfactory. Total mineable reserves
are estimated at 186 million tons of coal. The project area is disturbed
by faults and split of seams. However, the available geological and
hydrogeological information, derived from geological investigations and
from operation of the adjacent Kumarkhela small open-pit, is sufficient for
the purpose of coal reserve calculations and preparation of mine designs.
At the proposed mining rates the existing reserves could support operations
during a period of over 60 years.
c.    Mining
4.18      The Sonepur-Bazari open-pit will have an overall stripping ratio
of 5.13 m3 of waste per ton of coal and a depth of 270 m after the first 25
years of mining.  Its final pit slopes are planned  at 37e, which is
satisfactory to deal with the hydrogeological conditions of the area,
assuming an adequate safety factor. The mine has been designed to produce
3 million tpy of raw coal of types C and D. ECL is planning to blend a
small amount of marginal quality Grade C coal with the Grade D coal.
ECL will undertake certain tests when production is initiated to confirm
that such blending is an economic proposition.
4.19      Overburden will be drilled with seven 250 mm rotary drills, and
blasted using aluminized slurry explosive. Removal of material will be
executed with one 24 m3 dragline, six 10 m3 electric rope-shovels and about
thirty-five 120-ton trucks as main handling equipment. Coal and thinner
waste rock partings after drilling and blasting will be loaded with seven



-27-
2.5-3.2 m3 hydraulic shovels operating with a fleet of about fifty
50/35-ton rear dumpers and 32-ton bottom dumpers. Coal will be transported
to rotary breakers, from where the -200/ +50 mm portion of superior quality
material will be sent to a 10,000 ton storage bunker of grade C steam coal
for supply to industrial consumers. On the other hand, due to expected
impurities, the -50 mm portion of this same material will be sent to a
separate 10,000 ton storage bunker of grade D slack coal, where it will
join inferior quality material, which will be sized under 200 mm for
shipment to the linked power plant. The bunkers will feed two train
loading points using reclaim and wagon loading conveyors.
4.20      Coal release from the area already started with development in
1982 of the Kumarkhela small open-pit, which is located in the
north-western corner of the Sonepur-Bazari deposit. Its production reached
about 0.3 million tons of coal during 1985/86. On the other hand, coal
release from the Sonepur-Bazari project will not start until 1989/90,
increasing slowly to reach the designed capacity of 3 million tpy only
seven years later in 1996/97. Mine planning has been done in adequate
manner for feasibility purposes. Additional work will be done to further
optimize the mining sequence, to detail the fluctuations in the output of
coal and waste material and the possible changes in the materials handling
system and equipment. Additional geotechnical testing will be executed for
more detailed analysis of assumed slope stability parameters and safety
factors. ECL will complete this testing and analysis, and provide the Bani.
with its geotechnical reports not later than December 31, 1989.
4.21      The selection of main equipment for mining of coal and waste rock
material is satisfactory. Specific mairtenance and training programs to
support this equipment will be prepared.
4.22      Mine preparatory works and in-pit road maintenance will be
performed by a fleet of dozers, wheel loaders and graders. For drainage, a
main sump located in the bottom of the pit, and associated installations,
will operate with a 2,600 m3/hr pumping system, consisting of nine units.
In addition, slurry pumps will be used to deal with muddy water and clean
the sump. This is satisfactory since estimated pumping requirement are for
1,656 m3/hr. The larger capacity has been selected because of insufficient
hydrogeological data. However, assumptions made for calculating water
inflow are conservative and realistic.
4.23      The mine and coal handling facilities will work 300 days per
year, 3 shifts per day, and 8 hours per shift. Manpower requirements at
full production of 3 million tpy are summarized in the table below:
Sonepur-Bazari - Manpower Requirements
Senior Management                    81
Junior Management/Supervisors       314
Workers                             904
Total                          1,299



-28-
4.24      ECL has the intention of implementing a substantial training
program for the project. Although specific plans have not yet beer.
formulated, this effort will include establishment of training facilities,
assistance from ECL's Central Training Centre, visits to other mines, and
execution management and operator training courses. CIL will retain
technical assistance by January 1, 1988 for the design and development of a
training center for the Raniganj coalfield (Annex 10). ECL have confirmed
that they will provide the Bank with a satisfactory training program and
training reports for the Sonepur-Bazari project. The training program
should be prepared and completed for Bank review not later than January 1,
1988. In addition, ECL confirmed that it would submit annual training
reports to the Bank on July 1 of each year comparing training results with
the program including respective targets for the previous fiscal year.
d. Infrastructure
4.2c      Infrastructure facilities, such as warehouse and unit repair and
maintenance workshops will be established adjacent to the pit. ECL will
provide adequate unit and central workshop facilities, taking into account
the results of the workshop Technical Assistance (Annex 8), to meet
requirements from the project. At present, power is received at the nearby
Bankola sub-station, which has an installed transformer capacity of 3 MVA.
Provision of additional power for the project is planned in two stages.
First, further power supply will be increased progressively to meet a
demand of 6 NVA by 1988/89. For this purpose, an additional transformer
will be installed at Bankola, and a new transmission line will connect this
sub-station with the project site. In the second stage, additional
connections will be provided to meet a demand of 17.2 NVA by 1999. The
design has been completed satisfactorily for the first stage, and is still
in progress for the second stage. GOI will ensure adequate electric power
supply to the project and ECL wlll ensure the timely development of the new
transmission lines and substations.
4.26      ECL plans to construct a new railway spur of approximately 11 km,
to the northern part of the deposit, for the transport of coal from
Sonepur-Bazari. Despite the existence of an old rail spur in the south of
the proposed mine, this approach will permit transporting coal from
adjacent deposits and will eliminate a difficulty with adverse gradients in
the existing spur. Finally, potable and industrial requirements of water
for the project are estimated at 0.63 and 0.67 million liters per day.
Additional water for haulage ramps will be obtained from the nine sump.
These arrangements are satisfactory. ECL will ensure adequate potable
water supply to the project.
4.27      Provision for housing and service facilities will be made for 784
workers. The location for these residences coincide with the location for
an integrated township being proposed for workers of ECL, adjacent to
housing for Kumarkhala. Other buildings included for the project are
offices, training center, and welfare and community services. All
buildings have been located in barren areas to avoid blocking mining
activities. These arrangements are considered satisfactory. ECL will



-29-
provide the Bank by January 1, 1988 with satisfactory schedules for the
construction of housing and service facilities for the Sonepur-Bazari
project and implement them as part of the project.
3.  Environmental Protection, Safety and Resettlement
4.28      The planning of environmental protection measures to be
undertaken is vested in CMPDI and guided mainly by the Water (Prevention
and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control
of Pollution) Act of 1481. Both Acts prescribe measures and tolerance
limits that are in line with acceptable standards in the industry.
Environmental management is the responsibility of CIL through its
subsidiaries. CIL, SECL (for Gevra) and ECL (for Sonepur-Bazari) will
ensure that design, construction and operation of their project components
are carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental standards,
as well as adequate safety standards (para. 4.30). Environmental
arrangements are considered satisfactory. In general, water and air
pollution problems are not expected to be severe. Their quality will be
monitored regularly. Dust, which is considered the major pollution hazard,
will be controlled by sprinkling haulage roads with water, and using
suppression and extraction equipment at silos and railway loading
facilities.
4.29     Both of the areas where the Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari mines are
located have relatively gently undulating terrain with rather thin
vegetation, and only small quantities of topsoil. Soil conservation will
be done whenever feasible. For this purpose, at Gevra a survey is being
executed by the Soil Survey Organization of India. Reforestation
activities were started in March 1985. About 110,000 trees have been
planted to create 'green-belts- along main roads and between industrial
facilities and residential areas. Both mines will have equipment for land
reclamation. While the general approach to reclamation is satisfactory
detailed plans are still being finalized. ECL and SECL have confirmed that
final plans will be submitted to the Bank by January 1, 1988. Erosion
control and prevention measures, such as placing of rip rap, turfing and
re-vegetation will be undertaken on waste dumps and exposed slopes. This
will also assist in reducing surface water run-off. In addition, the dumps
will be set in benches to avoid spills. This is satisfactory.
4.30      Mine safety, operational practices, and design criteria are laid
down in the Mine Act of 1952 and the Coal Mines Regulations of 1956, and
supported by monthly circulars from the Director General of Mine Safety
(Ministry of Energy) as well as by Acts regulating human health and mine
rescue work. They are considered adequate. The responsibility to follow
the regulations is vested in the safety organization within each CIL
subsidiary. On a corporate level, a "Safety Board- chaired by the Chairman
of CIL is meeting quarterly to review adequacy of current safety practices
and to introduce corrective actions, whenever necessary. Safety procedures
and practices proposed for Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari are already used by CIL
in other open-pit operations, where safety performance is adequate. This
aspect has been extensively assessed and is being improved With input of
foreign consultants during the execution of technical assistance programs
funded by the Bank.



-30-
4.31      The overall accident rate in CIL has greatly improved since CIL
was formed (fatality rate and serious injuries decreased 35% and 51Z
respectively between 1974/75 and 1985/86). However, the rates in CIL are
still relatively high when compared with other major international coal
producers. This is mainly attributable to most of its underground mining
operations being very labor intensive, and using multi seam mining methods
with a low degree of support from modern mechanical and electrical
systems. Further, the large number of mine working faces and of workers
makes proper safety supervision/management cumbersome, particularly during
periods of rapid expansions. The accident rate is expected to decrease
further over time, as CIL's production share from open-pit mines
Increases. In order to satisfy the Bank of the adequacy of safety measures
and the incidence of occupational disease, CIL will provide the Bank with
statistics on mine-related accidents and occupational diseases, every year
beginning July 1, 1988.
4.32      The mining complexes are to be developed on land that is
generally sparsely populated. About 1,370 families will need to be
resettled at Gevra and 740 families at Sonepur Bazari as a result of the
mining operations. The resettlement is being undertaken in three phases at
Gevra, where it will be complete in 1991, and two phases in Sonepur Bazari
where it will be complete in 1993. In addition to cash compensation, ECL
and SECL are providing assistance to the resettled families in terms of
land, housing and shipment of household effects. Resettlement is most
advanced at Gevra where up to now 500 families have already been settled in
a new village with satisfactory facilities. CIL will undertake
resettlement of the people affected by the project in accordance with
resettlement plans agreed with the Bank. SECL and ECL will each appoint a
community development officer and will coordinate the resettlement
activities with the respective State Government officials. It is expected
that jobs will be available to the resettled families associated with the
mining development. At Gevra (where there are large mining operations
already in existence), employment has already been provided to over 800 of
the people involved in resettlement. In addition, other employment
opportunities will be generated in mine construction, ancilliary
small-scale industries and agriculture. Further details are provided in
Annex 11.
4.   Coking Coal Imports
4.33      The loan will provide finantcing for importing about half of
India's coking coal requirements over the next two years. Procurement of
the imported coking coal will be carried out by GOI. The importation of
coking coal will: (i) fill the existing gap between the projected demand
of the local steel industry and domestic supply of prime coking coal.
(This gap, now estimated at about 3 million tpy between 1986/87 and
1989/90, is about 100% higher than the previous two years due to improved
quality control of raw coking coal production including the exclusion of
some substandard coals as feed for washeries); and (ii) support the
efficient utilization of the steel industry's existing plant and equipment,
by preventing shortages of coke, which would result in a reduced blast
furnace capacity utilization. In addition, the imported coal will improve



-31-
the average quality of coking coal supplies because the imported coal has a
lower ash content (10Z average) than the local product (21% average). This
improvement in coking coal feed, and hence in coke production, will result
in increased blast furnace productivity and utilization.
C. Project Execution and Implementation
4.34      The Gevra project component will be implemented by SECL under the
direction of a Project General Manager reporting to the Project Director of
SECL. The Project Management Unit consists of staff from SECL and CMPDI,
organized as shown in Annex 12. The Project General Manager is supported
by managers responsible for (i) general engineering and mining; (ii)
scheduling and cost control; and (iii) administration. Responsibility for
project implementation is direclty under a Deputy Project General Manager.
The total project organization comprises about 200 positions, already
staffed and mobilized. The Project General Manager has been appointed and
is adequately qualified and experienced. SECL will establish a Project
Management Unit, and that it will ensure that organizational structure,
staffing, powers and responsibilities of the Project Management Unit shall
be such as necessary for timely and efficient implementation of the
project. Moreover, in accordance with standard practice adopted within CIL
after the first coal project with Bank financing, SECL is preparing a
project implementation manual following terms of reference already agreed
with the Bank. SECL will exchange views with the Bank on this manual, and
will adopt it by January 1, 1988.
4.35      Similar arrangements are being made for the execution of the
Sonepur-Bazari project component (Annex 11), which will be implemented by
ECL. While the project organization of this component has not yet been
officially approved, several of its main officials are already assigned to
the project. Such is the case of its Project Officer who is expected to be
appointed as Project General Manager, and principal staff concerning
finance, personnel, and mine operations and maintenance. A preliminary
project manual for implementation of this project was prepared by CMPDI in
July 1984. ECL will revise it. By January 1, 1988 ECL will establish a
Project Management Unit similar to that for Gevra (para. 4.34), and it will
finalize, exchange views with the Bank and adopt a project implementation
manual.
4.36      Each Project Management Unit will be directly responsible for all
activities related to detailed engineering, procurement of local goods
(excluding mining equipment) and services, equipment erection and
commissioning, and construction and mine development. Procurement of
mining equipment and other imported plant and equipment will be carried out
by the CIL Central Procurement Organization, in direct. collaboration with
the respective Project General Managers, who will provide progress reports
to the Project Directors of the subsidiaries and to the CIL Project
Monitoring Unit. A detailed and satisfactory schedule for procurement
actions has been prepared, and procurement documents have been reviewed by
the Bank. To minimize the risk of delays the GOI will promptly grant
authorization to import foreign goods required for the project, and will
promptly make available the foreign exchange required.



-32-
4.37      The implementation schedules for the Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari
components of the project are given in Annex 13. They are based on
detailed analysis of different critical activities, and on-going
construction work at Gevra. They are realistic. For the Gevra mine,
procurement of main mine equipment for delivery in 1987/88 is on the
critical path. Status of main activities are summarized as follows: (a)
all required land is presently in possession of SECL; (b) overburden
removal started in 1981; (c) access roads and some residential and
office/service buildings have been constructed; and (d) construction of the
coal handling plant is well advanced, and one of the two train loading
systems is fully operational. Finally, during 1984/85 about 2.6 million m3
of overburden and 2.5 million tons of coal were mined. Project activities
are at an earlier stage for the Sonepur-Bazari mine, where initiation of
procurement of electric rope-shovels and 120-ton trucks are on the critical
path. No implementation work has yet started. Arrangements for land
acquisition for the project are well advanced. ECL has acquired 208
hectares (ha) of land, required for the infrastructure and the first five
years of mining. However, ECL does not yet have possession of about 68 ha
of that land which remains in the hands of the local authorities awaiting
final processing and handover to ECL. Handover of the remaining Land is a
condition of disbursement for the Sonepur-Bazari component of the project.
Disbursement for the Sonepur-Bazari component is limited to a maximum of
US$8 million until ECL confirms that it has taken possession of the 68 ha
of land. Additionally, ECL gave assurances that it will ensure the timely
availability of land for the railway siding by December 31, 1988, and land
for mining operations beyond 1995/96 by December 31, 1992.
4.38      Coal release and waste rock output are summarized in the
following tables.



-33-
Production Schedule and StripPing Ratio
Coxd         Waste Pb&        Stc#*Euig htio
Project Coui1et    Year       l(dJl   M3) ()  v     PE tu of coal)
* 1981/82       0.05            0.27             5.4
* 1982/83       0.32            0.66             2.1
* 1983/84       1.44            1.76             1.2
* 1984/85       2.52            2.60             1.0
* 1985/86       2.73            3.50             1.4
1986/87       3.10            5.00             1.6
1987/88       4.25            6.50             1.5
1988/89       5.50            7.20             1.3
1989/9D       7.20            8.50             1.2
1M0/91        8.50            9.00             1.1
1991/92      10.00            9.00             0.9
onwrds       10.00            9.00             0.9
1986/87         
1987/88                        -
1988/89                       3.0
1989/90       0.4             4.02            10.0
1990/91       1.1             4.02             3.7
1991/92       1.5             6.27             4.2
1992/93       1.5             6.27             4.2
1993/94       1.5             6.27             4.2
1994/95       1.5             8.04             5.4
1995/96       2.5            13.73             5.4
196/97        3.0            16.39             5.5
& oammds
4.39      Productivity indicators for the mining complexes will include not
only total quantities of coal and waste material removed but also
utilization and availability for all major pieces of equipment, consumption
of explosives, fuel, lubricants and other constmables.
V. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A.   Capital Cost Estimates
5.01      The total financing requirements for the mining component (which
consists of the Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari complexes) including physical
contingencies, price escalation, working capital and interest during
construction are estimated at US$483.2 million (Rs 6,282.6 million), of
which about US$158.5 mill-ion is in foreign exchange. Detailed capital cost
breakdown for major equipment and plant are given in Annex 14 and
summarized below.



-34-
qm            - z       ma
____ ___ __ _           --   _                     __---- tA fOJt---------
I"   fordo   Ta          fb=ll..                lb 161k  TBS 1 31.
Him s qmi a 8p     _      597.3  570.1  1,167A   31.5   753.5  1.145.0    938J 1,323.6  2,312A    76.1  101.9  1760
Qil Mdlki plot            35.6   3.4    4.0   86.3    9.3    95.6    451.9   46.7   SMA    34.8    3.7   3LS
Lad & Cil1 P's           440.8      0    440.5  1M4.0       0   154.0   594.        0    MA    45.7      0   457
I'm P MP- aLdl lbt        61.0      0     61.0  1663        0   163  219.3          0    29.3   17.6      0    17.6
l_Ip3 hd4w                14.7   60.0    74.7   2.9    67.5    94.        41.6  127.5   1".1    3.      9.6   13.0
_m1nt                     11.9     -      11.9   10.2      -     10.2    2L.1      -     22.1    1.7     -     1.7
ftrmla  &1buu             31.3    1.7    33.0  10.0   10.0   110.0    131.3   11.7   143.0   10.1    0.9   11.0
1bduic.tidst               -    19.3     19.5     -     19.5    19.5       -    39.0   39.0      -     3.0    3.0
1nkW E1dama               21.5    8.4    29.9   21.5    8.4    24.9    43.0   16.8   39.    3.3    1.3    4.6
1im  & T_                 397.1    -     397.1  455.2      -    4SS.2   -523       -    85St3  65.6      -    65.6
arn Cr                 1,941.2  699.1  2,640.3 1,413.9   5.   2,219    3,3551  1,7.3  4.922.   231t   1.6  378.7
FlyliMI  1    _pm         100.3   3S.7    137.0   O6.4   46.1   132.5    186.7   MA8   29.5   14.3    6.3   3.6
PFIM bInlM               292A   143.2    345.1  276.8   2.4   4792    479.7  345.6   62.3   36.9   2.6   63.5
mtaui am              2,243.9  879.0  3,122.9 1,77.1  1116.7  293.6  4PIl5 195.7  6,017.2  309.3  153.5  462.8
I4xh CqitaL               105.5    5.5    111.9   76.0    4.0   80.      181.5    9.5   1.0 1.0         0.7   14.7
FWJat Cot              2.349.4  884.5  3,233.  1,953.  11.7  2,973.8  4,203.0 24105.2  6,2.2  323.3  154.2  477.5
-zo*t dat snW uctm  bf lIVA        -      18.4     -     56.0    56.0     1.    56.0   74.4    1.4    4.3    5.7
F    nt-d Fd   ai     limi     -       -       -                   -           - _  _
Tmtal FII       idzwi   2,67.7  8M.5  3.2.  1,5.  1,176.7  3,03.8  4,.A  2,061.2  66A   32.7  15.   63.2
_Wr!      TW32.8  mai- (UsM2A wU ) ad P 111.3 n111k (USss.6 ulil   lumkgm  mis  md8  for (wm ad 9nw4mE1
1-laftlmly.
b  For _   ohm. ira.w   a n qi.1 p m ApwI 1. IM95 ad um          lnl wr. up to tiut daf w  in uomI auiay, t1itm.
lmt &<q am_uttli aqiltdiad d         t no cki fae . Ebp      a r s5_pmwn  ohm, _dla.  _n  rii.a  lime   t_t
-- 1I  dl    _ta cma*y   it for Sl d _mL _1-   I    tm ad of M9M90 _   tim de ng 1Ma 1wil m
wArblUdwd   n II= idta SOC d ad sYX *dxty flimd*  to, d       im         an  pmdt,d to bh frm    by qupty dl
lztacnt dmlzu  ratk. rct1-a 1m  t csLa,ntd anm  11  oly.
5.02         The Project's base capital cost estimates were prepared by CHPDI
and are based on cost information related to recent orders for similar
equipment and actual cost data for on-going projects and are satisfactory.
The original estimates as of 1982 were updated subsequently in September
1984 and most recently in December 1986. The cost for outside technical
assistance including fees, travel and subsistence expenses, has been
estimated on the basis of past experience for similar services in Bank
funded projects. The accuracy of the base cost estimates at this stage is
relatively high, particularly given the degree of design and specification
for mining equipment. For this reason, physical contingencies were
estimated at 5X over the base costs for mining equipment and IOX for otner
cost item . Price escalation has been based on the phasing of expenditure
consistent with the implementation schedule of the project and projected
local and foreign inflation. Local inflation rates are projected at 6% for
1986/87 through 1993/94. International inflation rates are projected at
1.1% for 1987, 6.9% for 1988, 3.4% for 1989, -2.5% for 1990, and 2.3Z for
1991 and thereafter.



-35-
5.03      Working capital requirements have been estimated at about US$14.7
million (Rs 191 million), using realistic assumptions on the level of
current assets and current liabilities required by the project until each
component reaches its rated capacity (1991/92 and 1996/97 for Gevra and
Sonepur-Bazari, respectively). Interest during construction has been
estimated at US$ 5.7 million (Rs. 74.4 million). This allows for
capitalization of interest up to the end of 1982/83 for Gevra and 1989/90
for Sonepur-Bazari on loans disbursed during that period in line with CIL's
accounting practices.8/
5.04      The capital cost for the Gevra mine (base cost plus physical
contingency) is about US$21.3 per annual ton of run-of-mine coal and the
capital cost for Sonepur-Bazari is about US$61.8 per annual ton of
run-of-mine coal with the difference mainly accounted for by the wide
disparity in stripping ratio. The unit investment costs of both mines
compare favorably with comparable figures of around US$50 per ton of raw
coal of annual capacity for low cost producers in Australia and South
Africa.
B.  Financing Plan
5.05      The financing plan for the mining component of the project is
summarized as follows:
Mining Component - Financing Plan
US$ million         Z
A. Equity
Government                          188.5          39.0
CIL Cash Generation                  53.1          11.0
Total Equity                      241.6          50.0
B. Long-Term Debt
IRRD                                180.0          37.3
Government of India                  61.6          12.7
Total Debt                        241.6          50.0
Total Financing                   483.2         100.0
8/ According to CIL accounting practices, interest during construction is
capitalized up to the establishment of a revenue account for the
project, i.e., two years after touching the coal seam, or when
production reaching 40Z of designed capacity whichever comes first.
Since the Gevra mine is already on revenue account, and since
Sonepur-Bazari will probably transfer to revenue account in 1990 (since
the coal seam in Sonepur-Bazari will be touched in 1988), the interest
during construction is much lower than might have been anticipated for
a project of this size.



-36-
5.06      According to current Government policy, overall financing of
project costs (including interest during construction, but excluding
working capital) is provided in the ratio of 5kZ dobt and 50Z equity.
Under this formula, the proposed Bank financing ot "S$180.0 million would
supply about 37.3Z of the total financing provided tor the mining component
of the project, with another US$61.6 million coming in the form of
long-term debt from GOI, or from co-financing (if co-financing were to be
used for this project). GOI's approach has been to link specific projects
with individual financing sources rather than have different sources
participating in each of several projects. To this effect, GOI is making
considerable use of bilateral sources (from countries such as UK, FR
Germany, France, Canada, Soviet Union and Poland) under governmental
cooperation agreements to finance imports of equipment and technical
assistance in areas of project preparation, training, etc. It is expected
that CIL would be able to contribute about 11% of the funda required for
its investment program from internal cash generation after debt repayment
and provision of increase in working capital for the period of 1987/88 to
1993/94. This same proportion has been applied to the Project. Thus, CIL
would provide about US$53.1 million equity out of its internally generated
funds and the balance of about US$188.5 million would come from Government
funds.
5.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$340 million equivalent would be made
to GOI at the standard Bank interest rate for 20 years, including five
years of grace. The sum of US$1S0 million equivalent would be on-lent to
CIL for the mining component of the project, the balance (US$160 million
equivalent) being used by GOI for coking coal importation. The amount
on-lent to CIL would represent about 100% of the foreign exchange and 6% of
local costs requirements of the mining component. GOI's practice is to
make loans to CIL for 15 years, at a nominal interest rate currently of 14%
per year (resulting in an effective rate of 13.75% p.a.) and not to grant
grace periods. Considering the project's requirements in terms of its long
implementation period and associated cash flow, it is desirable that a
normal grace period be applied in this case, as has been the practice in
other loans to the energy and industrial sectors. GOI has agreed to onlend
the Bank funds to CIL with 5 years of grace and will assume the foreign
exchange risk on the on-lent funds in line with present policy.
5.08      The balance of US$160 million which will be used by GOI for
coking coal importation, will be released in two tranches. The first
tranche (US$100 million) will be available for disbursement at loan
effectiveness. The second tranche (US$60 maillion) would be released
following receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory program of measures
designed to enable CIL to achieve certain financial performance targets in
1990/91 (see para. 6.11). The conclusion of an acceptable subsidiary loan
agreement between GOI and CIL, and satisfactory financial arrangements
between (i) CIL and SECL, and (ii) CIL and ECL, would be conditions of
effectiveness. GOI has also agreed to provide, in a timely manner, the
debt and equity financing requirements indicated above and whatever
additional debt and equity funds which might be needed (in both local and
foreign currpncy) to complete the Project promptly.



-37-
C.   Procurement and Disbursement
5.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Project Element                          ICB      LCB     Other      Total Cost
Gevra
Mining & Training Equipment & Spares   69.1    64.5          -          133.6
(48.6)   (0.6)       -         (49.2)
Coal Handling Plant                        -      45,4       _           45*4
Land & Civil Works                         -      43.3      4.2 a/       47,5
-     (7.5)       -          (7.5)
Workshop Equipment                        7.0       -       1.7           8.7
(7.0)                          (7.0)
Engineering                                -        -       1.1           1.1
Pre-operating Expenditure                  -        -       2.5           2.5
Technical Assistance                       -        -       1.5           1.5
-       -      (1.5)         (1.5)
Sub-total                              76.1   153.2      11.0         240.3
(55.6)   (8.1)    (1.5)        (65.2)
Sonepur-Bazari
Mining & Training Equipment & Spares  118.7    31.3          -          150.0
(79.9)   (1.2)       -         (81.1)
Coal Handling Plant                      11.0       -        -           11.0
(6.6)     -        -           (6.6)
Land & Civil Works                         -      36.4      3.2 a/       39.6
-    (16.5)       -         (16.5)
Workshop Equipment                        9.1       -       1.9          11.0
(9.1)              -           (9.1)
Engineering                                -        -       1.0           1.0
Pre-operating Expenditure                  -        -       8.4           8.4
Technical Assistance                       -        -       1.5           1.5
_       -       (1.5)        (1.5)
Sub-total                             138.8    67.7      16.0         222.5
(95.6)  (17.7)    (1.5)       (114.8)
Coking Coal Imports                     160.0       -        -          160.0
(160.0)                        (160.0)
Grand Total                           374.9   220.9      27.0         622.8
(311.2)  (25.8)    (3.0)       (340.0)
a/ Payment for land acquisition.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by- the
Baak.



-38-
5.10      Out of a total of 62 packages to be financed by the Bank for the
mining component of the project listed in Annex 15, the Bank will review
all packages exceeding an estimated value of US$3 million, which comprise
17 packages that amount to about 74X of the Bank loan for the mining
component, the balance being subject to post review. Eight of these
packages are estimated to exceed US$7.5 million each and will require
special review. Local manufacturers are expected to bid for Bank financed
items under the project and a domestic preference of 15X, or the import
duty, whichever is less, would be applied in bid evaluation for eligible
equipment. Technical assistance services will be contracted in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Thirteen mining equipment packages are on the
critical path for mine implementation. Procurement of these packages,
under intetnational competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, is well under way (Annex 16) and it is possible that CIL may be ready
to sign contracts and make initial payments for some of these packages
before loan signing. With regard to coking coal imports GOI presently has
commitments through June 1987. The procurement process for subsequent
coking coal imports was initiated in March 1987. Provision for retroactive
financing of up to US$20 million has been included in the loan for
expenditures after April 1, 1987 associated with the initial equipment
packages and with coking coal imports which follow procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. It is estimated that about US$5 million of the
retroactive financing would be for equipment and about US$15 million would
be for coking coal imports. A procurement schedule is shown in Annex 15.
5.11      The Bank loan of US$340.0 million will finance goods and services
as shown in the table overleaf. It is expected that for those items to be
financed by the Bank, about US$28.4 million (approximately 16% of the Bank
loan allocation for the mining component) will be for contracts awarded to
local suppliers following ICB, and about US$25.8 million (approximately 14%
of the Bank loan allocation for the mining component) will be for contracts
awarded following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.



-39-
Allocation of the Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Sonepur-                 % of Expenditure
Gevra   Bazari    Total    %    to be  inanced
Category
I.  Coking Coal                -        -      160.0   47.1  100% of foreign
expenditures
II.   Equipment a/           46.7     77.0    123.7   36.4  100% of foreign
100% of local
expenditure (ex-
factory cost)
and 90% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
III.  Coal Handling Plant,  13.8      30.6      44.4   13.0  100% of foreign
Training Centers                                     expenditure and
and Workshops                                        70% of local
expenditure
IV.  Technical Assis;ance    1.5        1.5      3.0    0.9  100%
V. Unallocated                3.2      5.7       8.9    2.6
Total                   65.2    114.8    340.0  100.0
,-            -_         _ _
a/  Including mining equipment, spare parts (estimated at 15% of CIF or 5%
of ex-factory value of foreign and local supply respectively), and
workshop equipment.
5.12      The LCB will be mainly for ten contracts, (value about US$24
million) to be executed in seven separate geographical locations for
workshop buildings and related civil works and service contracts including
pre-operating expenditures (for initial work in both project components).
The value of these contracts i& expected to range between US$1-4 million
each, which is insufficient to attract interest of experienced
international contractors, who typically require larger contracts to
justify their mobilization. The balance of the LCB (not to exceed US$1.8
million) would include packages of miscellaneous small tools and components
for workshops and training centers (such as surface plates, electrical
parts, heaters, repair stands, benches, racks). These have a maximum value
of US$20,000 per package and are not suitable for combining into packages
large enough to be of interest for international suppliers. Additionally,
items procured locally costing less than US$10,000 could be purchased off
the shelf. Disbursement shall be made using Statement of Expenditure (SOE)
procedures for contracts of less than US$20,000. The Borrower shall have
the SOE audited every fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied. The resulting audit report will be furnished to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of
the fiscal year.



so0-
5.13      The disbursement profile for the mining component (Annex 16) is
somewhat slower than the historical country industrial sector profiles
because of the long gestation period, particularly for the Sonepur-Bazari
mine as a result of overburden configuration and high stripping ratio. The
disbursement for the coking coal imports is expected to be completed in
FY89. The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1993
when all Bank financed items would have been commissioned.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Coal India Ltd.
6.01      The most critical factors affecting financial projections for CIL
are forecasts of production and the related Investment program, structure
of production costs and coal prices. Specific assumptioas are discussed in
Annex 17.
6.02      The bulk of CIL's thermal coal project pipeline is to meet the
incremental demand of the power sector. According to the 7th Five-Year
Plan (1985/86-1989/90) the next several years will be a period of rapid
growth for power generation and coal production. CIL will be required to
increase production from 142.6 million tons in 1986/87 to 196.0 million
tons in 1989/90. Thereafter, CIL's production is further expected to
increase to nearly 250 million tons by 1993/94. Overall CIL is projected
to achieve an increase of about 107 million tpy capacity in 7 year
representing an average annual growth rate of 8.3Z. During this period
open-pit coal production is expected to increase from 55% to 66% as shown
in the table below:
CIL - Production Forecast
(million tons)
Fiscal Year         Open-Pit         Underground         Total
1986/87             78.8               63.8            142.6
1987/88             90.1               67.9            158.0
1988/89            103.4               71.9            175.3
1989/90            120.8               75.2            196.0
1990/91            131.7               76.5            208.2
1991/92            140.7               79.1            219.8
1992/93            152.8               81.6            234.4
1993/94            164.8               84.6            249.4
6.03      To support the growth of coal production, total coal sector
investment requirements during the 7th Five-Year Plan (1985/86 to 1989/90)
are projected at Rs 53 billion (US$4.0 billion) in 1986/87 terms.
Financing to CIL has been provided entirely by GOI in the form of long-term
debt and equity from GOI's general budgetary allocations for capital
expenditure, with each covering about 50% of the required investment. It
is expected that GOI will continue to finance 50% of the investment through
long-term debt, and 50% from equity contributions.
6.04      CIL's average production costs per ton of raw coal are projected
to decrease in real terms from an estimated Rs 222 per ton in 1986/87 to
Rs 194  per ton in 1989/90 and to coutinue to decline slightly thereafter



-41-
as shown in the table below. This improvement reflects the benefits of
measures included in a Medium Term Efficiency Improvement Program being
implemented by CIL (para. 6.10). Compared with other major coal producing
countries, CIL's average operating costs ore competitive with low cost
producers in Australia and the United Stateb, though somewhat higher than
those in South Africa, after accounting for differences in coal qualities.
CIL-Production Costs Summary
(Rs/ton 1986/87 terms)
1986/87          1989/90           1993/94
Rs/ton     Z     Rs/ton      %     Rs/ton      Z
Salaries & Wages            111.4    50.1     84.0    43.3      73.2    40.1
Stores                       30.4    13.7      30.3    15.6     30.5    16.7
Power                        14.8     6.7      14.7     7.6     14.4      7.9
Other Expenses               26.5    11.9      26.1    13.4     25.1    13.8
Operating Cost              183.1    82.4    155.1    79.9    143.2    78.5
Depreciation                 21.1     9.5     21.4    11.0      21.9    12.0
Interest                     18.1     8.1      17.7     9.1     17.4     9.5
Total Production Cost       222.3   100.0    194.2   100.0    182.5   100.0
-                           - __ 
6.05      Salaries and wages constitute the largest component in the
production cost structure and their movement has significant bearing on the
overall production cost. In CIL, salaries and wages are fixed by the
National Coal Wages Agreement which is renegotiated every four years
between the unions and CIL management. So far the unions have been
successful in securing wage increases in real terms but salaries and wages
on a per ton basis have remained constant in real terms for the past 5
years indicating that improvements in labor productivity have more or less
matched the real increase in wages and salaries. Increases in labor
productivity and reductions in labor costs are now most important CIL
priorities. CIL expect to be able to minimize future wage increases in
real terms and CIL's efforts to improve efficiency (paras. 2.12-2.14)
should result in a steady decrease in unit labor costs in real terms during
the Seventh Plan period. If CIL achieves the production and productivity
increases as projected, and if wage increases can be successfully
controlled, labor costs will be reduced from 50% of production costs, at
present, to 43% by 1989/90. CIL's efficiency efforts should also prevent
any increases in other costs in real terms for the next few years. The
share of depreciation and interest charges will increase due to the
emphasis on capital intensive mines in the investment program.
6.06      Based on the present coal price schedule effective as of January
8, 1986, and grade-wise production mix of CIL, the average coal price for
CIL in 1986/87 is about Rs 205/ton. Recent work by CIL on a detailed mine
by mine production outlook has indicated that the grade mix for CIL will



-42-
tend to decline sharply in the next few years because the bulk of
incremental production will be of lower grades of coal, especially grades E
and F (which are expected to account for about 85Z of CIL's incremental
production from 1986/87 to 1989/90). To offset the impact of expected
deterioration of grade mix on CIL's average price realization and to enable
CIL to achieve a debt service coverage of 1.3 in 1990/91 (para. 6.11), n
4.5% coal price increase in real terms is projected in 1990. For years
preceding and after 1990, it is assumed that coal prices would generally
follow the local inflation rate. The average coal price in current terms
for CIL as a whole is projected below.
CIL - Projected Average Coal Price
(Rs/ton current term)
Fiscal Year           Average Price
1986/87                 205
1987/88                 212
1988/89                 221
1989/90                 228
1990/91                 249
1991/92                 264
1992/93                 280
1993/94                 296
6.07      Based on the above main assumptions, CIL financial projections
have been prepared and are shown in Annex 18. The key financial data are
summarized in the following table:
CIL - Sumury of Financial Projections
(Rs million - current terms)
Fiscal Year                  1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1993/94
Coal Sales (lzlion tons)       137        151         167         187        238
Sales Revenues               27,953      32,077     36,813      42,737      70,172
Operating Expenses           25,027      27,840     30,944      34,563      51,154
Net Income                   (2,402)    (2,025)    (1,466)        (474)      4,761
Internal Cash Generation        498       1,400      2,625       4,340      12,633
Investment                    9,690      10,335     13,466      15,233      17,070
Net Fixed Assets             31,822      37,389     45,012      53,451      81,344
Long-Term Debt               27,829      30,573     34,538      38,939      52,803
Shareholders Equity          20,706      26,235     33,105      40,840      68,240
Ratios:
Current Ratio                  1.26        1.27       1.29        1.31        1.34
LT Debt:Equity Ratio          57:43       54:46      51:49       49:51       44:56
LT Debt Service Coverage       0.58        0.71       0.87        1.05        1.67



-43-
6.08      CIL faces a difficult financial position for the next few years.
An improvement over 1985/86 is expected in 1986/87, partly as a result of
the January 1986 price increase and partly as the result of CIL's efforts
to increase efficiency and, in particular, a cost cutting program adopted
by CIL in February 1986. Even so, a loss of Rs 2,402 million is projected
for 1986/87 and this could be higher if production increases are restrained
by lower than anticipated off-take. Based on the coal price assumption as
outlined in para. 6.06, and assuming no adjustments to CIL's capital
structure, CII. is unlikely to reach a profit making position until
1990/91. For the next several years CIL will need additional equity
contributions (above 50% of the investment program) to assist with debt
repayments including arrears and will not be able to generate funds for its
investments program until 1990/91. With regard to CIL's balance sheet, the
current ratio is projected to increase slightly to 1.31 in 1989/90.
Long-term debt to equity ratio is expected to improve to a more
conservative level of 49:51 in 1989/90 and further to 44:56 in 1993/94.
Debt service coverage is expected steadily to progressively improve and
reach 1.05 in 1989/90 and 1.30 in 1990/91. This allows for the repayment
of about Rs 3.9 billion in debt and interest arrears over a six year
period. Excluding payments on these arrears, the debt service coverage
would be 1.15 in 1989/90 and 1.39 in 1990/91.
6.09      Agreements have been reached with GOI and CIL on financial
covenants that will ensure that the financing for the project is adequate
and that CIL will follow prudent financial practices. Agreements on the
project's financing plan are discussed in paras. 5.07-5.08. Regarding the
financial position of CIL, it was agreed for the Dudhichua Project (Loan
2393) and Jharia Project (Loan 2498) that CIL will on a consolidated basis:
(i) maintain a long-term debt to equity ratio not greater than 60:40; (ii)
maintain at all times a current ratio of at least 1.2; and (iii) take all
actions necessary to ensure a debt service coverage of at least 1.3. The
first two above conditions were also agreed for this Project.
6.10      However, a modification has been made to the debt-service
coverage provision in view of the present financial outlook for CIL. CIL
has not been able to increase production (due to demand rising more slowly
than forecast) and contain unit costs as well as previously anticipated.
Rather than compensate by simply raising prices in real terms to cover
costs, GOI has encouraged CIL to make efficiency improvements in order to
improve its financial viability. CIL has put in place a short-term cost
reduction program for 1986/87 as a result of which cost savings of about Rs
620 million have been achieved. CIL has also developed a Medium Term
Efficiency Program which is being implemented by the subsidiaries. This
program includes inter alia manpower control measures (to improve labor
productivity), computerized spare parts systems and improved operating and
maintenance capabilities (to increase availability and utilization of heavy
mining equipment) and stringent cost controls (to contain increases in
administrative, stores, power and transport costs). More details are given
in Annex 19 which also includes certain performance targets.



-44-
6.11      The extent of CIL's financial difficulties in the next several
years became apparent in late 1986 during the preparation of the Medium
Term Efficiency Improvement Program. While the emphasis on efficiency
improvement is a sound approach, the present measures identified and being
impleuented by CIL will not be sufficient to enable CIL to reach the 1.3
debt service coverage without price adjustments and/or other measures. GOI
and CIL are considering various options that will enable CIL to achieve a
1.3 debt service coverage by 1990/91. While these could include an
increase in the present coal price schedule in real terms (as assumed in
the financial projections - para 6.06), other options als o exist including
identification of further efficiency improvement measures, financial
restructuring steps (including capitalizing or writing c'f certain CIL
arrears in interest and debt repayment to GOI) and possible new approaches
to coal pricing (such as coalfield pricing or even sliding scale pricing).
Further time is needed to formulate these options and develop a
comprehensive strategy. GOI will, therefore, prepare and submit to the
Bank by October 1, 1988 a program of specific measures which will enable
CIL to achieve a debt service coverage of 1.3 by 1990/91. CIL has
established a set of annual operating performance targets for the next four
years (Annex 1S) and will review its annual operating performance with
regard to these targets annually with the Bank. Based on these
arrangements, it was agreed that CIL would take all actions to ensure a
debt-service coverage of at least 1.3 in 1990/91 and thereafter. This
agreement will subsequently be adopted for the Dudhichua and Jharia
Projects also. Additionally, CIL will have its accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and will submit certified
copies of its consolidated financial statements (together with the
auditor's report) as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year.
B.   South Eastern Coalfields Ltd.
6.12      SECL's projected financial position is summarized below.
Detailed financial projections for SECL, given in Annex 20, are based on
the assumptions discussed in Annex 17.
9BM- &mmy of Projected Ffmel  positi  a/
(Rs urfln)
1986/87    1987J88    1988/89    1989/90    1993/94
Gsol SR  (nuUMIn tons)             52         60         68         77         99
Sales Revemws                   9,748     11,661      13,620     16,144     26,955
Operating lEpues                7,222      8,217      9,87       10,808     16,714
Net Inume before CPRA cmtr ibtimn   793    1,407      1,868      2,570       5,556
Net Ixcae after CERA coltrbaimn   (8D6)     (689)      (476)       (75)      1,947
teTumt   CSash Glemation          174        468        875      1,490       4,467
Investmzrt                      2,830      2,862      3,147      3,454       4,211
a/ The projcXke iT-uide the Nw'r operatiois and emclude the Orissa operatlons.
' After eontibhutm to ML&.



-45-
6.13      Due to locational advantages in relation to major coal consumers
in western India, development of new coalfields in SECL has been given
priority in CIL's investment program.  SECL's production is expected to
increase from 54 million tpy in 1986/87 to 103 million tpy by 1993/94,
representing an average annual growth of 9.6Z. The emphasis of SECL's
investment portfolio Is the development of new large-scale open-pit mines
which would bring the share of open-pit production to 68 by 1993/94 from
the current level of 51%.
6.1x.     Mainly due to better mining conditions, less power shortages and
less labor unrest, SECL is a low cost producer among all subsidiaries. In
1986/87 average operating cost per ton of saleable coal in SECL are
expected to be Rs 138/ton, about 75Z of CIL's average of Rs 183/ton.
Production cost in real terms is expected to decrease by about 17% by
1993/94. SECL is in a sound financial position. Its forerunner (WCL) has
been able to earn moderate profits since 1979/80 and SECL is also expected
to be profitable before CPRA contributions. Although the Impact of the
retention price system results in substantial transfer from SECL to ECL and
BCCL and will cause a negative net income (after CPRA adjustment) for
several years for SECL, the ratio of internal cash generation to investment
rewains positive and is projected to increase from the current level of 6Z
to about 106% in 1993/94.
C.   Eastern Coalfields Ltd.
6.15      ECL's projected financial position is summarized below. Detailed
financial projections are given in Annex 20.
- SuurrY of Pzojected Finmial Pbsiticx
Bs. mwlUon)
1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90   1993/94
Coal Sales (mmillon tons)           24         26         29         33        38
Ss Reve_ues                       6,335      7,155      8,408      9,798    14,697
Operating costs                   6,377      6,976      7,702      8,503    11,305
Net lie before CERA  justtent    (1,185)    (1,161)      (871)      (562)     (340)
Net I     after CM Adjustiunt      (455)      (385)      (294)      (120)     (754)
Internal Cash Genration a/          171       353        593        924      2,529
1nvesm.t                          1,500      1,696      2,248      2,382     3,008
a/ hi    g catributin frm CMM&
6.16      Due to difficult mining conditions, the labor-intensive nature of
existing operations, and overstaffing, average cash operating cost of ECL
is the highest among all subsidiaries (Rs 268/ton). ECL's investment
program amounts to nearly Rs 2.0 billion per annum over the 1986/87 to
1989/90 time period. It consists of reconstructing its older, deep
underground mines and developing certain new open-pit mines including the
Raimahal mine to feed the Farraka super-thermal power station in northern
BiIiar as well as Sonepur-Bazari. Because of the geological conditions and



-46-
the age of the workings, there is only limited opportunity for increasing
production from the underground mines and the emphasis of the
reconstruction program is therefore on efficiency improvements and cost
reduction, as well as increased production. Since there are fewer
undeveloped coal deposits in the regions operated by ECL, its incremental
production program is such smaller than SECL. By 1993/94, ECL is expected
to increase production to 40 million tons, with an average annual growth of
6.8% from 1986/87. Open-pit mining would only moderately increase its
share from 33Z in 1986/87 to 45% in 1993/94.
6.17      As discussed earlier, given CIL's power and responsibility for
decision-making on financial and administrative matters, and because it
borrows from GOI all long-term loans for the Group, CIL is considered the
primary beneficiary for the proposed loan. For these reasons, no specific
financial covenants are considered for SECL and ECL with the exception that
SECL and ECL will have their accounts audited, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and will submit certified copies of their financial
statements, together with the auditor's report as soon as available but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
D.   Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari Projects
6.18      The operating cost estimates for Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari were
developed by CMPDI in 1979 and updated subsequently in September 1984 and
December 1986 based on actual and comparable cost data. Due to excellent
geological conditions, the operating costs of the Gevra mine compares
extremely favorably not only with the companywise averages but also with
the lowest cost coal producers in South Africa even after adjustment for
coal quality differences as shown in the table below. The operating cost
estimates of Sonepur-Bazari, while higher than Gevra due to a higher
stripping ra-io, are also well below ECL average due to its
capital-intensive nature.
Inter-Company Comparison of Cash Operating Costs
(Rs per ton of Saleable Coal, 1986/87 terms)
Sonepur-
Gevra     Bazari      SECL       ECL      CIL
Salaries & Wages                10.0      18.4       78.5     186.3    111.4
Stores                          19.2      57.0       29.1      24.1      30.4
Power                            1.8       9.7       13.7       18.1     14.8
Other Expenses                  10.1      24.9       16.7      39.5      26.5
Total Operating Costs        41.1      110.0      138.0     268.0    183.1
International Comparison of Cash Operating Costs
(US$ per ton of Coal Equivalent 1986/87 terms)
Sonepur-
Gevra       Bazari        South Africa
Labor Cost                       1.7           1.9           3-4
Other Costs                      5.3          9.5            5-8
Total Operating Costs         7.0          11.4            8-12



-47-
6.19      The financial rate of return of Gevra mine is 22% and that of
Sonepur-Bazari is 10%. The difference is due primarily to the higher
stripping ratio for Sonepur-Bazari which is about five times that of Gevra,
though coal from Sonepur-Bazari is of much better quality. However,
considering the actual supply shortages of higher grades of thermal coal
which is economic to transport over relatively long distance, the
development of Sonepur-Bazari mine is of equal priority with Gevra.
Detailed financial cost and benefit streams and the assumptions used,
together with those of the economic analysis are given in Annex 21. The
financial rates of return and sensitivity tests are summarized below.
Switching values of coal price, capital and operating costs wich would
reduce the return of the Gevra project to 10% are also presented.
Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari Projects - Financial Rates of Return
(M)
Gevra       Sonepur-Bazari
Base Case                                 22.4                9.7
Capital Cost Up 10%                       20.0               8.4
Operating Cost Up 10%                     20.9               8.4
Production Build-up Slippage              21.3               9.3
Capital Cost Up 10% and
Production Build-up Slippage            16.7               6.1
Gevra - Switching Values Y'ieldi,g 10% Financial Rate of Return
Factor                 Percentage Change
Coal Price                      -31
Operating Cost                  +79
Capital Cost                    +78
6.20      Of the various factors used in the sensitivity test, the return
stays sensitive to variations of coal price which is the least controllable
by CIL. Although GOI has expressed basic commitment to adopt a rational
coal pricing policy, risks exist that price adjustments may not take place
in a timely manner. In anticipation of this and to ensure the financial
viability of the project and CIL, the Bank will continue its pricing
dialogue with GOI in the context of GOI's preparation of further measures
to enable CIL to meet its financial targets (para. 6.11). Although ECL has
limited experience with mechanized open-pit operations, the possibility of
significant implementation delays causing slippage in the production
build-up is considered low given CIL's commitment to rationalize and
strengthen ECL's management as well as cross-fertilization of benefits
expected from technical assistance on open-pit mining operations under the
Dudhichua project. In the case of Gevra, since the technology involved is
already adopted by SECL in other open-pit operations, time overruns are
unlikely except that production build-up is conditioned by the
implementation progress of the Korba power plant being financed with Bank
group assistance. Possibility of capital and operating cost overruns is
relatively low because estimates are based on actual data for on-going
projects. Further, the impact on the rate of return is not critical in
either case.



-48-
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The Gevra mine is a captive supplier of the Korba power station,
one of the four large central power stations planned by GOI for the current
decade and being developed with Bank Group assistance. Upon completion,
the Korba power station will have 2,100 MW generating capacity and will
contribute about 8% of total energy supply in the western region from 1991
onwards. In this context, the Gevra mine plays an important role in the
provision of necessary incremental base load capacity of the required size
and reliability. As for Sonepur-Bazari, 50% of coal production is linked
with the Kolaghat power station which is at present under construction with
ultimate capacity of 6x210 MW. The project will help to alleviate the
acute power shortages and associated losses in industrial output in West
Bengal. The balance of Sonepur Bazari's production will help to alleviate
shortages of higher grade coals for industrial consumers.
7.02      The importation of coking coal will assist GOI in filling the gap
between the present availability of domestic prime coking coal and the
steel industry's requirement for prime coking coal. The loan would finance
approximately half of India's coking coal requirements during the next two
years. Without the imports, the production of steel would be constrained
by raw materials shortages with a resultant decline in capacity utilization
and, hence, inefficient use of the steel industry's existing plant and
equipment. Since the imported coal will have a lower ash content (average
10% ash) than domestic supplies (average 21% ash) blast furnace
productivity should be improved by a judicious blending of imported and
domestic coal. The results of the program to monitor the benefits of the
imports (para. 2.17) will be useful not only for optimizing the blend ratio
in the next several years but also for assessing the economics of using
imported coal on a permanent basis to sweeten the India coking coal, since
even under the best of conditions Indian prime coking coal will not be
lower than 17% ash.
A.  Economic Rates of Return
7.03      The economic rates of return for the investments in the two
mining complexes have been calculated based on the cost and benefit streams
used for the financial rates of return except for (i) exclusion of all
identifiable taxes and duties; (ii) application of standard conversion
factor of 0.8 to locally supplied inputs and labor to reflect their
opportunity costs to the economy; (iii) the use of projected domestic sales
prices paid by consumers at mine-head (adjusted by the standard conversion
factor) as proxies for the economic values of the relevant grades of coal
to calculate project revenues (para. 7.04).
7.04      In principle, coal is tradeable and should be priced at
opportunity cost. However, the bulk of India's thermal coal production is
not expected to be economically tradeable because of both its low quality
and the heavy transportation costs involved.  In these circumstances, the



-49-
efficiency price is the long run marginal cost.  Given that the projected
average thermal coal price for CIL is broadly in line with the long run
marginal cost estimate, the projected domestic prices paid by consumers at
mine-head for each grade, adjusted by the overall conversion factor, have
been used in calculatiag project benefits for the purpose of economic
evaluation. ?2 The mine-head consumer price for each grade comprises
mine-head producer price plus various statutory levies and sales taxes
collected by state and central governments. The prevailing rates of these
levies effective as of January 1, 1987 are much higher in Bihar and West
Bengal than in other coal-producing states. Presently, the differentials
between producer and consumer prices at mine-head average about 30% of
producer prices for ECL and BCCL, about 25% for CCL, and about 10 for
SECL.
7.05      The economic rate of return thus calculated is 32Z for Gevra and
19% for Sonepur-Bazari. Sensitivity tests of adverse scenarios are
summarized below and underlying assumptions and cost/benefit streams are
detailed in Annex 21. It can be noted that the economic rate of return is
about 10 points higher than the financial rate of return reflecting that
substantial portion of the economic rent accrues, partly, to the central
and state governments in the form of taxes and partly to the labor force
which is paid high wage rates relative to wages in other occupations.
Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari Projects - Economic Rates of Return
(O)
Gevra       Sonepur-Bazari
Base Case                                   32.0             19.3
Capital Cost up 10%                         29.0             16.2
Operating Cost up 10%                       30.4              16.7
Production Build-up Slippage                27.9             13.9
Capital Cost Up 10% and Production
Build-up Slippage                        25.2             12.7
B. Resource Mobilization
7.06      Substantial amounts of resources are generated by the coal sector
in the forms of statutory leviee, sales tax, and custom duties on CIL's
coal sales and equipment purchases. During 1986/87 - 1989/90, CIL's
contribution to Government revenues is projected to average 70% of CIL's
investment requirements, whereas CIL's projected internal cash generation
averages 18% of CIL's investment before debt service and only becomes
9/  The question may arise whether consumers would be willing to pay higher
prices, i.e., whether these prices clear the marilet and obviate any
need for rationing. Although coal supply in India has been pressed at
times to satisfy domestic demand at prevailing level of prices due to
the structure of demand, it appears reasonable to assume that at the
projected prices no scarcity will develop.



-50-
positive in the early 1990s, after debt service. Most part of the
statutory levies on coal sales go to State Governments, although 10X of
these are given back to CIL as subsidies for stowing operations, housing
and medical facilities, etc. Considering that the Central Governme t
intends to continue to finance CIL's investment program on 50X debt and 50X
equity basis, this will impose a substantial burden on GOI's budget for
capital expenditure if present arrangements remain in force. It is,
therefore. desirable that measures be taken so that CIL can soon move to a
position. where it is able to generate part of its investment requirements
itself. It should be noted that the customs duty on imported equipment for
govexmnment-sanctioned projects has been reduced from 65% to 45% of CIF cost
staLting January 1, 1985, which is helping reduce CIL's investment
requirements and is encouraging domestic suppliers to improve efficiency.
CIL - Projected Resource Mobilization
(Rs million - current terms)
Fiscal Year                       86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90       93/94
Internal Cash                      498    1,400    2,625    4,340    12,633
Generation (ICG) a/
Contribution to
Government Revenues (CGR):
Duty & Taxes on Equipment        830      890    1,150    1,310       1,470
Levies on Coal Sales          5,990    6,800    7,780    8,970    14,560
Subtotal                  6,820    7,690    8,930   10,280    16,030
CIL Investment                   9,690   10,335   13,466   15,233    17,070
Debt Repayment b/                2,583    3,143    3,488    3,936       5,145
ICG/Investment (X):
Before Debt Service            5.1      13.5      19.5      28.5       74.0
After Debt Service             neg.      neg.      neg.      2.7       43.9
CGR/Investment (X)              70.4      74.4      66.3      67.5       93.9
a/  Before servicing long-term debt to the Government.
bJ  Including arrears.
C. Other Benefits
7.07      ,the project should help to develop efficient operating practices
in ECL through the demonstration effect of a modern, high-productivity mine
and provide stimulus towards the efforts of rationalization of existing
operations. Furt.iermore, the selection of 120 t dump trucks for both mines
represents a major step forward in exploiting the potential of modern
mining technology and will accelerate the collaboration between the
domestic manufacturing industry and foreign suppliers to upgrade domestic
manufacturing capabilities. The project will provide direct employment for
about 4,000 persons at the Gevra mine and will open an avenue to alleviate
the current over-staffing of ECL by providing required manpower for the



-51-
Sonepur-Bazari mine (of about 1,200 persons) partly from within the
existing labor force. The project will also support CIL in its efforts to
improve its overall efficiency through short-term cost reduction and
medium-term efficiency measures. Finally, improvements in the quality of
coal received by consumers should contribute to greater productivity in
consuming sectors, in particular, power, steel and general industrial
consumers.
D. Least Cost Development Program
7.08      The econou#ic rate of return calculations presented above evaluate
the marginal contribution that each mine is making to the economy, and thus
enable a comparison with investments in other sectors. This is not
sufficient, however, to rank projects within the coal industry, or a
segment of it, according to their relative economic merits. Since
transport costs are high compared to mining costs (and can even be higher
than mining costs for long distances), the merits of a project meeting
domestic demand in a particular location are of paramount importance,
especially in the case of large scale thermal power plants.
7.09      In the case of the Gevra mine, it should be compared with other
projects in the Korba field and with others in neighboring fields in Madhya
Pradesh and Orissa. SECL and WCL have currently under implementation 15
underground and 11 open-pit major mines with economic costs 10/ at
mine-mouth averaging Rs 23 per Gigacal (ranging from Rs 13 to 36 per
Gigacal 11/). Apart from the expansion of Gevra, four other projects are
presently being considered for investments in Korba or relatively near
areas. Of these, the expansion of Gevra ranks second with an economic cost
per Gigacal of Rs 24.8, fairly close to the average of projects under
implementation. The only project with an economic cost lower than Gevra
(Rs 20.9 per Gigacal) consists of the expansion of the existing open-pit
mine Kurasia, which for technical reasons cannot be expanded by more than 1
million tpy.
7.10      ECL's investment program is geographically concentrated in a much
smaller area and given the relatively higher grades of coal produced, the
demand is considerably more dispersed throughout India. For these reasons,
the analysis here has been focused on the overall investment program for
ECL. There are at present 12 major projects under implementation with an
average economic cost of RS 28 per Gigacal (ranging from 17 to 35). Some
other thirteen projects have been formulated and in all cases the economic
cost has been estimated at above Rs 28 per Gigacal, which is a clear
indication of the rising trend in long-run marginal costs. The
Sonepur-Bazari project with a cost of Rs 33.7 per Gigacal, ranks third in
this program, satisfying the least-cost development criterion.
10/ The economic cost has been estimated as the ratio of the net present
value (NPV) of capital plus operating cost streams (in early 1985
terms) to the NPV of the energy content of coal production (measured
in Gigacals) discounted at the opportunity cost of capital, estimated
at 12X. To express them in economic terms, the cost streams have been
adjusted using the same criteria described in para. 7.02.
11/ Except for one project with an economic cost of Rs 49.9 per GigacF_.



-52-
E.   Project Risks
7.11      The project faces minimal technical and marketing risks.  There
is a risk that the Sonepur-Bazari component may be delayed by land
acquisition difficulties. The required land is in the hands of the
Government of West Bengal and handover is expected within two to three
months. If undue delays occur, disbursements will be limited to US$8
million for the Sonepur-Bazari mining equipment until the land is handed
over. Any possible financial risks are mitigated (a) by CIL's efforts to
improve its efficiency and financial performance; (b) by the Government's
commitment to preparing a program, including price increases if
appropriate, that would assure CIL's financial future viability; and (c)
the high priority that GOI places on developing its critically needed coal
resources in a timely and efficient manner.
VIII - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following agreements have been reached:
(a)  With thc Government that it will:
(i) prepare a detailed implementation schedule for measures to
improve coal quality (para. 2.19);
(ii) maintain coal prices that will ensure the financial
viability of CIL and provide increased resource mobilization
in the Sector (para. 2.21);
(iii) ensure adequate power supply to the project (paras. 4.12 and
4.25);
(iv) on-lend Bank funds to CIL on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.07);
(v) provide in a timely manner the financing necessary to
complete the project promptly (para. 5.08); and
(vi) furnish the Bank with a program of measures that will enable
CIL to achieve its agreed financial targets (para. 6.11).
(b)  With CIL that it will:
(i) retain technical assistance by December 31, 1987, regarding
the design of workshop facilities (para. 3.08);
(ii) retain technical assistance by December 31, 1987, to improve
manpower planning within CIL and the planning and
organization of training activities (paras. 3.09 and 3.10);
(iii) retain technical assistance by December 31, 1987 for the
design and development of training institutes (paras. 4.10
and 4.24);



-53-
(iv) undertake a resettlement program for people affected by the
project (para. 4.32);
(v)  follow prudent financial practices; and maintain financial
covenants as describtd in paras. 6.09 and 6.11; and
(vi) review with the Bank its annual operating performance
(para. 6.11).
(c)  With CIL and SECL (for Gevra) and ECL (for Sonepur-Bazari) that
they will:
(i)  undeLtake additional geotechnical testing and prepare and submit
to the Bank a repurt on detailed mine planning and slope
stability for both components (para. 4.08 and 4.20);
(ii) ensure the design, construction and operation of the project are
carried out with die regard to ecological and environmental
standards and ensure satisfactory arrangements for the supply of
electric power and potable water to each component (paras. 4.12,
4.25, 4.26 and 4..2); and
Ciii) prEpare and submit financial statements and audited financial
reports to the Bank (par-. ' 11 and 6.17).
(d)  With SECL and ECL (for Cevra and Sonepur-Bazari respectively)
that they will:
(i) establish a satisfactory Project Management Unit for each
compenent (para. 4.34 and 4.35).
(e) With ECL that it will
(i) implement a rehabilitation program for twenty loss-making
mines satisfactory to the Bank, submit progress reports for
Bank review, and extend the program to another twenty mines
as agreed with the Bank (para. 3.18).
8.02      The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI
and CIL under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
'?ara. 5.07); and
(ii) financial arrangements between (a) CIL and ECL, and (b)
CIL and SECL, all under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.08).



-54-
8.03      As a condition of disbursement, disbursements on the Sonepur-
Bazari component will be limited to a maximum of US$8 million until ECL has
confirmed possession of 68 ha of land (part of the land needed for the
first five years of mining-para. 4.37). In addition, the second tranche
of the coking coal component (US$60 million) will be released on receipt of
a satisfactory program of measures that will enable CIL to reach its
financial targets in 1990/91 (para. 5.08).
8.04      Given the preceding agreements and assurances, the project is
recommended as suitable for a Bank loan to GOI of US$340 million for a
period of 20 years with 5 years of grace, at the standard interest rate.
Industry Department
March 1987



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ENERGY SECTOR OVERVIEW
A.   Energy Resources
1.        Energy use in India is among the lowest in the world.  In 1980
per capita consumption of energy averaged 210 kg (coal equivalent),i/
compared with 680 kg in China and 7500 kg in industrial countries. Over
the past three decades the composition of fuel consumption has increasingly
shifted from the use of non-commercial fuels, such as fuelwood, vegetable
wastes and cow dung, to commercial energy resources. At present,
non-commercial fuels account for less than 40% of total energy consumption,
while coal accounts for 32%, oil and gas for about 20% and primary
electricity for 8%. The bulk of the substitution of non-commercial fuels
has been in the form of coal and oil products reflecting India's large coal
resources and the rapid growth of road transport, where energy use in the
form of petroleum products has almost doubled over the past decade. The
increasing reliance on commercial fuels has strained the capability of the
energy sector to meet the energy needs of the economy and has placed a
heavy burden on the balance of payments.
2.        Concerned about the adverse impact of energy shortages on
economic growth, the government has continuously stepped up investments in
the energy sector. Since 1973/74 the share of total public investment in
the energy sector has nearly doubled. While this reflects to a large
extent the government's response to the increase in international oil
prices, it is also in line with the traditional perception that the energy
sector must provide the Indian economy with the energy it requires to
sustain growth. The relative shares of public investment in the major
energy sub-sectors, coal, oil and gas, and electric power reflect the
changing structure of energy demand, in particular the rapid growth in the
demand for oil products, the need to minimize the burden energy imports
place on the balance of payments and India's relative endowment with energy
resources.
3.        Coal is and will continue to be, India's most abundant domestic
energy resource. Its contribution to the country's commercial energy
requirements is expected to remain more than 50% over the next decade.
Total coal resources (excluding lignite) are estimated at over 127 billion
tons, out of which 60 oillion tons are considered technically and
economically recoverable under present conditions. Based on current
projections of the growth of coal demand, these reserves would be
sufficient to meet India's coal needs over the next 130 years. In contrast
to the experience of many other countries, the share of coal in commercial
energX production in India has declined only slightly over the years, and
coal still accounts for about 60% of all commercial energy produced. In
1984/85 coal production reached 147.5 million tons, making India the sixth
largest coal producer in the world.
1/ Internationally, coal is rated at 7,000 kcal/kg while in India, due to
generally lower coal quality, coal is rated at 5,000 kcal/kg.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
4.        Oil, because of its rapidly growing demand that absorbs a large
share of India's export earnings, will remain critical to the management of
the Indian economy2/, in particular lts balance of payments. While
domestic oil output has increased from 0.5 million tons in 1961/62 to 29.0
million tons in 1984/85, mainly as a result of the discovery of the Bombay
High off-shore field, it currently provides only two-thirds of domestic
consumption. Although the reliance on lmported oil ls projected to decline
to about one-fourth towards the end of the 1980D, it is expected to rise
again to about one-third by the mid-19909 as domestic oil production (from
currently known fields) reaches a plateau of about 38-40 million tons. To
avoid a significant increase in oil imports by 1995, new reserves will have
to be discovered and brought into production within the next decade. Total
prognosticated resources of hydro-carbons have been estimated by ONGC in
1982 at 15 billion tons of oil equivalent of which about 75% is natural gas
and 251 is oil. Two-thirds of the resources are located off shore and
one-third on shore. Of these resources, 511 million tons of oil and 478
blllion cubic meters of gas have been estimated as proved reserves as of
January 1984.
5.        Current geological knowledge of the country indicates that
natural gas is likely to be India's predominant hydrocarbon resource. Up
to now however, the role of natural gas has been small and limited to
associated gas produced with crude oil. The situation will change,
however, with the development of the large South Bassein gas field and the
appraisal and proving of more recent discoveries in the western region.
Current natural gas production has reached 7.2 billion cubic meters (bcm)
per year, or about 6.0 million tons of oil equivalent, of which 3.8 million
tons of oil equivalent are used as fuel or feedstock, the remainder being
flared for lack of compression and dehydration facilities off-shore,
transmission infrastructure or consuwmrs onshore.
6.        India's economic growth depends to a large extent on the
performance and development of the power sector, since power shortages have
an immediate impact on virtually all other sectors of the economy. Total
installed power generating capacity as of March 1985 was 46,680 MW
(including non-utility plants), of which about 672 was conventional
thermal, 312 hydro, and 22 nuclear. The Central Electricity Authority
(CEA) has recently completed a systesatic reassessment of India's
hydroelectric resources, and placed the estimated potential at 89,830 MW.
At a load factor of 60% this potential capacity would yield an annual power
output of 472.15 twh, almost three times the 1984/85 level of power
generation from all sources (166.6 twh). Of this potential only 14,314 MW
have been developed and 5,100 MN are under construction. GOI has given
high priority to the development of India's hydro potential but these
projects have very long gestation and implementation periods. Most of the
recent additions to power generating capacity bas therefore been from
thermal power plants. The share of thermal power generation has increased
to about 67% of total capacity in 1984/85 from its lowest level of 54%
during the second half of the 1960s. With the increase in the share of
4/ India's two major national oil companies, the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission (ONGC) and Oll India Ltd. (OIL) have emerged as the largest
net contributors of resources to the public sector.



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
thermal power in total electricity generation, there has also been an
increase in the share of coal used for power generation-from less than 20%
in the early 1970s to a current share of about 44Z. During the same period
the corresponding share of petroleum products has remained fairly constant
at about 7% to 8%.
7.        Over the years the Indian economy has been increasingly plagued
by power shortages. While power generation has kept pace with the demand
for power during the 1950s and 1960s, since 1970 supply has fallen short of
demand, mainly because of delays in the commissioning of new power
projects, operating and maintenance problems, and severe budget constraints
which have limited investments in the power sector. The situation has been
aggravated by unreliable coal supplies caused by inadequate transport and
the declining quality of coal. In 1980 a high-level commission carried out
an analysis of the situation and submitted its findings (Report of the
Committee on Power) to the Government. As a result of this report the
Government has introduced several measures to improve the efficiency of
thermal power plants, including: (a) improved preventive and planned
maintenance; (b) better availability of spare parts; (c) improved training;
(d) adequate coal supplies of acceptable quality; and (e) more effective
management of both State Electricity Boards and power plants. Despite
these measures the supply of power is expected to remain inadequate for
some years to come, particularly in areas where coal is not available
nearby.
B.   Energy Consumption
8.        While households account for a small share of commercial energy-
about 7% of coal, 19% of petroleum and 10% of electricity-their
cousumption of non-commercial energy is comparatively high, particularly in
rural areas while the use of electricity and kerosene remains mostly
limited to lighting. Although commercial energy will continue to replace
non-commercial energy, the latter will remain a major source of energy
supply for rural households. Energy needs in agriculture are still met
mostly by animal power. Currently commercial energy consumption in this
sector accounts for only about 7S and consists mainly of electricity and
diesel oil. However, the use of commercial energy in agriculture has been
growing rapidly reflecting the efforts to modernize the sector.
9.        The industrial sector, which consumes about 40% of commercial
energy resources is the largest user of coal and electricity. In 1984/85
it accounted for 42Z of coal consumption and 71Z of electricity
consumption. The energy intensity of the industrial sector has remained
virtually unchanged since the early 1970s, mainly because of the slow turn
down of capital. 3/ It is largely the result of the relatively poor
energy efficiency of the technology that is still used in many
manufacturing processes. Thus the expected acceleration of industrial
growth in India is likely to place a heavy strain on the energy sector.
3/ In terms of industrial energy Lntensity, India ranks near the top among
developing countries and well above the average intensity in industrial
countries.



-58-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
10.       The transport sector is the largest user of petroleum products
and the third largest user of coal, after power and industry. Over the
past twenty years the structure of demand has changed considerably as a
result of the rapid growth of road transport and the substitution of diesel
electric for steam locomotives. In 1984/85 oil products accounted for 66%
of the commercial energy consumed in the sector compared to 47% in 1970/71,
while the share of electricity remained at about 3%. Current projections
in the transport sector indicated continuing decline in coal consumption as
road transport increases in importance and as railways continue to shift to
more efficient diesel electric locomotives, thereby contributing to a
growing demand for petroleum products.
C.   Energy Policy
11.       In its energy policy the Government pursues three objectives, to
fully develop indigenous energy resources, to improve the efficiency of
energy utilization and to limit the use of oil products to those end-uses
in which economic substitution by other energy resources, particularly
coal, is not possible. In line with this policy the Government places
particular emphasis on the development of the coal industry and the
exploration for oil and gas. To this end the Government has increased the
allocation of resources to these two sub-sectors in the forthcoming Seventh
Plan. In addition, the Government is currently considering new initiatives
to attract foreign oil companies to explore in India.
12.       This policy, whose design reflects the Government's response to
the increases in international oil prices during the 1970s, places much of
the burden of replacing oil products on the coal industry. Through pricing
policies and rationing the Government curtailed the use of oil products,
where this was technically and economically feasible, and encouraged the
use of coal. To overcome, at least in part, the distributional problems
associated with the greater use of coal, the Government encouraged also the
construction of coal-based thermal power plants.



-59-
ARM 2
MND  - CXOL !UI        AID a)    gnr=    W 3r     W
COAL ED31    AND SJUX 1984/85 - 1989/90 a/
AMS
A  g
Gh Rate
Cbal Deman              1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89  1989/90    (Z per year)
Them.l Coil
Paw                      62        72        77        87        97      110            12.2
(3)      (3)       (4)       (5)       (7)       (9)          2.6
Railbys                   9         9         8         8        8         8            (2.3)
Ceent                     7         8         8         9        11       12            11.4
Fertize                   4         4         4         5        5         6             8.5
Othr                     33        34        35       38  _    42         48             7.8
Subtotal Thezmi       115       127       132       147      163       184             9.9
QdIxWcGal                33        33        35       38        42        48             4.4
(raum Total           148       160       167       185      205       232             9.4
-~~                                          m y
CIL                     131       L34       143       158      175       1%              8.4
(3)      (3)       (4)       (5)       (7)       (9)          24.6
SaL                      12        16        17        19       22        24            14.9
TISM/IISCD                3         3         3        4         4         5            10.8
Total                 146       153       163       181      201       225             9.0
Thermal COl               116       123       132       148      165       183             9.6
WddgCol                    30        30        31       33        36        42             3.7
Total                 146       153       163       181      201       225             9.0
a/ Figu    In  rkets are the qmttlies f iubexy mddlin  uszed fer pa.
Soaces: CfMDI, flaik Staff.



- 60-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
DhIA - AL Ml  AND aOL (qJL Dnwiw PMc
EC AND )M 1EWN  POD         M M
lb asms the quality of invenctm     poztfolls of FM and SE0. a revim  hu been mdek of
projects ir i-ammtaton and az itted for approval, with focum  an tecllal vUability,
capital and operatiri  tixmtes, projec iqlemtstIn sdulble, and actual  roges. S1ze
projects  ffer in  m1 qtality, pro&xctIon profle and servics 3ife, they bv  beew brubht to a
cmn basis for the pupme of campa     thir relativ ecouwc writs uuizg the concept of
ecao  c cost per Gallode, :dch Is defin   M tm   rtio of rat prent vlm (NPV) of capital
asd operstix  cost stre   In econic tex  0to the WV of enz  content of coal prouctiOon
(w sld in Gigaclories) disuited at the  ppotunity cast of apital In Try"an emy estimated
at 12Z p.a. For thls pUrpose, cittal asd opemtki cast streem of each project hie been ajisted
to ecll  al Identifiable taf and dutis, wA a staulaz  cnersion factor of 0.8 ha been
applied to  loclly s.ppiM irpx   to reflect tkir apportlity cot to the           . The renks
thus dedi are gLven in te follwizr  table.
Caloif ic     C1pital       OpetfRg        EFnlc
Capsdty         Vale         CaGt /          Cat           Ccst
Project       (BiS      t), (kcal/kg)        (PA/tOn)      (Rs/tm)      (Rs/Gigcal)
ECL - I       1     =emAza
I.  Bao.l aVG           1.1           4600           128           79              17
2.  S Btg    UG          1.2          4900           371          111              30
3.  BaEilAUG             1.2          4900           145           88              19
4.  JKt NgrWU           0.9           4200            38           89              26
5.  Parbelia  G         0.8           5700           264           78              18
6.  Jhanjra UG          3.5           42)0           580           48              39
7.  Chinawd UG          0.7           6500           667           47              34
8.   Dtuimin UG          1.4          4900           561           88              30
9.  I ottatUh UG         1.0          5500           583           102             30
10. N. Sear Sole UG     1.2          5500            152           68              15
11. SeealpUr U;         0.6           6600          1030          142             43
12. Raj.Pu.    OC       5.0           3400           435           57             36
- For A Wprva
1.  C(Dra BlockUG       1.0          4200            589           93             41
2.  Sarpd BlodcUG       0.9           4200           419           133             38
3.  K1a5rdlhi U        1.2           400            565           93             35
4.  Guuik UG            2.0           5300           784           76              48
5.  BlhUatdukU;         1.7           5300           68D           89             37
6.  Jaili U;            1.4           5900           766           108             38
7.    alidaInpor UG     1.0           5U00           455           101             29
8.  aIdaba UG           0.7           4300           607           80              41
9.  Kttadih OC          3.0           4700           474           68             32
10. GouraidihOC         1.0           3100           418           63             35
11. Sonp       i  OC   3.0            5200           650          106             34
.12. Omm n0C             1.5          32D0            344           56             28
13. JanbmOC             2.3           5300           863          131             41
al Cpltal costs (iry1ilM  muddzr capLtal) per mtof aEuzal cap  ty in ealy 1985 tem.



; 61-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Cmlod.ElC    aCpita 0alratizb            Eonwlc
C:aaty         Valim         Cmt 5/ Ctst                 cozt
Project                                     (/tn t)       (R/ton)     P/G4pcaI)
SEMl - Uner  iplsiatimi 1/
1.  PaliUG              0.5          42W0           264           56             19
2.  Ncph Ur             1.2          5300           138           66             14
3.  ChidIa UG           0.5          5300           327           91             22
4.  Slwra UG            1.0          3400           381          152             50
5.  Snr UG              1.5          3400           332           73             36
6.  Balgi UG            0.6          5600           495          100             26
7.  Rajgaw Ur.          0.7          5300           509           98             28
8.  Churds W. UG        0.6          5600           544           74             24
9.  Ppr UC              0.7          6200           323          137             25
10. I    Rir wR. UC     0.6          5300           186          77              16
11. Goisa UG            0.6          5300           238           80            18
12. Svpuri UG           0.5          4200           369          I00            30
13. Jamm  UG           0.5           4900           225          91             20
14. Ne Chadui UG        0.6          4600           219          87             21
15. llWr UG            0.7           4200           387          104             32
16. Kawnta OC           6.0          3800           284           61            23
17. Ge aOC              5.0          3100           153           54             21
18.  uer OC             1.8          3830           138           46            36
19. Sti OC              1.0          3500           284           39            21
20. Bsuanpw OC          1.3          560D           197           52             12
21. Becpahar OC         2.0          3700           316           59             24
22. lajmra oc           1.0          2500           273           46             30
23. G4gm OC             1.5          3900           458           71             33
24. Padmpur Oc          1.3          38D0           418           73             34
25. NewMajri OC         1.0          4000           232           61             19
26. Rajapr OC           1.0          390O           258           50            22
(iEM - For a4Ep I 1/
1.  Namian UG           0.6          6100           304          140             24
2.  TazUisiU;           0.9          5000           585           98             37
3.  Bh4gatn UG          0.6          5600           465          118             27
4.  Shobhqxr UG         0.6          49q0           330          121             27
5.  Katkona U           0.8          560D           421          104             25
6.  Gevra Exp. OC       5.0          3100           224           43            25
7.  KuraslaExp. OC      1.0          4900           296           83             21
8.  Dlk*aOC             2.0          3100           283           50             26
9.  Nljal OC            1.9          30             475           94             37
1/ Al9no li   0.. projects.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 10
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FAZAL COMMITTEE REPORT - SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendation                                 Government Decision
1.   The long-term Standing Linkage           Accepted.
Committee should at suitable
intervals of say every 5 years
review the entire pattern of
coal linkage to thermal power
stations - whether existing,
under construction or proposed
- in order to eliminate
irrationalities that might
have crept in, though frequent
shifting of coal linkages
should be avoided.
2.   Rajmahal, Talcher, Singrauli,             Accepted, except that coal
Korba Mand-Raigarh, Hasdeo-              from Wardha has to be supplied
Arand, North Karanpura,                  to consumers in South India
Hanuguru, Wardha and some                such as cement plants to make
portion of lb Valley                     up the shortfall from
coalfields should be mainly              Singarani, and these linkages
reserved for pithead                     will have to continue.
generation.
3.   Raniganj, Jharia, North
Karanpura, some portion of Ib            Accepted.
Valley and Godavari Valley
coalfields should be the main
sources of coal supply to
power stations located at load
centers.
4.   The power stations in Northern
India (Punjab, Haryana, Delhi            Accepted.
and U.P.) should be linked
mainly to Bihar/Bengal
coalfields only.
5.   All power stations located in
Bihar, west Bengal and the               Accepted.
areas in Assam served by the
broadguage railway line should
be linked to Bihar/Bengal
coalfields.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 10
Recommendation                                  Government Decision
6.   The existing linkages of old               Accepted, however CEA should
power stations to superior                examine each case of such old
grade coals of Ranigani, South             power stations using A & B
Karanpura, Central India and               Grades of coal, to see whether
Pench-Kanhan Valley Coalfields             it is economically viable to
should .tontinue till power               continue the operation of
stations exist.                            these power stations and
indicate to the Department of
Coal when they are expected to
be closed down. This will
also help in the saving of
higher grades of coal which
can be supplied to industrial
consumers who need such coal.
7.   Power stations in Rajasthan                Railways have not accepted
should be linked to Singrauli,             this.  They have stated that
and in case of need for                    power stations in Rajasthan
alternative source from North              should be linked to Singrauli
Karanpura Coalfields.                      and CIC (WCL).  Hence this
recommendation is not
accepted.
8.   New Power Stations in Gujrat               The recommendation in respect
should be l'nked to Korba and             of South Guiarat Power
Ib Valley, Hasdeo-Arand and               Stations is accepted.  It has
Mand-Raigarh coalfields.                   been decided that Railways
should examine the extent of
investmint required and take
appropriate action for
building up the capacity.
Regarding power stations for
North Gujarat, Railways have
suggested that the linkages
should be to CIC fields.
This may not be feasible since
the potential for growth In
CIC is limited. To meet the
requirements of power stations
adequately, it would be
necessary to link power
stations in North Gujarat also
to Korba. Railways may be
asked to examine the matter
again.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 10
Recommendation                                  Government Decision
9.   Power Stations In Maharashtra              Accepted.  However Wardha,
should be linked to Wardha                Umrar and Kamptea will not be
Valley, Umrar and Kamptea                 able to meet the requirements
Coalfields.                               of MSEB Power Stations.  At
present 60Z of the linkages of
Koradi TPS are met from Gevra-
Kusounda. This needs to be
examined further.
10.  Power Stations in Southern                Accepted.  However, due to
Maharashtra should, however,              inadequate availability of
be linked to Godavari Valley              coal from SCCL, the flfth unit
Coalfields.                               of Parli has been linked to lb
Valley.
11.  Existing linkages from                     Existing linkage to Wanakbori
Singrauli Coalfields to                   from Singrauli may continue.
Wanakbori and Trombay power               Trombay may be linked either
stations should, however,                 to CIC or NPKW.
continue.
12.  Power Stations in Southern                 Accepted.
India should be linked to
Godavari Valley Coalfields.
Existing linkage of Tutico-rin
thermal power station to
Raniganj Coalfield should,
however, continue.
13.  The number of mines supplying             Accepted to the extent
oal to a particular power                 feasible considering the
station should not exceed ten             availability of coal, loading
in any case and be preferably             capacity, etc.
three or four in case of
bigger mines.
14.  The Planning Commission should            Accepted.
attempt to give to the coal
department periodically a
forecast of the region-wise
power-generation program, and
the consequential coal
requirement.
15.  It is desirable to have cushion           Accepted.
in terms of the linkage against
actual consumption so that over
a period of time, with the
actual supply being in excess
of consumption requirements,
some ground stocks could be
built up.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 10
Recommendation                                  Government Decision
16.  Annual reviews of requirement             Accepted.
of coal for power stations are
suggested to be done at the
time of formation of the
annual plans and made known to
all agencies concerned so that
the program for generation of
power, the production of coal
and its transportation can be
planned accordingly. The Coal
Projects linked to a
particular power station
should be approvtd at least
three years in advance of the
approval of the power station
to which they are linked in
view of the longer gestation
period of the coal projects.
17.  All collieries linked for coal            Accepted.
supply to thermal power
stations should have
mechanized facilities to load
a full large rake of minimum
44 box wagons.
18.  In case of collieries where               Accepted.
setting up of facilities for
full rake loading is not
possible because of low
production or non-availability
of land, a centralized loading
point for a group of such
collieries should be
established.
19.  Box 'N' wagons should be                  Accepted.  However, railways
introduced in existing                    should take early decisions on
collieries/power stations for             the free-time allowed for
movement of power coal in                 loading and unloading of Box
consultations with the                    'N' rakes.  Also, since Box
collieries/power stations.                'N' cannot be weighed on the
existing weighbridges the
carrying capacity of the
wagons and the mode of loading
should be decided by the
railways after proper trials
in association with the coal
companies and consumers.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 1o
Recommendation                                 Government Decision
20.  Box 'N' wagons should be                  Accepted subject to the
introduced as per program                 condition as pointed out
suggested by the Railways to              against recommendation No. 19.
the coal mine.
21.  The issue of granting free                Accepted.
loading/unloading time more
than 5 hours for manual
loading/unloading may be
looked into by Railways.
22.  Open wagons should be                     Accepted.
supplied to collieries having
mechanical loading facilities
and to power stations having
mechanical unloading
facilities. Railways should
try to supply covered wagons
only to manually loading
points and manually unloading
ends.
23.  Where only manual loading                 Accepted.
facilities are available, the
wagons should be supplied
barring exceptional
circumstances at specified
pilot time.
24.  The supply of wagons by the               Accepted.
railways should be according
to the offer of slack or steam
made by the colliery for that
particular day. The colliery
should indent according to
standard rake size and siding
capacity and should not indent
for undersize rakes. Railways
will supply accordingly.
25.  The Committee recommends                  Accepted.  However, Railways
reconciliation by railways for           should take an early decision
restoration or tolerance for             for restoration of the
overloading and underloading             tolerance fc- underloading/
of wagons.                               overloading of wagons.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 10
Recomendation                                  Government Decision
26.  Arrangements provided for                 Accepted.
mechanical unloading at power
stations should be kept in
absolutely good working
order.
27.  The minimum coal stock at the             Accepted.
power stations should be
equivalent to 4-5 weeks'
consumption, and that at
loading points should be
equivalent to 2-3 weeks'
dispatches.
28.  Railways should ensure                    The actual movement during
movement of coal for power                1983-84 for power stations was
plants at an average of 5,470            at the rate of 4,891 wagons
wagons per day during 198,-84.            per day.  Railways should move
at the rate of 6,235 wagons
per day.
29.  Coal weighing facilities                  Accepted.
should be provided at all
major loading points, and at
all power stations.
30.  The weighbridges provided,                Accepted.
both at loading points and
power stations, should be
regularly recalibrated.
31. Gradually, electronic weigh-               Accepted.  However, before
bridges should be installed in           installing the weighbridges,
place of the existing                     all relevant factors including
mechanical weighbridges and               the possibility of underload-
all future installations                 ing and overloading should be
should be electronic weigh-              examined.  In electronic
bridges, which would provide             weighbridges, once weight is
recording of tear of wagons.             recorded automatically while
the rake is in motion, no
adjustment is possible if
there is underloading/
overloading. In such cases
railways should allow
reasonable tolerances so that
payment of penal freight is
avoided.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 10
Recomuendation                                 Government Decision
32.  Bottom discharge wagons for               Accepted.  However, railways
transport of coal from                   should consult the power sta-
collieries to power stations             tions and the Coal Companies
should be introduced as soon             before deciding on any change
as possible to facilitate                 in the design of wagons.
convenient and quick unloading           Otherwise, problems will arise
at power plants.                         later on, as has happened in
the case of Box 'N'.
33.  Government should examine the             Accepted with the condition
feasibility of utilizing                 that no subsidy would be pay-
coastal shipping for transport           able in respect of such
of coal to power stations.  If           movement.
necessary, Government may
consider extension of a
subsidy for such movement.
34.  Railways should take suitable             Accepted.
steps to increase line
capacity to enable evacuation
of coal from North Karanpura
coalfields to power stations
in Northern India.
35.  Railways should increase the              Accepted.
line capacity in Gevra Road
Champa Section.
36.  The program of installation of            Accepted.
coal handling plants and mini
coal handling plants is to be
implemented on schedule and
the coal companies should give
priority and monitor its
implementation vigorously.
Whenever coal handling plants
are installed, the entire coal
of the mine must pass through
coal handling plants and by
pass is avoided.
37.  Pneumatic/hydraulic hammers              Accepted.
and grabs should be provided
near the grizzley at the
loading end of the mine and
unloading end of the power
houses.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 10
Recommendation                                 Government Decision
38.  In small and medium mines                 Accepted.
which are supplying coal to
power stations either singly
or jointly with others should
be provided with crushers of
permanent/semi-permanent/
portable in conjunctioa. with
mini coal handling plants for
enabling these collieries to
load coal of proper sizes.
39.  The shale stone picking area              Accepted.
should be well lighted to
ensure that dirt and stone are
completely removed before coal
is loaded into rakes.
40.  The joint sampling arrangement            Accepted.
at each coal mine as decided
by the Ministry of Energy
should be put into effect at
once and should from basis of
agreement between coal
producer and thermal power
stations.
41.  Electronic sorters for dirt               Accepted.
separation should be
introduced as soon as possible
at coal mines.
42.  Coal should be tested for                 Accepted.
arriving at the design
dimension of mechanical
cleaning equipment.
43. The stacking ground at coal                Accepted as far as stacking
mines and power stations                 areas at loading points and at
should be made of properly               the power houses are
compacted formation to prevent           concerned.
contamination.
44.  Simple beneficiation circuit              Accepted.
should be designed for Indian
coals which are difficult to
wash and which cannot be used
in boilers in ROM condition.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 10
Recommendation                                  Government Decision
45.  Railways should take care,                 Accepted.
while diverting rakes meant
for one consumer to another,
to ensure the proper quality
and size as needed by consumer.
46.  Automatic Ash Indicator (coal              Accepted.
analyzer) should be installed
in coal handling plants.
47.  The coal mine supplying coal               Accepted.
to power plants should supply,
at the time of drawing of
agreements of coal supply,
authenticated quality certifi-
cates relating to ash and
moisture content, with copy to
Central Electricity Authority,
and there should not be a
variation of more than 5% in
quality, in any consignment
actually supplied during the
currency of coal supply con-
tract between the colliery and



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 10
Recommendation                                  Governuent Decision
49. The Committee recommended that              Accepted.
even for power stations
located in load centers,
linkage should be made to
specific mines.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MEJASURES TO DMPROVE COAL QUALITY 1/
A. Thermal Coal
With the enormous increases in the demand of coal, psrticularly
in the power sector, there has been definite spurt in coal production
during recent years. From a meager 15.4 million tonnes of coal demand from
power houses during 1970-71, it now stands at a level of 63.5 million
tonnes in 1985-86. Against this, the actual take-off was 65.2 million
tonnes which reflects a demand materialization of 102.7Z. In fact dispatch
to power sector works out to about 50% of total CIL dispatch. Nationalized
coal sector has not only been meeting this increased demand but is also
geared up to meet the future growth in the demand of the power sector. In
fact, the year 1989-90 will likely see nearly 64% of total CIL dispatch to
various power stations, with the supplying pattern effectively streamlined,
keeping in view their qualitative and quantitative requirement.
1. Fluctuations in Coal Quality and Efforts to Reduce the Same:
Occasionally there has been fluctuations in the qual$ty of coal
being supplied to the power stations when compared to the design parameters
of their boilers. Some of the old power stations are continuing with their
old boilers designed for consumption of higher grade coal with low ash
content. However, with the depletion of higher grades of coal, the ash
content of coal supplies is on the rise with the result that despite
efforts made by CIL, complaints on quality have at times been received from
power stations. Modern and new thermal power stations, however, have been
designed for consumption of coal with high ash and therefore complaints on
quality from such power stations are seldom received.
The main complaint in respect of coal supplied to such power
stations are receipt of lumpy coal and shale etc. Different power stations
have different sizes of opening in their grizzlies (metal gratings) at the
coal receiving point. Any piece bigger than the size of such opening is
termed as oversized and complaints are then made. However, the same coal
would be quite acceptable at other power stations with larger openings in
their grizzlies.
Linkage of coal is normally provided in such a way that low ash
coal is supplied to those power stations that essentially need it. While
making supplies to such power stations, collieries are also taking recourse
to extensive shale picking etc. so that the ash content in coal remains
within the stipulated limit. However, for a permanent solution it is
desirable that all power stations should phase out old boilers and replace
them with units that can consume high ash coal which is available in plenty
today. It is a matter of regret that none of the older power stations have
so far given a thought to bringing in new technology for consumption of
this high ash coal.
1/ Provided by CIL.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
Presently about 44% of the total coal supplied to the power
stations is loaded manually. There is no chance of any complaint of
oversized coal in the supplies made through CHPs but the possibility of
passage of oversizes in the manual loading collieries cannot altogether be
eliminated. The reason for such may be due to loading of wagons by
payloaders when the supplies are made in the night time or odd hours and
enough payloaders are not available. The oversized problem is likely to be
eliminated altogether when the entire coal passes through the CHPs. It is
planned that by 1988-89 about 90% of our total power coal could be routed
through CHPs.
The above, coupled with occasional diversion of rakes by the
railways also cause problems in matter of both size and quality as coal
earmarked for a particular consumer may not be suitable for another to whom
the rake has been diverted.
It is thus suggested that while power stations gradually phase
out their old boiler and bring in new technology to accommodate high ash
coal, railways on their part should also make placement of rakes at a fixed
time at every siding and provide adequate loading time for loading of
rakes. Thus, a concerted effort of the three agencies namely the CIL, the
railways and the power houses can only bring forth a solution to the
problem.
2. Investment Program in Commissioning of Coal Handling Plants:
At present around 56% of the total dispatches are routed through
Coal Handling Plants (CHPs). In 1984-85 alone, 13 major and 19 mini-CHPs
with an aggregate annual capacity of 24 million tonnes have been
commissioned. Coal India is expected to construct another 23 major CHPs
with an aggregate capacity of almost 29 million tonnes during 1986-87. It
is expected that 90% of the dispatches would be make through CHPs at the
end of the 7th Plan period. Built in capacity of CHPs are as below:
million tonnes
(i)  Existing CHPs as on 1/7/85                                    76.78
(ii)  CHPs under construction                                       51.54
(iii)  CHPs proposed during the 7th Plan period                      51.44
It has been decided to provide all future CHPs with such
facilities as screening/crushing and/or feeder breaker wherever necessary.
Cost of commissioning of CHPs under construction as also those in
the Project would be around Rs 181.66 crores. Company-wise break up of
cost would be as below:



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 9
No. of       Capacity       Cost Involved
Company        CHPs         (tonnes)       (lakh Rupees)
ECL             9            8.74            4699.36
BCCL            9            4.96            1052.58
CCL             5           15.60            8339.00
WCL             11          19.02            4075.45
34          48.32            18166.39
A time bound schedule has been drawn up and close monitoring of
progress of construction of CHPs has been resorted too, so that no
unneces;sary delay takes place at any point of time to retard progress of
work.
3. Other Infrastructural Facilities:
Similarly other infrastructural facilities such as provision of
weighbridges at all major loading points have been made to ensure loading
of desired quantity, so that consumers do not suffer on account of either
loss or excess supply. While there is a program for installation of new
weighbridges (ECL - 4, CCL - 4, BCCL - 1 and SECL - 1), another 12 existing
weighbridges would be modified as per requirement.
Well equipped laboratories have been provided at all areas for
quick assessment of quality and necessary feedback for assuring better
future supplies. It has also been decided to build some express
laboratories at some of the major loading collieries for quick analysis of
samples.
4. Improvement in Quality of ROM Coal from Open Cast Mines:
The deterioration in quality takes place due to admixture of
extraneous materials along with coal during extraction specially in OCP
mines where overburden stones often gets mixed up and create quality
problems. Thus need for planned extraction of coal specially in OCP mines
have been felt. Annual plans of each mine has been drawn to identify bench
formation and maintaining them always sufficiently in advance during
extraction to prevent any contamination.  In case of bands of over one
meter thickness, these will be separately mined. The deployment of small
capacity hydraulic shovels in conjunction with 160 mm drills will enable
bands to be removed separately.
5.        Dry beneficiation of coal after crushing and screening is under
consideration and will be introddced in a phased manner, for +10 mm size
fraction.
6.        Washing of poor grade coal for large consumers has been
considered. It has been decided that coal that will be supplied to power
plants of the National Capital region from North Karanpura as also Southern
region power plants from the new mines at Kolinga will be crushed.



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
7. Other Remedial Steps:
Other remedial steps taken to ensure proper quality and size of
coal dispatches to power stations are:
(i) Joint Sampling Agreements:
Contractual agreement of Joint sampling for bulk coal supplies has
been reached with various State Electricity Boards (vide Annexure I)
which provides for necessary adjustment of bonus or penalty as the
case may be from subsequent bills. As per agreement, joint sampling
shall initially be done at the loading and based on which coal
companies will raise bills. Joint sampling will be done at the
power houses and at fixed block period of four to six hours per
day. Destination-end sampling will however be the deciding factor
for final payment. In fact, with the signing of the agreement and
introduction of joint sampling number of complaints have come down
sharply.   Company-wise comparative position for the years 1984-85
and 1985-86 are given below:
Company             1984-85        1985-86
ECL                     28            55
BCCL                   89             20
CCL                   318             30
WCL                    163            31
CIL (Total)            598           136
Percentage of supplies involved under complaint is only 0.23X of
overall dispatch to power stations. Month-wise complaint position
in respect of subsidiary companies for the year 1985-86 is given in
Annexure II.
(ii) Grade Control:
Reassessment of coal seams of every working mine is done seam-wise
for reidentification (regradation) of coal quality and declare the
grade in the beginning of each financial year. Periodic check
samples are also drawn to verify the quality of coal being
dispatched.
(iii) Inspection Facilities to Consumers During Loading:
The facility of joint inspection of coal being loaded has been
provided at each loading po'.nt and any consumer can avail himself of
the same for instant rectification of wagons in case that is
necessary. Inspection registers are also provided where consumer
can put on record his observation about standard of loading and/or
his reaction to the facilities provided.



- 76 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
(iv) Feedback on Supply:
Regular feedback on quality is followed up as below:
(a) In order to get proper feedback mainly on quality,
representatives of the supplying companies are stationed at
major power stations for round the clock monitoring of quality
and size of coal being supplied.
(b) Review of quality performance In respect of each subsidiary
company is made every week and suggestions put forward for
future guidance.
(c) Regular quality audit inspections are carried out at producing
end and at destination end and monthly reports a._e prepared
incorporating monthly weight average ash p.c. in supplies to
PEs as determined by joint sampling and is at Annexure III.
Results are not at all unsatisfactory as barring a few cases,
majority of cases ash p.c. supplies are within norm of power
house boilers.
Cd) For achieving quality control, the existing management
structure of quality control department at different levels is
being made uniform in each subsidiary. The Quality Control
Department will have three tiers and will be responsible for
quality of coal being loaded, implementation of remedial
measures to improve quality, etc.
6. Implementation of the Recommendation of the Fazal Committee and
Government' s Acceptance Thereof:
Statement showing various recommendations of the Fazal Committee
on coal supplies to TPSs and Government's decision thereof is enclosed at
Annexure IV. As will be seen from the statevent, most of the
recomiendations have been accepted by the Government, many of which are
already in operation as decided time to time under the SLC Meeting. Those
yet to le operated are being sorted out by the Government or by direct
dialogue between CIL/coal companies and the railways/PSs.
While in a number of cases, implementations of Governient
decisions depend upon the railways acceptance of the issues, CIL's shaxe
primarily rests in implementation of the decisions at paras. 29-31, 36-48
which mainly deals in building up infrastructural facilities and protocol
of joint sampling agreement with power stations. As already enumerated in
earlier paragraphs above, building of infrastructural facilities in the
form of CHPs/weighbridges at all the major loading points have already been
taken at hand. As regards installation of electronic weightbridges, it has
been decided to provide the same at ten load centers of CCL and WCL
initially. All future CHPs will be provided with crushers and slow moving
picking belts, latter to enable shale pickers to work effectively. Advice
has already been issued to all loading personnel to onsure that dirt and
stone are completely removed from the siding and this is being monitored.
W....~.



- 77 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
As regards payment of bonus/penalty on the basis of analysis of joint
sampling with PRs, this has already been taikn care of in joint sampling
agreement reached with various power stations.
7. Conclusion:
Concerted efforts from all concerned have resulted in reduction
of the number of complaints from power stations which are negligible in
terms of percentage of total supplies. This will be apparent from D.O.
letter from Minister of State for Power to the Union Minister of Steel,
Mines and Coal who expressed his appreciation as below:
'As a result of the steps taken by the Department of Coal there is
an improvement in the quality of coal and the plant load factor
of the thermal stations in March 1985 was 55.5Z which is the
highest during the last two years."
In fact, the PLF (overall) of thermal power plants during April-
December 1985 was 50.8 against 48.0 during the corresponding period the
previous year.  There has also been an increase in generation of 15.7Z
during this period.                                 -
B.   Coking Coal
As part of the Jharia Coal Project, 'CIL are preparing an annual
progress report on actions to improve prime coking coal quality including
inter alia statistics on the ash content of raw coking coal production by
mine, and washed coking coal by washery plus a text discussing progress
regarding the following matters and its impact on coal quality.  CIL have
initiated the following measures which are already providing improvements
in washed coal production:
(i)  elimination of substandard coals and more intensive picking
arrangements;
(ii)  deployment of more experienced a d qualified personnel for
washery operation;
(iii) closer monitoring of washery operations;
(iv) increased capital expenditure for washery improvement;
(v)  installation of rotary breakers at certain washeries; and
(vi)  utilization of premium quality Assam coal for blending purposes.
In addition, CIL is preparing the following measures which should
provide benefits in the longer term:
(i)  upgrading of slurry by froth flotation at Dugda I and II;
modification to Patheridih Washery;
(ii)  trials with prescreening jigs at Barora Washery;
(iii) development of new areas of superior quality prime coking coal;
(iv)  installation of new coal handling plants;
(v)  testing of certain disputed coals by Central Fuel Research
Institute; and
(vi)  possible establishment of a Washery Institute.
Source: CIL.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
ANNEXURE I
Name of Power Stations with Whom Agreement Reached for Joint Sampling:
Si.     Electricity       Power        Si       Electricity      Power
No.        Board          Station      No.          Board       Station
1.      W B S E B         Bandel-TPS   11.      0 S e B         Talcher
Santaldih
Gouripur.    12.      A S E B         Bangaigaon
2.      D V C             Durgapur     13.      H S E B         (Faridabad
Chandrapura.                          (Panipath
3.      B S E B           Barauni      14.      OTHERS          DPL
Patratu                               (WB Gvt.)
Muzaffarpur.
Pvt.(AEC
4.      U P S E B        KESA                                   (Renusagar
Panki
Harduagani   15.      D E S U          Indraprastha
OBRA.                                  Rajghat.
5.      P S E B          GNDTP
Bhatinda
Rupar.
6.      N T P C           Singrauli
Badarpur
Farakka
Korba
7.      R S E B          K O T A.
8.      G E B            Gandhinagar
9.      M P E B          KORBA
Amarkantak
Sarni.
10.     M S E B          Koradih
Khaparkheda
Nask.i
Bhuswal
Chandrapur
Ballars-hah.



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 9
ANNEXURE II
Month-Wise Complaint Received
from Power Stations
(1985-1986)
CCL                WCL
Months            ECL       BCCL      (Including NCL)    (Including SECL)
April '85          2          4              1                    5
May '85            5         3               6                    2
June '85           5         7               2                   14
July '85           5         5               1                    4
August '85         7          1              2                    6
Septerber '85      5         -               2                    6
October '85        5         -               2                    1
November '85       4         -               3                    4
December '85       9         -               6                    1
January '86        4         -               1                    1
February '86       4         -               1                    1
March '86          5         -               I                    I
Total 85-86     55        20              30                   31
Total 84-85     28        89             318                  163



- 80-
ANNE 5
Page 9 of 9
ANNW M
Wothy gb1gt AwEr AMh P.C. In Bpmes to Thuruml Por StatLam
- A dI-Dsi*ii2r 1985)
Nam of       Noz of Ash
Powr Stati                     Atw     NW     Jum    Juy    Avg    Sep    Oct    Now   DIC
BuRel                 35       24.5    24.6   26.2  '4.5    22.9   22.3   22.8   23.2   24.6
Santaldih          28-35       24.7    25.9   24.4   23.8    24.6   23.5   23.5   23.3   22.4
03kA               25-33       30.0    31.7   32.1   32.1    29.6   31.3   30.5      -      -
OESLJ (BCL         32-45         .     32.0   30.9   33.0    31.1   40.8   30.9   36.3      -
CIPS (BOCL)           40       29.2    31.7   33.7   33.7    32.2   35.0  31.6  30.3        -
BIPS (L)           24-33       35.4    35.8   33.9   35.0   32.9   34.7   36.1   35.9       -
TIPS (CCL)         37-44       33.5    37.2   36.5   31.5   36.8   35.9   36.3   36.3       -
Lhiapeda              28       29.0    30.5   26.9   29.4    30.4   24.0   25.0   30.5   24.7
Balluzalh          24-26       18.7    18.3   18.1   19.1    18.0   19.0   18.7   18.6   18.9
Paras              25-35       28.4    27.3   NS     32.6    NS     N      27.2   26.5   30.3
Nasid              25-30       28.0    28.0   28.5   28.4   27.8   27.7   27.9   27.1   27.5
Ganxihinagar           -       30.3    27.9   30.0   24.5    21.0   23.5   22.2   22.0   21.4
Ukai                  28       28.8   24.5   28.7   23.5   24.7   24.2   24.7  22.2   25.5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 82. -
ANNEM 6
Page 1 of 3
INDIA - ODAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
COAL PRICE SCHEDULE a/
(Effective January 8, 1986)
Grade                         Specification            Price (Rs/ton)
A. Non-Coking b/
Grade A         UHV exceeding 6200 kcal/kg cJ                296
Grade 8          WV 5600-6199 kcallkg                        269
Grade C         UHV 4940-5599 kcal/kg                        235
Grade D         UHV 4200-4939 kcal/kg                        205
Grade E         UWV 3360-4199 kcal/kg                        138.5
Grade F         UHV 2400-3359 kcal/kg                        108.5
Grade G         UHV 1300-2399 kcal/kg                         74.5
Singareni Coalfields
Grade C                                                      332.5
Grade D                                                      292.5
Grade E                                                      252.5
Grade F                                                      183.5
Grade G                                                      143.5
Assam Ungraded      342
B. Coking
Steel Grade 1       Ash not exceeding 15%                        480
Steel Grade 2       Ash not exceeding 18%                        402
Washery Grade I     Ash not exceeding 21%                        347
Washery Grade II    Ash not exceeding 24%                        289
Washery Grade III   Ash not exceeding 28%                        222
washery Grade IV    Ash not exceeding 352                        207
C. Semi-Coking
Grade I         Ash plus moisture not exceeding 192          347
Grade II        Ash plus moisture not exceeding 24%          289
D. Hard Coke
By-product Hard Coke Premium Ash Not Exceeding 25%             1,110
- " ~- Ordinary -   -              25-30%        1,000
Beehive      -       Premium  -                 27Z              880
-        -    - Superior -   -        -    27-31%            730
-        -    - Ordinary -                  31-362           500
E.  Soft Coke
For Industrials                                                  300
For Domestic use                                                 175
a/  This schedule refers to ex-pithead prices of run-of-mine coal excluding
all statutory levies and sales tax which are chargeable extra as per
the prevailing rates.
b/  Long flame coals (grades A-D) have a surcharge of Rs 25 per ton.
ci Useful Heat Value (UWV) is defined by the following formula:
UHV - 8,900 - 138 (A+M) where UHV - Useful Heat Value in Kcal/kg,
A - Ash eontent in 2 M, - moisture content in Z.



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
STATUTORY LEVIES AND SALES TAX
(As of January 1, 1987)
1. Statu.ory Levies
A. Co_mmn for All States
1. Royalty
Coking                                 Non-Coking
Grade                          Re/ton    Grade                          Rs/ton
Steel I                         7.00       A                             6.50
Steel II                        7.00       B                             6.50
Washery I                       7.00       C                             5.50
Washery II                      6.50       D                             4.30
Washery III                     6.50       E                             4.30
Washery IV                      5.50       F                             2.50
Semi-Coking I                   6.50       G                             2.50
Semi-Coking II                  6.50
Assam Coal                      6.50
2. Stowing excise duty - Non-Coking                Rs 3.50/ton
- Coking                  Rs 4.25/ton
3.  Coal mines labor welfare cess                 Rs 0.75/bon
B. other Levies
West Bengal
1.  Rural employment and production cess                20% on coal value
2.  Primary education cess                               5% on coal value
3.  Public Works and Road cess                               Rs 1.00/ton
4.  Asansol Mines Board Health cess                          Rs 0.40/ton
Bihar                                                             06/21/85
1.  Cess on Coal                                        30% on coal price
2.  Royalty cess                                         5% on Royalty
3.  Jharia Mines Board Health cess (BCCL only)                Rs 3.50/ton
Orissa    -
1.  Mineral Area Development cess                      200% on Royalty



- 83 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
Madhya Pradesh
1. Mineral Area Development cess                        125Z on Royalty
2.  Storage cess                                              Rs 2.00/ton
Maharastra
1.  Cess on Royalty                                      10Z on Royalty
II. Sales Tax
4Z sales tax is charged on coal values plus all statutory levies.



- 84 -
ANNEX 7
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SCOPE OF WORK FOR ASSISTANCE ON WORKSHOP DESIGN
A. OBJECTIVE
To assist the CIL Group to design modern workshops to fully meet
CIL's requirements to service mechanized open-pit mining equipment.
B. SCOPE OF WORK
The consultant should assess th! present (Singrauli) and
projected (Korba and Raniganj) requirements of workshop services within
CIL, in close consultation with its counterpart, and should assist in the
location and design of state-of-the-art factilities to meet CIL's needs.
The assistance will cover in particular the following areas:
(1)  Repair and Maintenance Facilitiv.=.  Review the adequacy and
capacity of existing repair and maiatenance facilities,
tooling, procedures and skills of peisonnel in light of
existing fleet of equipment and its actual service
requirements.
(2)  Additional Workshops.  Size, location and design of
state-of-the-art workshops for open cast and underground
coal mining equipment, on basis of projected increase of
quantity and capacity of equipment as reviewed in
consultancy with counterpart staff. Detailed consideration
should be given in designs to permit future expansions, and
whenever possible to design these expansions.
(3)  Fabrication of Spares.  Associated with the workshops, the
consultants should also design foundry and machine/tool
facilities, in consultancy with counterpart staff, to
fabricate spares required within CIL.
C. DURATION AND REPORTS
The work, which should be initiated by December 31, 1987 and
completed by December 31, 1988, will require about 36 man-months of effort
by consultants with sound background in the design of workshops for large
mining operations. The consultants should issue an interim report
regarding location, size and service options of the proposed workshops. On
completion, workshop designs and a final report would be issued concerning
the implementation of the facilities.



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SCOPE OF WORK FOR ASSISTANCE ON MANPOWER PLANNING AND TRAINING
A. OBJECTIVES
To assist the CIL Group in improving its training and manpower
planning sys8tems for the entire organization.
B. SCOPE OF WORK
The consultants should provide assistance regarding (i) improving
the training setup of the CIL Group, (ii) developing a computerized
manpower planning system, and (iii) establishing the requirements for and
undertaking detailed design work to assist the development of two
excevation training centers. Based on their conclusions, they should
present detailed and specific recommendations. Their work should focus on
the following aspects:
(a) Training
Assistance for training should be mainly oriented to:
I,   Organization and policies.  Review cof present training
structure, policies, norms, controls, communicateons and relationships,
both between CIL and subsidiaries, and among the latter. Particular
emphasis should be given to implementation of training policies and
relationships between training and production activities.
2.  Training capabilities.  Review and assess existing training
activities (on-the-job and off-the-job, and outside CIL), programs and
facilities (Centers and Institutes), in terms of their qualitative and
quantitative ability to satisfy present and projected training
requirements. This review should include the following areas, presenting
specific recommendations for improvement:
(i) the competence and skills of training officers and
instructors (sample);
(ii) the curriculum and course content for different trades
(including supervisory and management training);
(iii) the capability of outside institutions at present training
CIL Group personnel;
(iv) adequacy of facilities, equipment, training aids,
audio-visual aids, and written teaching materials; and
(v) review of present evaluation (if existent) of training
activities.
3.   Training needs and training program.  Assess present
methodology for determination of training needs both at CIL and
subsidiaries level. The consultants should present a very detailed
proposal for determining training needs because this is one of the weakest
points at the CiL Group. Based on identified needs, the consultants should



- 86 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
prepare a detailed training program for the next five years, which the
consultants will implement in a specific subsidiary (SECL), where they vLll
train a number of training officers on this task. This exercise would
include a preliminary estimate of additional facilities to be established
and programs to be developed.
4.   Evaluation of results.  After reviewing existing practices,
the consultants will present a proposal for periodic evaluation of training
activities and the follow-up of the implementation of training programs.
5.   Unskilled personnel.  A review will be undertaken of this
highly populated category to derive conditions suitable for establishing
policies and procedures regarding their possible utilization/training/
education and changes in recruitment policies.
(b)  Manpower Planning
1.   System Development
xi)  Manpower Data Base.  The consultants should study and
analyze in close consultation with its counterpart the
existing manpower planning system (MPS) within CIL. They
should also review the present data base of the MPS and the
reliability of its source data. The consultant should
assess the acceptability of present practices including
level of detail and recommend detailed procedures for
reaching more disaggregated data in the system that may
allow a sound MPS.
(ii) Manpower Needs. The consultants should evaluate the present
methods for deducing manpower needs from corporate work
plans, expansions, projects, levels of activity, manning
levels per type of operations and skills inventory. In
consultations with the counterpart and managers, the
consultant will recommend specific modifications so that
needs can be directly related to availability with adequate
level of detail.
(iii)  Manpower Supply.  The consultants should also review and
evaluate present methods for analyzing current manpower
resources, changes in manpower resources, turnover analysis
and replacement, changes in work conditions, and external
supply factors.
- should relate these elements to the potential impact of
changes of technology and labor productivity for the
future years on the manpower structure (occupational mix)
and propose adequate models.
- another aspect will be analysis of the composition of
overstaffing at all unskilled and semiskilled level and
the clarification of recruitment and training policies
regarding this level of staff.



- 87 -                    ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
(iv) Manpower Forecasting. The consultants should review (a) the
statistical methods presently used for forecasting, (b) the
appropriate level of details in skill mix and organizational
level, analyze them and make recommendatons for improvement.
(v) Computerization. The consultants should review the current
limited use of the computer in CIL's MPS and recommend
procedures of more effective use, including personnel
information systems, coding and data collection analysis.
Also assess needs for (1) CIL HQ' and (2) subsidiary
companies.
2.   System Implementation.  After agreeing on the new MPS, for
which hardware and software would be provided as part of the project, the
recommendations would be implemented by CIL with the help of the
consultants. Once the system is operatonal, follow-up assistance will be
required to monitor its performance and rectify any problem.
C. DURATION AND REPORTS
The work, which should be initiated by December 31, 1987 and
completed by December 31, 1989, will require about 66 man-onths by
consultants with solid experience in training and manpower planning systems
for mining companies and/or other organizations with very large
workforces. The first stage, which should last twelve months (and will
entail 48 man-months effort), will consist of (i) the review of and
recommendations for improving CIL's training set-up, including a proposed
five year training program for SECL (18 months); and (ii) the detailed
development of a manpower planning system suitable for implementation
within the CIL Group (18 man-months). An interim report will be issued
concerning the present training organization, policies capabilities and
needs. It will also cover the manpower data base, needs, supply and
forecasting, as well as computerization. The second stage, which will
follow on from the first, should also last about twelve months and will
consist of (i) implementation of SECL training program (12 man-months) and
(ii) implementation of computerized manpower planning system for CIL (18
man-months). The final report will address the full scope of the work
accomplished.



- 88 -
ANNE 9
Pasp 1 of 2
INDL- _ & iw MI   NID 0A3L (WIflY DIFIW    PMM
CIL FEINAAL SEAMDO
DNCME SMEM1TMS - ODAL INDIA II  1980/81-1985/86
(Rs miLhtoEI)
1980/81  1981/82   1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   1985/86
Coal P
Total Col Produoud (nllUion tons)     100.6    109.1    114.7    121.4    13U.8    134.1
Coal Produe&d by Revenm                97.2    105.3    113.5    119.2    127.7    130.8
Mines (UDL1n tMns)
Net Saleable Coal fron Reuenue         93.7    101.7    109.5    116.4    125.6    128.7
Mines (aili   MM )
Rns
Average Sale Price (Rs per ton)       120.6    139.8    155.8    160.0    188.2    191.1
Net Reerumes                         11,300   14,209   17,063   18,624   23,690   24,594
Salaries andWages                     6,849    7,758    8,42   11,70B   12,620   13,321
Ovrhebls                               537       597       753      940       887    1,083
Stores                                1,508    1,996    2,603    3,015    3,336    3,8EI
Power                                   534      745       964    1,187    1,437      1,706
Transportionlm of Coal and Sand        296       420      462       452      503       542
Other Costs less Misc. peceipts al      549      622       917    1,178    1,8B5    2,853
Total Operating Expenses            7-0Z73   12,138   14,240   18,480   20,668   23,306
Depreciation                            ,a6      951    1,344    1,716    2,069    2,497
Interest                                626      778    1,110    1,324    1,733    2,158
Total Productiom Costs               11,637   13,867   16,694   21,520   24,770   27,961
Profit/Loss                            (337)     342       369   (2,896)    (780)  (3,367)
a,' Tnels PFi/Aoss o Soft arx Hard Coke and Washed Coml opealoio  ard also adjusbt for
overburden Peamwal Coat.



- 89 -
ANa 9
Pasp 2 of 2
SlIAM EAlANCE MFEMS - 0WAL INDIA JID. 1980/81 - 1985/86
(Rs Millon, aoE Mard  31)
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86
Assts
Current Assets                       6,430    8,292    10,383   14,52    15,205   15,254
TomIw and AMvamn                     4,272    4,641    5,431    7,147    7,913    7,363
Net Fi2ed Aseta                     10,665   14,177   18,984   24,139   28,693   34,633
Total Assets                        21,367   27,11.0   34,798   45,788   51,811   57,250
T4Ablitifi
Crnent Liabities                     5,871    6,072   6,862    11,8S4   11,611   12,382
(a) Debts to GDeVnenMc              12,577   14,836    17,462   19,273   21,737   25,2B4
(b) Otber LiailLities to Gbvernmet b/   518     717     _931    3,137    3,430    3,883
Total LLng TenA Liabi1tites         13,095   15,553   18,393   22,410   25.167   41,549
(a) Share Capital                    9,862   12,869   16,913   21,299   25,567   30,123
(b) Rserue                             385      733    1,049       -      1,625      519
(e) Aowulated Profit/Loss           (7,846)  (8,117)  (8,419)  (9,765) (12,159) (14,941)
Total Equity                         2,401    5,485    9,543   11,534   15,034   15,701
Total EqUity anid Liabilities       21,367   27,110   34,798   45,788   51,811   57,250
-    - -m
a/' Including cagital wcd1rpQrso
bI  Overdue oipital Iepay.nt and interest cn Government ioans
Source: CIL.



- 90 -
ANNEX 10
I}DIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SCOPE OF WORK FOR ASSISTANCE ON TRAINING INSTITUTE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
A.   OBJECTIVE
To assist the CIL Group in finalizing -be design and implementing
excavation training centres at Korba and Raniganj.
B.   SCOPE OF WORK
(c) Excavation Training Centers
Aasistance in this aspect will include assessment of
justification for the establishment of the three proposed centers in
(Korba and Raniganj) consultation with the relevant CIL Group personnel
(training, planning, production, and maintenance). Based on this
assessment, the consultants should design in detail the centers, giving
particular attention to:
1.   The projected capacity of the center for each specialty to be
imparted. This comprise classrooms, workshops, laboratories and
yards, including size and number of working places, schedule of
accommodation, and number of instructors needed. A detailed
layout of the center will be prepared and will be the base for
the architectural and civil engineering design.
2.   A detailed list of equipment with its specifications will be
prepared including estimated cost per item (including the
supplementary equipment to be provided to the BETI-Korba). The
list would also include teaching materials and visual aids.
3.   The above-mentioned aspects will be based on a thorough job
analysis of the various kinds of jobs being performed in open
cast coal mines in India, leading to detailed job descriptions
for the different kinds of operators and maintenance personnel.
Based on this draft, course contents will be produced by the
consultant in collaboration with local instructors.
C.   DURATION AND REPORTS
The work, which should be initiated by December 31, 1987 and
completed by December 31, 1990 will require about 18 man-months work by
consultants with experience of developing and running mining training
centres. The first stage, which will involve 6 man-month effort, will be a
review to recommend improvements in the design of the training institutes
as presently envisaged. The second phase will involve assistance in the
implementation and organization of the centres. An interim report will be
prepared at the end of the first phase and a final report will be prepared
on completion of the asfAgnment.



-91-                       ANNEXI I
Page I of 3
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
RVSETTLEMgNT ARRANGEMENTS
A.   Gevra
The project at Gevra involves the expansion of an existing mine
and land acquisition is well advanced with about 85Z (2,956 ha lan-'^ having
been acquired so far out of a total of 3,500 ha. Compensation has been
agreed with the families according to Government norms and Rs 31.7 million
had been paid as of March 1986. More than half of the families involved
(500 out of 995) have already been resettled. Each household receives 150
m2 as per GOI norms. Basic amenities being provided include approach road
and drainage system, school building, drinking water sources, shopping
center, health center, street lighting and power supply (the latter two
facilities through the local Electricity Board).
To the extent that the project needs to employ local people,
preference is given to members of resettled families. So far at least one
job has been provided to over 80% of the families being resettled (818 jobs
for 995 families). Wages with the coal industry are over Rs 80 per day,
three to four times earnings in agricultural or other unskilled
employment. Indirect employment is also being generated Luy the large scale
development and construction work associated wi.Lh the Gevra project. The
mining activities are also generating other small scale ancilliary
industries in the coalfield area which also offer employment potential for
the reaettled families. SECL is encouraging local self employed cottage
industries and farming and has established market complexes in tne colonies
so that sellers can directly sell their products which will enable them to
realize higher prices than if they sell them to traders which is the usual
practice.
The remaining 495 families at Gevra will be resettled by March
1991. At the same time, 375 families will be resettled from the Dipka mine
which is being developed adjacent to the Gevra mine. The families will be
resettled in two phases according to the following schedule:- first phase
of 364 families to be completed by March 1988 and second phase of 506
families to be completed by March 1991.
B.   Sonepur-Bazari
Land acquisition is at an early stage at Sonepur-Bazari with
about 13% (157 ha/1205 ha) having been acquired so far and no resettlement
having taken place. During the life of the project about 740 families will
need to be resettled. About one third of the land to be acquired is
cultivable, much of the rest being so-called -danga land which is barren
and uncultivable. For the remainder it is estimated by ECL that the annual
earnings per hectare of cultivable land is about Rs 2,000 about one tenth
of the annual earnings of a coal miner (about Rs. 20,000 per year). It is
estimated that 40-50% of the families involved in resettlement presently
are directly or indirectly dependent on coal mining activities in the
region.



- 92 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
During the first phase of land acquisition about 270 families
will need to be resettled. As with Gevra, compensation is based on
government norms and the villages will be given the similar basic amenities
(approach road, drainage system, school building, drinking water sources,
shopping center, health center, community center and playground) most of
which are not available in the villages where the people presently live.
ECL will help the state government in providing suitable training
facilities for the affected population, in consultation with and as per the
guidelines of the state government, so as to make them suitable for
possible future employment in the project or elsewhere if oppirtunities
arise. ECL will also help in developing small scale industry ancilliary to
the mining project. These include enterprises to make the following
supplies needed by ECL's operations (a) coal tub wheels and axles; (b)
brattice cloth (fireproof); (c) water bottles; (d) dognails and fish
plates; (e) bolts and nuts of various sizes; (f) safety boots and shoes and
(g) building brick-. A report prepared by outside consultants has
indicated that such activities could provide employment for up to 300
persons in the areas around the Sonepur-Bazari project--although the major
share would be brick making which is a seasonal industry. In addition, ECL
has other mines and new projects in the surrounding area which might be a
source of employment for resettled persons.
Other employment opportunities for resettled people include
construction activities at the project which are likely to require 350-400
persons per day for the next seven to eight years and cottage industries
spawned by the project. The latter include poultry farming, animal
hu;bandry and dairy, piggery, pisciculture, shops in the shopping center
and farming in reclaimed/undistributed land owned by ECL. ECL estimate
that about 195,000 man-days of self employment could be available annually
from such activities (including project construction 75,000, brick making
30,000, township 30,000, ancilliary industries 30,000, forestry related
20,000 and small contracts 10,000). ECL estimate the earnings from such
employment would more than compensate for the foregone annual earnings from
the land lost from cultivation (which would be about Re 900,000 per year
i.e. 450 ha times Rs 2,000 per ha per year). ECL are aware that small
units will require assistance in raising initial capital investments and
working capital. ECL propose to work with the appropriate authorities of
the state government to establish sources of finance for small units
possibly including state government guarantees to commercial institutions.
ECL also recognize that such small units, especially engineering and
manufacturing units, will require necessary technical capabilities and are
prepared to consider providing suitable training for such entrepreneurs on
a limited scale.



- 93 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
The timetable for resettlement at Sonepur-Bazari is as follows:
So epur-Uszari-Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Land acquisition for resettlement -  complete by December 1988
Land development                   -  complete by March 1989
Construct basic facilities         -  complete by March 1990
Phase I resettlement               -  430 families by December 1990
Phase II resettlement              -  310 families by December 1993
Total                               740 famdlies
Conduct training program           -  December 1987 - December 1990



--..94 -                                     ANNE   12
IA -CAL KM= A. COAL QaLlPl DW UO   W  n Cr
PROJUC KNONCO OWGAPZZAntIO
.Z M-o
Project Qm"a MInage
I~~~~~~~~~~F-t PvO*c: r- .
Engineeringnmftratfc                                              too
Coat & Scebduling 
D9Peput oject   ngr
Finance  Procurmu              Projicg          Infeftutr                 A P isroje t    Panni n
tREraNtzwtom  Project SoperSupeviaio
|Purchang        l          i ne          Cal>< manding   C      xcvt lo    |    11ing 
.  rinn              Tou4 a     1 e      fratuctur           C eoro     I
T - IAT flU
cm n_rlts   
_                        .~~~



nxu - WAL  ;m  A  Wei WT! DaW  mr   nomic?
DWIZEUTrATI[ SC== Mm CiiMM
iAy ml. I I                            I - - ' .I              ..I - 1- I  I  I
nr. | w                                  a m          vi                       am           WmI                      am          9 . |
mi                                       rIT.  I                                  I    I  I  I      _                |     |   | Tl
S.a. alto                                                                                          I 
_u1                                                              w _
=om inc  0i  w .m
m w                                             _am_  
0:Fm
lIME 11. wl3s                .          LW2          LB          5.50         i.m          m.1        io.aO
Ao=ines . aum
ID Wm                    L31          S1.         Lm 715  L'                             1.11JD       90
nu%DULDATXSUL1 FOR SKIUI-L    KUM
GW | nd |-                                                                                      m      el    l   _
011I  I D1  2 1./
mNo      w                                T-  --T-T-r-
ftm inmncna                                    a                                                                          ir
-s _iin                                                  __ o___w
mm                           _      _.I.
cm Rm=                                  I                        I
tuzi 3g -                                  -m          1. -                     4.15         1.5         1_5          m.D.
o m _|   hiu.   |        em is.7 O.ul I
*icmn   mna   .          V3-ii
MM                                                                                       1.5         1-           1.    dqS
ff.-



- 96 -
AM=nE 14
INDIA - COAL MININC ND COAL QUALITY DIPROVEMENT PROJECT
EQUIJMENT COST ESTDI&TES
(Rs million)
Itm                Quantity    Unit Price a/    Base Cost
Gevra
Electric Rope Shovel 10.3         4            30.9            123.6
Electric Rope Shovel 4.60         8             7.5             60.0
Hydraullc Shovel 2.5-3.2R3         3            7.0             21.0
Hydraulic Shovel 2.5-3.203
with Backhoe                   2             7.0             14.0
Dozer 400 HP                      10            5.2             52.^
Dozer 300 HP                      21            3.1             65.1
IBH Drill 250 -                   8             9.3             74.4
RBR  Drill 150-160 an              8            3.3             26.4
Dumper 85t                        12            5.1             61.2
Dumper 120t                       22           13.3            292.6
Coalhauler/Duapers 35t            75            2.5            187.5
Scraper 11.5.3                     5            3.1             15.5
Grader 200-250 HP                 6             1.3             18.0
Water Sprinkler                    5            3.0             15.0
Training Center                    1           37.5             37.5
Workshop                           1          116.6            116.6
CHP                               1           466.0            466.0
Other Local Equipment            Lot                           226.3
Subtotal                                                  1,872.7
Spares                                                         187.0
Total                                                     2,059.7
Sonepur-Bazari
Dragline 24/88                     1          234.0            234.0
Electric Rope Shovel 10m3         7            30.9            216.3
Hydraulic Shovel 2.5-3.203         5            7.0             35.0
Dozer 400 HP                      10            5.2             52.0
Dozer 300 HP                      2             3.1              6.2
RRR Drill 250 om                  6             9.3             55.8
Dumper 120t                      35            13.3            465.5
Dumper 35t                        13            2.6             33.8
Coalhauler 32-40t                20             2.5             50.0
Scraper 11.5.3                    1             3.1              3.1
Grader 200-250                    4             3.0             12.0
Hater Sprinkler                   4             3.0             12.0
Workshop                           1          324.6            324.6
Training Center                    1           37.5             37.5
CHP                                1          109.5            109.5
Other Local Equlpnt             Lot                           176.5
Subtotal
Spares                                                         182.0
Total                                                     2,005.8
a/ For foreign equipment, unit price - CIF + Duties + Inland Freight
and Erection; for local equipmnt, unit price - Ex-Works + Taxes +
Inland Freight and Erection.



- 97 -
L5
MU - aLM   aND ML Q   umr PIM
_Tnseer SNE AM tusr WO  k FDO  anm
BId am            i Tder         Tar         Ed E,ulmtlcm
lidUg                             to au  for        lde           Clmlsx           w But          Gmtruet
B Si!sty                 1         Reie           bDe             DbW         for 1eis        Wffctim .
0-1     3     20w! 1043         lbk  15. 1986   be 35. 198  Fb 15.  va    Am 15. 1987 Sept 15. 987
G-2     1      9 l 163          tbyr3 1.991   hJuly 1. 1991 (lt 1191 rIt  1. 1992   Hy 1, 1992
t-3      3      womee  4.frP    Jul 1  198    Sep 1, 199f   be 1c  1988   hly 1. Mg9  Jo  1. I989
0-4    12    Thck SIt           Apr 6, 198    Dee 15, I981  Feb 15. 1q87  Ji  15. 1987 Sp  15. 1987
cIs    11 t  Tac 1f kb[  35. 196 bS              e 15, 1988  Feb 15, 1987   JD  25. 1987  Sept 15  3987
r-6    11       nxk Ilt         rHy 1. 1989    Ad 1. 1989  Oa I. 1399   1w 1, 399D  May 1. 1990
-7      b     killt 25tk        Apr 16, 1986    ee 35. 39 b e  1b  2987 I     Jm  15. 197  Sept 35. 1987
G-B3    5     Ibm   4(H         Apr 16, 1986   bee 15  19386 Feb 15, 197  Jun 15  1987 Sept 1   1987
Gt9     1       ear 4(ow         hy 1.1990   ,Jl 1. 699)  cIt 1. Ifli    1mI, 1993  tHy 1. 1991
C-lu    5     bea  3)09         Ar 16, 1988be 25, 2    Feb 15, 1987   J   15. 1967  Sept 15, 1987
Gil     I    bainhe  Oscw   .5  1. 1987    Ag 1, 39H7  lw 1, 1987    Apr 1. 19B    Jun 1. 396
612     1    ldwxp FPa.    Jun I. 19 u7    A   1, 1917  Nbv 1, 197    Apr 1. 195    Jm  1. 15111
13      I     QauIbdp CiV.
IWok             un 1,1987 I   A   1. 19*    Nos. 1987    Ar1r 1. 1968  J    1, 198W
C1G   I  set     chwtg WEqp  Jul 1, 39117    Sep 1. 1987  Db  1, 3967    my 1.  9W8            1.b 1. 39W
C35   I1t lty Repair Eq. .5l 1. 1987    Sep 1. 1987  bte 1  19817  1hy 1. 1968  Jul 1. lF
Cib   I Et  Fr4he  -         -  .hl 1, 19B7    Sep 1, 1987   bee 1, 1987       hy 1. 19RB  .5l  1, I8
l7  1poet   Electrle         - Ju,l 1, 1987    Sep  1. I9dm   be  3, 3907    thy13  15   ,i  1, 1988
Gin           Elecnutdo   Ptu. Ad 1, Wtl7   Sep 1. 1987   be 3, 1967   thy 1. 19H8  A.  1, 198W
G19  I1t   Hydrsalic Equip  Ju1  , 397    Sr I 1917    ec 1, 1967    thy 1 1998   Jul 1, 19W
(3)     4     Hwel flue n       Ar 1,  987   INy 1, 19R7  Aug 1  19H7    .o  1  1932  Par 1  19WI
;11     6     CGrd  21O-2PW Apr 1, 1917   Hay 1. 1987  A   1. 1987    J1. 1, 19W   N   1. 198.
(22     5     %ftr Splrber  Apr 1. I397    thy 1. 1*1?7  A   1, 987   Ja n  1988   nor 1. 1968
S-I      3  9Inl 1IkP  I         bv   15. 19B6  bEe 35, 1988  Feb 35, 1987    un 15, I987       t5,  1987
5-2      3    S% ,i IOA3        Jun 1, 1989    Ag 1. 1989  lfl  3, 1989    Apr 1, 199D   JLm  1. 1991)
S-3      1      tlize 24/8B   Ibv 15, 18  bDee 35, 198b Apr IS, 1907   Spt 15. D67 Nov 15. 1987
S-4      2    lhel Hyd1         Nlv 35, 198Rb  be  15. 191b Feb 15. 19B7   Jum 15. 1987 Sept 15, 1937
2.3-3.2 .
S-5     18   Tnd     k 1        kS 15,  986   De 15, 198b Feh IS. 1985   Am 15, 1987 Sep  15. 1987
S-0     17    Thitk3Mk          JuZt 1,  99    Ag L, 1989  Nlb  1. 39619    Apr 1. 199t)  Jn 1. IMs
5-7      4    talr  350M     I  Apr 16, 19b   Dbe  15, 1986 Feb 35, 1987  Jun 15, 1987  Sept .5. 19R7
S=-      4    fer 350M      W   Jul 1. 19B9    Sep 1. 3199   beX1 1  199    thy 1. 1990  Jul 1. 19911
S-9      2      l tifel   n,w 1.Apr ,1987    tky 1 1987   Ag 1, 1987    I    1. I19P0  nw 1. 190
S-1u     5   Tttdc 3-4Gt        lbv 15, 196   bec I5, 1966  Feb 35, 19B6  Jun 15, 1987  Sepc 15. 1987
5-11    14    Thdc 32-4lt       .m  1, MT       Ag 3, 199r)  Nws 1, 1990    Apr t1  991   JLr 1, 1991
S-12     3    Drill 75          Apr 16, 1966   be 15, 1906  Feb 15, 1907  J.  15. 1967 SePt 15, 1987
5-13     I    DrilU 25 6m       Ad 1. 1991    Sep 1, IY91   br 13, 1993    ty 1. 1992  .5d  1, 1992
S-14     &    Cluder 2--253W  Apr 1, 1987   thy 1. 197  Aug 1. I987    .   1. 198   lrtt 1 9 I8
S-15     4      -rw Sprinkler  Ar 1. 19R7   thy 1  I37   AM  1, 19B7    .1s 1, 190R   vr 1. 198W
S-b6     1   0m1  HIdllhg    Am 1, 1390        Ag 1. 1968  lbv 1, 1989    Apr 1, 1989   Jl 1, 1939
P-
S-17            unlb 6saer t uD 1, 1987    Ag 1, 1987   NoV 1. 1987    Ar 1, 19B    Jn 1. 1930
S-Ie    I         Ulcitq..ut
Ildetial    Ju 1, 197    Aw 1, I7    kw 13, 197    4r 1. 198   Jul 1. 19S
S-Itb    I   tdadiwL      tral
RleidmntLal     un 13, 1987    A   1. 1987  It, 1, IP37    Apr 1, 198B   Jun 1, 196
5-19     1    Iltt Axkduc
S-19          Filitis           Jum 13  191H    Ag 1  1?87   bm 1, 187    Apr 1, 19B  .Jun 1, 19B8
sY-19b        Cvitl 1           .5. 1. 3987    Ag 1, 1987  Nlv 1. 197    Apr 1, I    .f  1. 190
S-19          Ihddnirg  qup  .51 3, 1987    Sep, 3  1987  be 1. 1987   l'q 1  19             I Jul 1  19B8
5-19d          tw0ne 1p lip   jai 1, 1987    Sep 1. 197   be 1, 1987    NWy 1  19S 3 Jul 1, 1968
S-19e          Iydt  tru Fq   Jul 1. 1987    Sep, IY 1987  bee 1, 397    Hy 1, 198   Jal 1. 19B0
-19f          Body Pop 1            1. 1987    Sep 1. 1987  Dee 1. 987    May 1. 19BS          ,1 1.S9
S-19          Ibbile Rep Equ   .ul 1. 1987    Sep 3. 1987    ee 1, 1987    1.1 , 1968   Jul 1, 19PB
S-19h         lilt EtTdl Equ    Jul 1, 1987    Sqt 1. 1987    e, 1 9 VW7    thy 1. 198   Jul 1 988
S-191         Else Equp         JUtI 1. 196     set 1. 1987  be 1, 3987    Hay 11 19W   .5e  1. 1I9
S-20   I   tl  Ib*p
5-20.         Swvite bAId    J   1. 1987    Ag  1. 1987   Nbs 1. 1987    Apr 3  19WB          a Jt 1  19B8
S-2b          Civil wars        J3 1, 1927    Ag 1. 1987  lbN  1. 1987    Apr 1. 19W   Jun 1,  19W0
S-201         ladddrg Ey.   Ju  1. 1987    Sep 1. 1987   ic 1. 1987    Pay 1. 16   Jt5l 1. 1968
S-2W1         Eigh  Rep Fq   Jul 1. 1987    Sep 1. 1987  n!e 1. 1987    th  1. 1988  Jul 1. 19SB
S-le          Hay Rep Fa        . Jul I  3987    Sep 3. 3987   Dir 1. 1917    rhy 1, 3191   Jul 1. 3938
S-20f         Trum Rip Eip  Jul 1. 3987    Sep 1. 1987  re  1, 1987    tW  I, 1ISB   Jul 1. 395R
5-It          Dear Pqtpr Ep Jai 1. 1987    Sep 1, 1987  Ilew 1, 1987   thy 1. I9             Jl 3. 1998
S-20h         Bdya[id
Stn e lip. J   1, 1987    Sep 1. I7   Dbe 1, 1987    thfy 1. 19W8  Jul 1, 1S0
5-201         Elecla  Equ   .d 1. 1987    Sep 1  1987   De  1  1987   flh 1  ISB   Jl 1  1989
S-Afl          Fesy Eqdp    id 13W87    Sep 1  1987   bee 1, 1987    ty 1. 19B   Jul 1  19W
S-&             thoIle Rep Eqp   Jrl 1. 191     Sep L. 198    Da 1, 1987   NlW  1, hyl      Jul t, 1909
-2M             u               lsm 15, 186   De  I, 1966 hFb 15, 1967   Jun 15, 1987  Sept 15. 1987



- 98 -
ANNEX 16
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR BANK LOAN
(million US$)
(a) Mining Component
Bank                                Quarterly            Cmulative
Fiscal Year            Quarter        Disbursement         Disbursement
1988                   I                 5.0                  5.0
II                0.8                  5.8
III                 1.0                 6.8
IV                5.0                 11.8
1989                    I                5.5                 17.3
II                7.9                 25.2
III                7.8                 33.0
IV                9.6                 42.6
1990                   I                 7.9                 50.5
II                9.9                 60.4
III                 9.4                69.8
IV                9.4                 79.2
1991                    I                9.8                 89.0
II                8.6                 97.6
III                10.7               108.3
IV                8.1                116.4
1992                   I                 9.4                125.8
II                7.8                133.6
III                8.2                141.8
IV                6.8                148.6
1993                    I                7.8                156.4
II                7.2                163.6
III                6.6                170.2
IV                5.2                175.4
1994                   I                 3.2                178.6
II                1.4                180.0
(b) Coking Coal
Disbursements will be at a rate approximately of about US$20
million per quarter, starting in the I quarter of Bank FY1988 tbrouigh the
IV quarter of Bank FY1989.



- 99 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 4
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. Projection Period
1.        The financial projections have been prepared for 1986/87 through
1993/94.
B. Escalation
2.        All projections have been prepared in current terms assuming the
following local inflation rates:
1986/87-1993/94  -  6.0% per year
C. Production Plan
3.        Production plan for the CIL group is in line with the Seventh
Five Year Plan from 1985/86 to 1989/90 and shows steady thereafter:
CIL - Projected Production
(million tons)
l986;s7  1987188  1988/89  1989/90  1990191  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
kdergruxlnd         63.8    67.9    71.9    75.2    76.5    79.1    81.6    84.6
Open-Pit            78.8    90.1    103.4   120.8   131.7   140.7   152.8   164.8
Total             142.6   158.0   175.3   196.0   208.2   219.8   234.4   249.4
D. Investment Program
4.        The investment program to support the above production plan is
projected on the basis of average unit investment costs for open-pit and
underground operations in CIL and investment requirements of existing mines
to sustain current level of production. The investment profile is
presented in the following table:



- 100 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 4
CIL - Annual Investment Program
(Rs million, 1986/87 terms)
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1M9394
9,690    9,750   11,320  12,550   11,850   11,350   11,50   11,3O
E. Coal Prices
5.        Until GOI and CIL complete the preparation of new measures to
improve CIL's financial performance. Since coal prices are presently at
economic efficiency levels, average coal prices have been assumed to remain
constant in real terms and follow the local inflation rate in current
terms.
CIL - Average Coal Price
(Rs/ton - 1986/87 terms)
Fiscal Year          1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 L993/94
With 1986/87 grade mix   235    2D5    205    2D5    205    2D5      205   205
With adjustBd grade mix   205    201    197    191    189    187     185   184
F. Production Costs
Salaries and Wages
6.        Salaries and wages are dependent on production level, output per
manshift (OHS) and earnings per manshift (EMS).
EMS
7.        In CIL, salaries and wages are fixed by the National Coal Wages
Agreement which is renegotiated every four years between the unions and CIL
management. It is assumed that earnings per manshift will remain unchanged
in real terms during the forecast period.
OMS
8.        OMS projections for each subsidiary are based on CIL's
estimates. The projections are shown below.



- 101 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 4
OMS Projections (tons/manshift)
ECL      BCCL        CCL      SECL         NEC
1986/87          0.57       0.64       1.50      1.33        0.86
1987/88          0.64       0.71       1.60      1.50        0.94
1988/89          0.70       0.76       1.72      1.62       0.94
1989/90          0.80       0.82       1.96      1.77        1.02
1990/91          0.85       0.82      2.10       1.80        1.02
1991/92          0.85       0.85       2.15      1.85        1.02
1992/93          0.90       0.90      2.20       1.90        1.02
1993/94          0.90       0.90       2.25      1.95        1.02
9.        Administrative overhead, a major portion of which is
administrative salaries, is assumed to increase at the sane rate as the
salaries and wages.
10.       Stores, power, transportation and other costs are calculated on a
variable cost basis. For each subsidiary, the unit cost for stores, which
includes spares, explosives, timber, diesel fuel, lubricants and other
general consumables, has been slightly increased in real terms and unit
cost of power has been marginally downward adjusted to reflect the
increasing share of open-pit production characterized by higher than
average usage of etores and lower power consumption. All other unit costs
have been assumed to remain constant throughout the projection period.
11.       Depreciation has been calculated using subsidiary-specific
depreciation factor which is derived from data of historical depreciation
as percentage of gross fixed assets to reflect the difference in the nature
of investment in each subsidiary, i.e., underground vs. open-pit project,
greenfield vs. rehabilitation.
12.       Interest expense has been calculated based on the following
average annual interest rates:
Existing long-term loans a/
- planned portion                 10.6%  p.a.
- non-planned portion b/          0.0%  p.a.
New long-term 1== c                    13.75Z p.a.
Short-term loans                       18.0%  p.a.
a/  Loans taken before April 1, 1984.
b/  A subsidy equal to the interest payable is received from the
Government. Hence, neither interest nor subsidy are included in the
financial projections.
c/  Loans taken in 1986/87 and thereafter, which is about 48Z of annual
investment, repaid in 15 years.



- 102 -
ANNEX 17
Page 4 or 4
G.  Income Taxes
13.       Accumulated losses from previous years have been carried
forward. In addition, an investment allowance, up to 40% of the annual
investment, has been assumed in calculating the annual taxable income. A
50Z income tax rate has been applied to the taxable income (if any).
H. Balance Sheet
14.       Current assets have been increased from the base at the same rate
as the growth in total operating expenditures.
15.       Current liabilities have been assumed to follow generally the
same pattern as current assets with exception of the item of 'other current
liabilities" which consists mainly of wages and bonuses payable at the end
of the fiscal year and is assumed to increase at the same rate as salaries
and wages.
16.       Fixed assets have been increased by adding 80Z of the annual
investment to the previous year's balance. This addition is assumed to
include both the direct addition from the annual investment and a transfer
from previous year's capital work-in-progress.  Seventeen percent of the
investment has been asslmed to equal the net increase in capital work-in-
progress and 3% of the investment, the net increase in loan & advances.
17.       Long-term debt outstanding March 31, 1986 for CIL overall
consists of the following loans:
Planned         Rs 20,958 million
Non-planned     Rs  4,326 million
Total       Rs 25,284 million



- 103 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PRO FORML FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR COAL INDIA LTD
INCOME STATEMENT 1986/87 TO 1993/94
(in Rs million)
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92,':3   93/94
COAL PRODUCTION (MILLION TONS)
UG PRODUCTION               63.8    67.9    71.9    75.2    ?6.5    79.1    81.6    84.6
OP PRODUCTION               78.8    90.1   103.4   120.8   131.7   140.7   152.8   164.8
TOTAL PROD-UCTION          142.6   158.0   175.3   196.0   208.2   219.8   234.4   249.4
SALEABLE PRODUCTION       136.7   151.2   166.8   187.1   198.2   209.3   223.2   237.5
-EVENUES
AVERAGE PRICE, RS/TON        205     212      221     228      249      264     280      296
SALES REVENUES            27953   32077   36813   42737   49428   55284   62382   70172
OTHER REVENUES                41      44       47       50      53       56      59       62
TOTAL REVENUES            27994   32121   36860   42787   49481   55340   62441   70234
PRODUCTION COSTS
SALARIES & WAGES          14103   15056   16191   17338   18740   20181   22000   24171
OVERHEAD                    1128    1205    1298    1389    1501    1620    1778    1964
STORES                     4158    4865    5678    6746    7592    8500    9638   10891
POWER                      2020    2373    2778    3272    3651    4083    4592    5151
TRANSPORTATION               797     927    1084    1280    1427    1593    1796    2020
OTHER COSTS                 2822    3413    3915    4538    5043    5576    6238    6956
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS    25027   27840   30944   34563   37954   41553   46041   51154
DEPRECIATION               2890    3414    4054    4764    5466    6210    6999    7835
INTEREST                   2479    2892    3329    3935    4600    5144    5686    6222
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS   30396   34146   38327   43262   48020   52907   58726   65211
PROFIT BEFORE TAX         -2402   -2025   -1466    -474    1462    2433    3716    5023
NET INCOME                 -2402   -2025   -1466    -474    1462    2433    3716    4761
--_ -_ -_ -__                      _         _ _    __



- 104 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
BALANCE SHEET 1986/87 TO 1993/94
"in Rs million)
(As of Narch 31)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
ASSETS
CURRENT ASbZTS
CASH & BANK BALANCES    1300    1463    1644    1858    2065    2277    2529    2811
COAL STOCK               4950    5569    6260    7076    7862    8669    9631   10702
STORES & SPARES          4450    5207    6078    7220    8126    9098   10316   11658
SUNDRY DEBTORS           4200    4726    5312    6004    6671    7356    8171    9081
OTHER                    1470    1654    1859    2101    2335    2575    2860    3178
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS   16370   18619   21153   24259   27058   29974   33507   37429
GROSS FIXED ASSETS        48809   57800   69515   82768   95229  108441  12,-53  137304
less ACCUMULATED DEPREC  16987   20411   24503   29317   34813   41056   48089   55961
NET FIXED ASSETS          31822   37389   45012   53451   60416   67386   74364   81344
CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRES   9310   10343   11690   13213   14646   16164   17775   19482
LOANS & ADVANCES           7653    796'    8367    8824    9254    9710   10193   10705
TOTAL ASSETS              65155   74315   86222   99747  111374  123234  135839  148959
LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
SUNDRY CREDITORS         3900    4388    4932    5575    6194    6830    7588    8432
ROYALTIES, CESS, ETC.   1020    1148    1290    1458    1620    1786    1984    2205
OTHER CURRENT LIAB.      7200    8101    9106   10292   11435   12610   1400.   15567
SHORT TERM DEBT           900      989    1091    1205    1305    1419    1559    1712
TOTAL CURRENT LIAB.    13020   14626   16419   18529   20554   22645   25139   27916
LONG TERM DEBT            27829   30573   34538   38939   42476   45968   49413   52803
OTHER LIABILITIES          3600    2880    2160    1440       720        0       0        0
TOTAL LIABILITIES         44449   48079   53118   58908   63751   68613   74552   80720
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
PAID-IN-CAPITAL           37531   45085   53421   61630   66951   71516   74466   76658
RETAINED EARNINGS        -16825  -18850  -20316  -20790  -19328  -16895  -13179   -8418
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY      20706   26235   33105   40840   47623   54621   61287   68240
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY   65155   74315   86222   99747  111374  123234  135839  148959
-_    -_    -                                     



- 105 -
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 1986/87 TO 1993/94
(in Rs million)
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
SOURCES
NET INCOME                -2402   -2025   -1466    -474    1462    2433    3716    4761
DEPRECIATION               2900    3425    4092    4814    5496    6242    7u33    7872
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH         498    1400    2625    4340    6958    8676   10749   12633
NEW EQUITY CAPITAL         7408    7554    8336    8209    5321    4565    2951    2192
LONG TERM LOANS            4845    5168    6733    7616    7162    7593    8053    8535
TOTAJ. SOURCES            12751   14121   17694   20165   19441   20833   21752   23360
APPLICATIONS
INVESTMENT                 9690   10335   13466   15233   14324   15186   16106   17070
DEBT REPAYMENT             2300    2423    2768    3216    3624    4102    4608    5145
INCREASE IN WORKING CAP.   478       643     741      996     774      826    1039    1145
DECREASE IN OTHER LIABL    283       720     720      720     720      720       0        0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS        12751   14121   17694   20165   19441   20833   21752   23360
RATIOS
CURRENT RATIO              1.26    1.27    1.29    1.31    1.22    1.32    1.33    1.34
LONG TERN DEBT/            0.57    0.54    0.51    0.49    0.47    0.46    0.45    0.44
EqUITY L   0.43    0.46    0.49    0.51    0.53    0.54    0.55    0.56
LONG TERN DEBT SERVICE    0.58    0.71    0.87    1.05    1.30    1.39    1.61    1.67



-106-                        ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MEDIUM TERM EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (1986-1990)
AND PERFORMANCE TARGETS
In December 1986 CIL issued a Medium Term Coal Efficiency
Improvement Program (the Efficiency Program) to cover the period 1985/86 to
1989/90. The contents of the Efficiency Program include (i) enumeration of
specific priority actions to be implemented in the subsidiary companies to
increase coal production, reduce costs and improve productivity; (ii)
evaluation of the effects of such measures in terms of their physical
impact on production terms; and (iii) assessment of the impact of the
Efficiency Program on CIL's financial viability.
The Efficiency Program draws upon CIL's Action Plan for 1986/87
as well as a draft CIL Five Year Corporate Plan covering the period 1985-90
which CIL had previously prepared. The Efficiency Program is based on a
mine by mine production analysis which targets an increase from 134 million
in 1985/86 to 196 million tons in 1989/90 as shown below:
CIL - Production Target 1985/86 - 1987/Sq
(Million tons, raw coal)
1985/86   1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
(Actual)
Existing mines         77.43     74.00       76.64       62.37      58.74
Sanctioned mines       56.68     68.60       89.32      104.33      119.66
New mines to be
sanctioned              -         -          1.04        8.80      17.60
134.11    142.60      158.00      175.50     196.00
Production
Of the present production of 143 million tonnes (1986-87), the
underground mines account for 45% and the rest comes from opencast
projects. In the increased production of 53 million tonnes envisaged by
1989-90, 75% would be contributed by opencast mines. By 1989-90 the share
of opencast mines to total production would be 61%. The predominance of
fixed cost element over the variable costs in capital intensive projects
(fixed 80%, variable 20Z) has necessitated CIL to pursue economies of scale
through planning and implementation high capacity mining projects. The



- 107 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 5
common size of a mechanized opencast m3lxe which used to be 1-2 m.tonnes per
annum is being progressively increased to 10-14 m.tonnes per annum.
Examples of such big projects are Mukunda (12 m.tonnes), Jayant (10
m.tonnes), Rajmahal (10 m.tonnes), Nigahi (14 m.t.) Dudichua (10 m.t.).
Planning of high capacity projects is not confined to opencast mining
alone. Underground mines like Jhanjra (3.5 m.tonnes) and Pootkee Ballihari
(3 m.tonnes) are also under implementation. In planning and implementing
high capacity projects the induction of technological expertise and
equipment and machinery from a number of foreign countries is being pursued
actively. Some of the countries from whom such assistance is being
obtained are USSR, West Germany, UK, France, Poland and Canada. Many of
these projects are being entrusted on a turnkey basis with adequate
performance guarantees.
Productivity
Productivity improvements are designed to increase the output per
manshift (OHS) of both underground and open-pit mines. In the area of
mechanization in existing underground mines, the technology of
powered-support longwall mining would be extended.  As against six longwall
faces working in 1985-86, 23 would be working by 1989-90. Medium level
mechanization has been introduced with side discharge loaders and load
control dumpers in bord and pillar mines. The possibility of introduction
of continuous mining and shuttle cars in bord and pillars mines with roof
bolting is being investigated. The need for mechanizing transport of men
and material in underground mines has been recognized and would find
introduction during the Seventh Plan period. Other special methods of
mining like Blasting Gallery method and Hydraulic Mining and Descending
Shield method are also being adonted. Besides mechanization, a number of
system improvement and managerial measures are being adopted. These
include "all men all iob systems- in mechanized mines, better amenities
(such as housing, recreational, water supply facilities) to reduce
absenteism and a system approach in mechanizing coal evacuation, face
ventilation etc. Based on these measures CIL is targetting the following
progressive increase in OMS for each subsidiary:
CIL - Output Per Manshift Target 1987/88 - 1989/90
(tons per manshift)
Company                                             OMS
1987-88    1988-89    1989-90
Eastern Coalfields Ltd.                  0.64       0.70        0.80
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.                  0.71       0.76        0.82
Central Coalfields Ltd.                  1.16        1.16       1.26
Northern Coalfields Ltd.                 8.02       8.50        8.60
Western Coalfields Ltd.                  1.17        1.30       1.43
South Eastern Coalfields Ltd.            1.63        1.83       1.94
North Eastern Coalfields                 0.94       0.94        1.02
Coal India Ltd.                     1.07       1.17        1.28



- 108 -
ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 5
Manpower Planning
The existence of a substantial surplus labour force in some of
the coal mines has been well recognized. Concerted efforts are afoot to
contain and reduce the labour force through a package of measures. The
broad contours of the strategy are as follows: (a) control over fresh
recruitment; (b) preparation of manpower budgets; (c) introduction of
multi-scale workforce; td) training and re-orientation of workforce; (e)
reorganization of uneconomic mines; (f) re-deployment of surplus workforce;
and (g) voluntary retirement scheme. One of the important steps taken to
control fresh recruitment has beel. the abolition of the system of providing
jobs to land losers in the coal projects. Following the recommendations of
the Chari Committee on Eastern Coalfields Ltd., measures are afoot to
rationalize the labour force in the identified uneconomic mines and deploy
the surplus labour force elsewhere. A voluntary retirement scheme is also
under formulation. As a result of the various measures enumerated above it
is expected that the net addition to the labour force would be about 21000
only by 1989/90 as shown in the following table:
CIL - Manpower Targets 1987-1990
Company                               Manpower as on 1st April
1987       1988       1989        1990
Eastern Coalfields Ltd.            1,88,500   1,88,500   1,88,500   1,88,500
Bhrat Coking Coal Ltd.             1,71,000   1,71,000   1,71,000   1,71,000
Central Coalfields Ltd.            1,05,000   1,03,300   1,02,400   1,00,400
Western Coalfields Ltd.              80,249     82,000      82,600     82,600
South Eastzern Coalfields Ltd.     1,05,200   1,07,700   1,14,000   1,20,500
Northern Coalfields Ltd.             11,000     14,000      17,000     19,100
North Eastern Coalfields              5,426      5,400       5,500      5,600
Central Mine P1- ing &
Design Institute.'Coal               5,096      5,200       5,500      5,900
India Ltd. Office/
Dankuni Coal Complex
Total:                    6,71,471   6,76,400   6,86,500   6,93,600
Equipment Availability and Utilization
Increasing introduction of machine' y and equipment in underground
mining and the key role which equipment and machinery play in opencast
mining call for strict adherance to international standards in their
availability and utilization. It has been estimated that in the
development of a large sized opencast project, plant and machinery account
for 64-78% of the project cost. A multi-pronged strategy covering the
whole gamut of activitiea from equipment selection to their efficient
operation on field has been drawn up by Coal India. The strategy consists



- 109 -
ANNEX 19
Page 4 of 5
of (a) equipment selection; (b) equipment standardization; (c) equipment
operation and training; (d) equipment maintenance (including spare parts
management, spares depots, service centres, rehabilitation of idle
equipment, high technology electrical inspection and workshop facilities);
(e) computerized information system; and (f) other measures (including
operating procedures, pit lighting, optimal drilling and blasting and
_mplementing the results of the METCHEM study).
Material Management
The objectives of CIL in the area of materials management could
be broadly classified as follows: (a) material demand and compatibility in
keeping with end-user work stations; (b) integration of quality, quantity
and price of materials to meet the projected demand efficiently with due
regard to inventory holding norms and availability fluctuations; (c)
minimization of down time of production equipment and project
implementation delays by obviating stock outs; and Cd) ensure optimum
inventory levels. To achieve the above objectives a series of steps have
been taken. These include streamlining the purchase, procedures, vendor
rating, computerization, opening of spare parts depots, training of
executives, increasing the number of warehousing stations at carefully
identified locations, disposal of obsolete items and evolution of optimum
inventory levels.
Communication and Comouterized Management Information System
One of the felt requirements for efficient management of the coal
sector is the availability of a speedy and reliable communication network
linking the mines, the areas, the headquarters of the companies and Coal
India Office in Calcutta. Towards this end a communication facility called
Coalnet  is under implementation.  This network would be based on
satellite communication. Under phase I of this satellite communication
program 10 stations would be linked with each other and would have speech
and data communication facilities. Under phase II, 9 more stations would
be linked. Both these phases are expected to be completed by 1989-90.
Managerial Climate
Several steps have been taken to improve the managerial climate
in the coal industry. Some of these steps are: (a) drawing up
organization charts identifying responsibility and accountability;
(b) adequate delegation of financial and administative powers; (c) master
plan for reorientation training utilizing institutions in the country and
bilaterial assistance for training in new technologies being imported;
(d) more stress on participative management to improve industrial climate;
and (f) introducing systems for recognition of good work and penalties for
failures.
Labour Participation
The Joint Bipartite Committee of the Coal Industry has been fully
activised and regular consultations are taking place between the management



- no -
ANNEX 19
Page 5 of 5
of the coal companies and representative of the labour. Production,
productivity, absenteeism, rationalization and redeployment of manpower,
cost consciousness and welfare measures form the subject matters of these
deliberations. To secure active labour participation in achieving the
corporate goals, six committees have been constituted with representatives
of labour. These committees cover subject areas like planning and
training, safety and environment, investments and costs, and welfare. In
addition, coal companies have revived the three-tier forums for workers'
participation in management. These tiers are the colliery, the area and
the corporate office.
Studies
A number of studies have been commissioned by CIL to go into
diverse aspects of coal production. These studies range from technical
aspects of coal mining to optimization of transportation, managerial
innovations and overall improvement of the working of specific subsidiary
companies. The following studies have thus been commissioned:
- Management practices in Moonidih mine and Planning, design and
management of the fully designed Pootkee-Bulliary underground mine.
- Transportation of sand to Jharia coalfield from Maithon and
Durgapur.
- Study on operational Budgetary control systems in Coal India Ltd.
- Study on Equipment Efficiency and Equipment Maintenance.
- Study on Haulroad Construction and Maintenance.
- Study on Blasting design and Practice.
- Study on Project Implementation Manual.
- RITES Study on Coal Transportation.
- Chari Committee to examine the working of ECL.
- Banerjee Committee to examine the working of BCCL.
- Study of CIL and its subsidiaries.
Industry Department
March 1987



- iii -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PRO FORMA INCOME STATEMENTS FOR CIL SUBSITIARIES 1986/87 TO 1993/94
EASTERN COALFIELDS LIMITED - INCOME STATEMENT
(in m8 illion)
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
COAL PRODUCTION (MILLION TONS)
UC PRODUCTION              17.0    18.0    19.0    20.0    20.5    21.0    21.5    22.0
OP PRODUCTION               8.2      9.4    12.0    14.8    15.0    16.0    17.0    18.0
TOTAL PRODUCTION           25.2    27.4    31.0    34.8    35.5    37.0    38.5    40.0
SALEABLE PRODUCTION        23.8    25.9    29.3    32.9    33.5    35.0    36.4    37.8
REVENUES
AVERAGE PRICE, RS/TON       266      276     287      298     326      346     367      389
SALES REVENUES             6335    7155    8408    9798   10945   12094   13346   14697
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CPRA      -730    -776    -577    -442    -493    -482    -471    -414
TOTAL REVENUES             7065    7930    8985   10240   11438   12576   13817   15111
PRODUCTION COSTS
SALARIES & WAGES           4199    4451    4720    5001    5299    5618    5958    6315
OVERHEAD                    235      249     264      280     297      314     333      353
STORES & SPARES             573      660     792      942    1019    1126    1242    1368
POWER                       430      496     595      707     764      845     932    1027
TRANSPORTATION              232      267     321      382     412      45L     503      554
OTHER COSTS                 708      853    1011    119^    1280    1405    1541    1688
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS      6377    6976    7702    8503    9072    9764   10511   11305
DEPRECIATION                626      738     887    1044    1211    1388    1576    1775
INTEREST                    516      600     690     814      948    1059    1168    1277
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS    7519    8315    9279   10360   11231   12211   13255   14357
PROFIT BEFORE TAX          -455    -385    -294    -120       207      365     562     754
NET INCOME                 -455    -385    -294    -120       207      365     562      754
-_    -_            -       -      -                 -_    -_



- 112 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 5
SOUTH EASTERN COALFIELDS LIMITED - INCOME STATEMENT
(in Rs million)
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
COAL PRODUCTION (MILLION TONS)
UC PRODUCTION              26.6    28.7    30.0    31.0    31.0    31.5    32.0    33.0
OP PRODUCTION              27.9    34.0    40.5    49.0    55.0    60.0    65.0    70.0
- - _       _     _  _   _                                 ------
TOTAL PRODUCTION           54.5    62.7    70.5    80.0    86.0    91.5    97.0   103.0
SALEABLE PRODUCTION        52.3    60.2    67.7    77.3    82.6    87.8    93.1    98.9
REVENUES
AVERAGE PRICE, RS/TON       187      194     201      209     229      243     257      273
SALES REVENUES             9748   11661   13620   16144   18885   21302   23950   26955
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CPRA      1599    2096    2344    2645    2753    3050    3392    3609
TOTAL REVENUES             8148    9565   11276   13498   16132   18253   20558   23346
PRODUCTION COSTS
SALARIES & WAGES           3817    4127    4548    5001    5636    6129    6608    7406
OVERHEAD                    291      315     347      381     430      467     504      565
STORES & SPARES            1524    1860    2218    2684    3038    3427    3853    4336
POWER                       717      875    1044    1263    1429    1612    1813    2040
TRANSPORTATION              183      223     266      322     365      412     463      521
OTHER COSTS                 690      817     964    1157    1316    1476    1651    1847
- - _                       _   _    _       _
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS      7222    8217    9387   10808   12214   13523   14891   16714
DEPRECIATION                980    1157    1351    1565    1783    2014    2260    2520
INTEREST                    753      880    1014    1200    1406    1573    1739    1903
                                         _   _ _   _ _  _-    -
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS    8954   10254   11752   13573   15402   17110   18889   21137
PROFIT BEFORE TAX          -806    -689    -476       -75     730    1142    1669    2209
NET INCOME                 -806    -689    -476       -75     730    1142    1669    1947



- 113 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 5
BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED - INCOME STkTENENT
(in Rs million)
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
COAL PRODUCTION (MILLION TONS)
UC PRODUCTION              14.9    15.4    16.0    16.5    17.0    17.5    18.0    17.0
OP PRODUCTION               8.6    10.1    11.3    13.0    14.0    15.0    16.0    14.0
TOTAL PRODUCTION           23.5    25.5    27.3    28.5    29.5    31.0    32.5    34.0
SALEABLE PRODUCTION        21.8    24.0    25.7    26.8    27.7    29.1    30.6    32.0
REVENUES
AVERAGE PRICE, RS/TON       220      229     237      246     270      286     303      322
SALES REVENUES             4793    5478    6092    6602    7482    8336    9269   10277
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CPRA    -1646   -1635   -1858   -2281   -2463   -2652   -3023   -3347
TOTAL REVENUES             6438    7113    7950    8883    9945   10988   12292   13625
PRODUCTION COSTS
SALARIES & WAGES           3552    3765    3992    4230    4483    4800    5292    5770
OVERHEAD                    297      315     334      354     375      401     443     482
STORES & SPARES             673      785     891      986    1081    1205    1339    1485
POWER                       520      606     689      762     835      931    1035    1147
TRANSPORTATION              166      194     220      243     267      297     330      366
OTHER COSTS                 634      626     690      744     804      879     961    1064
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS      5842    6291    6816    7319    7845    8513    9401   10315
DEPRECIATION                452      513     623      748     847      952    1063    1181
INTEREST                    627      731     840      991    1157    1294    1431    1565
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS    6921    7534    8278    9059    985)   10760   11894   13061
PROFIT BEFORE TAX          -483    -422    -329    -176        95      229     397     563
NET INCOME                 -483    -422    -329    -176        95      229     397     563
--                  --            _-                         -__ ___



- 114 -
ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 5
CENTRAL COALFIELDS LIMITED - INCONE STATEMENT
(in Rs million)
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
COAL PRODUCTION (MILLION TONS)
UC PRODUCTION              4.9      5.4     6.4     7.2     8.0      9.0    10.0   11.0
OP PRODUCTION             33.5    36.0    39.0    44.4    48.0    50.0    55.0   60.0
  _            _    _ _   _                            ------
TOTAL PRODUCTION          38.4    41.4    45.4    51.6    56.0    59.0    65.0    71.0
SALEABLE PRODUCTION       37.8    40.2    43.1    49.0    53.2    56.1    61.8    67.5
REVENUES
AVERAGE PRICE, RS/TON      177      184     191     199     218      231     245     259
SALES REVENUES            6710    7400    8256    9740   11575   12930   15107   17490
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CPRA      745     309       91     114     233     127      158     231
TOTAL REVENUES            5965    7091    8165    9627   11342   12802   14948   17259
PRODUCTION COSTS
SALARIES & WAGES          2416    2587    2797    2964    3171    3459    3943   4469
OVERHEAD                   299     320      346     367     392     428     488      553
STORES & SPARES           1354    1524    1735    2090    2403    2685    3137    3631
POWER                      338     380      433     522     600     670     783      907
TRANSPORTATION             216     243      277     333     383     428     500      579
OTHER COSTS                667     976    1086    1272    1441    1584    1821    2078
----_            __               ____ ------     _  _
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS     5290    6030    6674    7547    8391    9254   10671   12218
DEPRECIATION               801     970    1145    1341    1542    1756    1983    2223
INTEREST                   560     654      753     892    1044    1168    1292    1415
-----                                    ____     __   _
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS    665;    7655    8573    9780   10977   12178   13946   15855
PROFIT BEFORE TAX         -685    -563    -408    -153      366     624    1003    1403
NET INCOME                -685    -563    -408    -153      366     624    1003    1403
-         -        -_    -        -        -_    -__



- 115 -
ANNEX 20
Page 5 of 5
NORTHEASTERN COALFIELDS LIMITED - INCOME STATEMENT
(in Re million)
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
COAL PRODUCTION (MILLION TONS)
UC___ PRODUCTION            0.4_0._0.5_.5
UC PRODUCTION              0.4     0.4     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.6     0.6     0.6
OP PRODUCTION              0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.7     0.7     0.8     0.8
TAP UI.   1.0__   _____  --.1--   1.2---   1.3_   1.4__   1.4__
TOTAL PRODUCTION           1.0     1.0     1.1     1.1      1.2     1.3     1.4     1.4
SALEABLE PRODUCTION        1.0     1.0     1.1     1.1      1.2     1.3     1.4     1.4
REVENUES
AVERAGE PRICE, RS/TON      376     390     405     421      461     489     518    549
SALES REVENUES             368     382     437     454      542     622     711     753
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CPRA       32       5      -1      -36     -30     -43     -56     -78
TOTAL REVENUES             336     378     438     490      571     665     767     831
PRODUCTION COSTS
_________ ______
SALARIES & WAGES           119     126     134     142      152     175     199     211
OVERHEAD                     6       6       7        7       8       9      10      11
STORES & SPARES             34      36      41      44      51       58      67      71
POWER                       15      15      18      19      22       25      29      31
TRANSPORTATION               0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
OTHER COSTS                123     141     164     174      201     231     264     279
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS      296     325     364     386     433     498      568    602
DEPRECIATION                30      36      48      66      82       99     118     137
INTEREST                    24      28      32      38      45       50      56      61
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS     351     388    445      490      560     648     742     800
PROFIT BEFORE TAX          -14     -11      -7      -1      11       17      25      31
NET INCOME                 -14     -11      -7      -1      11       17      25      31



- ll6 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 4
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
ASSUMPTIONS AND CALCULATIONS
Introduction
1.        The financial rate of return (FRR) and economic rate of return
(ERR) for Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari have been calculated in real terms on an
annual basis. According to mineable reserves and production profile, 20
years of full production plus implementation period are taken as the life
of each mine. Cost and benefit streams of each component are shown in
tables attached.
Cost Streams
2.        Capital Costs are based on project implementation schedule and
equipment deployment plan. Replacement investments are estimated according
to useful life of major equipment deployed.
3.        Operating Costs are derived from production and overburden
stripping schedules, together with fixed and variable cost components of
unit operating cost estimates.
4.        Working Capital requirement is derived taking into consideration
the level of minimum cash, inventory of consumables, coal stock,
receivables and payables. This is equivalent to 3 months of operating
expenditure.
Conversion Factors
5.        For the calculation of EIRR, all identifiable duties and taxes are
excluded. In addition, the followirng conversion factors are applied to
each category of inputs to reflect their opportunity costs to the economy:
Conversion Factor          Category of Costs
1.0                  Imported Equipment
0.8                  Inland Freight & Erection of
Imported Equipment
0.8                  Local Equipment
0.8                  Land, Civil Works & Infrastructure
-    1.0                  Engineering & Technical Assistance
0.8                  Pre-operating & Operating Costs
Revenue Stream
6.        For the financial rate of return, the revenue stream is derived
based on coal sales volume and the net pit-head coal price specific to coal
from each mine which is projected to remain constant in real terms. These



- 117 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 4
amount to Rs 124.6 and Rs 245.0 per ton for Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari,
respectively.  For the calculation of the economic rate of return,
projected domestic prices paid by consumers at pit-head adjusted for the
average conversion factor are used as approximation of efficiency prices,
which are Rs 114.6 and Rs 245 per ton for Gevra and Sonepur-Bazari,
respectively.  The financial and economic cost and benefit streams for both
mines are shown below:
Gevra Mine
Financial Cost/Benefit Streams
(Rs million - 1986/87 terms)
Capital        Operating       Working           Net
Fiscal Year      Costs            Costs         Capital        Revenues
1981/82          121                              2               4
1982/83          224               -              4              30
1983/84          273              64             10             130
1984/85          260              82              4             285
1985/86          265             130             13             340
1986/87          363             170             10             386
1987/88          379             240             17             530
1988/89          266             290             13             685
1989/90          340             360             17             897
1990/91          195             411             15           1,059
1991/92          271             411              6           1,246
1992/93          323             411              0           1,246
1993/94-1996/97       160            411              0           1,246
1997/98-2009/10      200             411              0           1,246
2010/2011         (495)           411           (111)          1,246



- u18 -
ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 4
Sonepur-Bazari Mine
Financial Cost/Benefit Streams
(Rs million - 1985/86 terms)
Capital         Operating       Working           Net
Fiscal Year       Costs            Costa         Capital        Revenues
1986/87            36
1987/88           491                              -
1988/89          458                -              4               -
1989/90           262              60             16              98
1990/91           282             150             15             270
1991/92           124             190              3             368
1992/93           153             190              -             368
1993/94           167             190              7             368
1994195        1 141              190             25             368
1995/96           109             300             10             613
1996/97           150             330              -             735
1997/98           113             330              -             735
1998/99           110             330              -             735
1999/2000          116             330              -             735
2000/01           110             330              -             735
2001/02-2005/06       140             330              -             735
2006/07-2013/14       150             330              -             735
2014/15          (220)            330            (80)            735
Gevra Nine
Economic Cost/Benefit Streams
(Rs million - 1985/86 terms)
Capital         Operating       Working           Net
Fiscal Year       Costs            Costs         Capital        Revenues
1981/82            87                              1               4
1982/83           162               -              3              28
1983/84           195              51              7             119
1984/85           187              66              3             262
1985/86           193             104              9             313
1986/87           262             136              7            355
1987/88           271             192             12            487
1988/89           189             232              9             630
1989/90           241             288             12            825
1990/91           136             328             10            974
1991/92           190             328              4          1,146
1992/93          226              328              0          1,146
1993/94-1996/97       112             328              0           1,146
1997/98-2009/10       140             328              0           1,146
2010/11          (353)            328            (77)         1,146



- 119 -
ANNEX 21
Page 4 of 4
sonepur-Bazari mine
Economic Cost/Benefit Streams
(Rs million - 1985/86 terms)
Capital         Operating       Working           Net
Fiscal Year       Costs            Costs         Capital        Revenues
1986/87            30
1987/88           350          
1988/89           333               -              3
1989/90           187              48             11              98
1990/91           199             120             10             270
1991/92            88             152              2             368
1992/93           107             152              -             368
1993/94           117             152              5             368
1994/95            98             152             17             368
1995/96            76             240              7             613
1996/97           105             264              -             735
1907/98            80             264              -             735
1998/99            77             264              -             735
1999/2000           81             264              -             735
2000/01            77             264              -             735
.2001/02-2005/06        98             264              -             735
2006/07-2013/14       105              264              -             735
2014/15         (156)             264            (55)            735



-120-                           ANNEX 22
INDIA - COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. THE COAL SECTOR
1. Report of the Committee on the Problem of Coal Supply to Thermal
Power Stations (the Fazal Committee Report), October 1983.
2. Report of the Committee on Eastern Coalfields (the Chari Committee
Report), October 1985.
3. A Report on Eastern Coalfields, A.N. Banerjee, September 1985.
4. A Report on Coal Aspects of the Seventh Plan, A.N. Barnerjee,
February 1986.
5. The Seventh Plan Coal Working Document, Department of Coal, January
1985.
6. Annual Report 1985/86, Department of Coal, Ministry of Energy.
B. THE COMPANY
1. Coal India Ltd. Annual Report and Accounts 1984/85.
2. Measures for Improvement in Efficiency and Control of Costs, April
1986, CIL.
3. Medium-Term Coal Efficiency Improvement Program 1986-1990, December
1986, CIL.
C. THE PROJECT
1. Feasibility 'Report for Gevra Project, CMPDI, March 1982.
2. Feasibility Report for Sonepur-Bazari Mine, CMPDI, September 1982.
3. Report on Coal Quality Aspects of Ge%ra Mine, Norton Hambleton
Ltd., April 1985.
4. Land Acquisition and Rehabilitation Arrangements at Gevra, SECL,
January 1987.
5. Rehabilitation of Villages, Sonepur-Bazari Project, ECL, January
1987.



PROPOStO AREA FORI    OFFICE          WORKSHOP                        ,      ,'....        '.R.                    -
RESIDINTIALCOLONY      I-                                                                                              - :.
'COTPLEXj DIESEL    i MAIN SUN sN. T N ,                      .           .r     * 
COMLSTDIACEE
OFIAOE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  C~~~iORRIHOORFOR                                    NLTDPKACi3.E F   s<gret  
Marc*r IN?. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~MI WSE Ui
-----------Y 8--     ,E    KUSM   *N-
< * ~~~~~~~~~GEVRA FINAL PIT ';'.4z
~~~~~ _                   j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
GEVRA MINING COMPLEX
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Conl Minirg | nd Coal Otallit1 lntprvmilw ProeKt
Inckustrv Depirtment                                                                                                                                             Wodd Bank 3111I1:1
Mseh 1987.



,                                                        --:.1~~~.-
i            /                        (      X     ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~                         ~     ~     ~~~, < 3 .IDI.
/ \ .X._ a<$t ab \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SONEPUR* BAZARI MINING COMPLEXi
L   /                                                       2 >~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CoaMInwigncoaIOuuityImpmntPro | |t
01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Indultr Dwpirtmniai                                                                                                     WorId Bhnk31111 :7
March 1967



IBRD 19279R
i-2                    v-o~~~~~HIMACHALh  e 
,  -'AFGHANISTAN                      f   >vPRADESH 
P I'.A._
PAKISTAN               (            ?  *-r'                                     CHINA
/       .TtA RH ANAi A
r \ sDEL                                       . .< SIKK/M g
C  ~ ~ ~               LITTAR  ~~~~~~  K   ~~~'BHUTAN
g                            }   ~~~~~~~UTrAR PRADESH            <                  -
RA JA S THAN IPAVSS                          A
t  -    :     Northern Coalfields   N,_)SI                   .S  A
t  <^   ,Y   Ltd. (IYCL)  .\ -      }>     MEOALq4YA
.  l ,> --  re   >  rs<<,;                               B/hAR \ -~~BANGLADESH
GUJAQATr                                                    5epur - Bazari
MADHrA PRADE                     -     *E-T \-Coal Mine
K                  ,.2   -     .  4-f       t         *    jGevra CoalMiner - Eavern Coal fields
<    5    h            xi        \~~~~~~-0  ONog|e<       r          \     v          Ltd. (ECL)
20'O                                                        A              harat Ccking Coal
MAHARASHTRA                                                          Ltd BCL         203
,~"~ \         >Sout Eastern Coalfields
.5,W-' Western Co.tlfields
ANDHRA  PRA                         Ltd. (WCL)
- J  S;naren; Collieries
Co. Ltd. (SCL)
GOAI
\KARATA7 AKA53                                              I N D I A
. 7r"!cn 5C                            t                         COAL MINING AND COAL QUALITY
,A. r-/:('!C/? . cC                              . fM'lta   \              IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
i  ,r  'Th --  tWodfeSCoal Mines Under the Project
\j   < JJtCoal Fields
(.eyveli Lignite      Major Coal Field Areas
7 AfM IVA D     -rP- LtdN    L       Operated by Various Mining Companies
T .A_        U    (NL)            AL   Coal India Ltd Headquarters
rMbht_*8f~~~-E~    I0 A3rr 
iwaealw.d.bi' .-t                                          J                       National Capital .0
(_dT>d _  t    f0        Selected Cities
a,,s     ,_ k.3in                         5         t \Due to seconsiderationssSame areas could not be inluded
ld he e I W e|  )~j   sIn2h4map: North Easrn Coalfields Ltd. Which is locaed in
_td8w                                                       JSRI e\ t   (?    (   '    Anm   notincluded in the map.
_#_>_                    \,       X           ~~~~~~~~~SRI 
of_N_mmy o NW                                                       X               KILOMEERS 0       200        400
_r r  LANKA4,                     ._._._ ._ .__
ffw low amw                 MILES 0       100    200      300
i _ 701                                                                                                       9cN 1.86
JUNE 1986



