                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 25788

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-29760; PPFI-Q0510)

                                                   ON A

                                                  CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.1 MILLION

                                                     TO

                                                 GEORGIA

                                                  FOR A

                MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT




                                               June 20, 2003




Infrastructure & Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 17, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Lari (GEL)
                                 GEL 1.00 = US$ 0.47
                                  US$ 1.00 = 2.14 GEL

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      -   Country Assistance Strategy
CMC      -   Contract Management Consultants
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
ESW      -   Economic Sector Work
FARP     -   Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plan
FRR      -   Financial Rate of Return
FSU      -   Former Soviet Union
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GSIF     -   Georgia Social Investment Fund
ICR      -   Implementation Completion Report
IDA      -   International Development Association
IDF      -   Institutional Development Fund
MA       -   Municipal Audit
MDA      -   Municipal Development Agreement
MDDP     -   Municipal Development and Decentralization Project
MIRP     -   Municipal Infrastructure and Rehabilitation Project
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MTR      -   Mid Term Review
NGO      -   Non-Governmental Organization
OM       -   Operations Manual
PIFF     -   Pre-Investment Feasibility Fund
PIP      -   Priority Investment Plan
PIU      -   Project Implementation Unit
PPF      -   Project Preparation Facility
QAG      -   Quality Assurance Group
RPMS     -   Regional Policy and Management Service
SAR      -   Staff Appraisal Report
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development


                           Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
                        Country Director:       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo, ECCU3
                           Sector Director:     Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
                          Sector Manager:       Sumter Lee Travers, ECSIE
                       Task Team Leader:        Ahmed A. R. Eiweida, ECSIE

                                          GEORGIA
       MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Contribution by Implementing Agencies                                   31

Project ID: P050910                                                      Project Name: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT &
                                                                         DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Ahmed A. R. Eiweida                                         TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 19, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT &                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-29760; PPFI-Q0510
                            DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
   Country/Department: GEORGIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (29%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (29%); General transportation sector (29%);
                            Sub-national government administration (8%); Central government
                            administration (5%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Municipal finance (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Municipal governance and institution building (S);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/10/1997                                        Effective: 12/15/1997              12/15/1997
   Appraisal:    04/28/1997                                            MTR: 07/31/1999                10/31/1999
    Approval:    07/15/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GEORGIA/RPMS; MDF
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                                 Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:            Sumter Lee Travers                                  Thomas A. Blinkhorn
Team Leader at ICR:        Ahmed Eiweida                                       Robert Maurer
ICR Primary Author(s): Ahmed Eiweida; Felix A. Jakob


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the Georgia Municipal Development and Decentralization Project (MDDP) was, as
indicated in the SAR of June 23, 1997, to: "support the initial stage of the decentralization process aimed
at shifting responsibility and accountability in terms of delivery and maintenance of urban services to
municipalities". Specifically, the project intended to "(a) assist the decentralization process at the central
and local government level; (b) promote improvements in financial and administrative management as
well as    municipal investment programs; (c) support urgent local investments; and (d) generate
employment opportunities".

The project's central effort was aimed at establishing an institutional mechanism which would use
performance based lending as a way to leverage institutional reform and management improvement
measures at local government level.

Assessment of the Objectives

The MDDP (Cr. 29760 FY 97, SDR 15.1 million) was a combined outcome of the Georgia Municipal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project - MIRP (Cr. 26500, FY95, SDR 12.5 million), and Sector Work
(ESW) on local government issues carried out in 1996. The MIRP, approved by the Board on July 30,
1994, and closed on June 30, 2000 (see ICR #21822, dated 02/26/2001), provided the basis for a broad
program of Bank support to Georgia's local government sector. In addition to MDDP, this program
included the Georgia Social Investment Fund Project - GSIF (Cr. 30200, FY97, SDR 14.6 million), an IDF
Grant (TF027526, FY96, USD 343,000) to assist the Government in building up local institutional
capacity in municipal management, and the Tbilisi Water Supply Project, (the preparation of which, at this
writing, is still in progress). The ESW on local government issues, which concluded with a Municipal
Policy Note issued in September 1996, allowed to: (a) identify the major institutional development issues
confronting the local government sector; (b) propose a detailed outline for a program of future sector
reform; and (c) make proposals for a Bank assistance strategy and identify the main features of a possible
Bank operation.

At the time of MDDP preparation, Georgia was still struggling to overcome the economic and social
consequences of the post-independence collapse of its economy and the 1992-94 civil war. GDP per capita
had fallen from USD 1,600 in 1991 to USD 410 in 1995; close to 300,000 people were internally
displaced; and the Government had lost de facto control over almost one fifth of the country's territory.
The new Constitution adopted in the summer of 1995 stipulated the principle of conducting local affairs
through local self-government. However, it was only in the fall of 1997 that the Parliament adopted the
Organic Law on Local Self-Government and Government allowing the Government to begin the
implementation of the State Program for the Municipal Development of Georgia and organize the first
local government elections (which, after delays, were finally held in November 1998). In the years since,
Georgia's economy has only modestly improved, the drive for structural reforms has largely stalled, and
poverty has been increasing.

The MDDP was in line with the preliminary CAS of March 1995 and consistent with the objectives of the
new CAS discussed by the Board on September 22, 1997, which focused, inter alia, on: (a) improving
mobilization of local resources; (b) developing institutional capacity for better expenditure management at
central and local levels; (c) improving management of public assets; and (d) reducing poverty.



                                                     - 2 -

In its principles, the MDDP responded to issues on the Government's agenda and addressed problems that
were - and still are - of real need. However, decentralization and local government development, especially
in a country with no previous tradition in this area, is necessarily a lengthy and complex process.
Immediate results should not be expected and a sustained long-term support is essential for achieving
lasting results. Primarily for this reason, the Bank agreed to have the MDDP followed by a second
operation, the Georgia Municipal Development and Decentralization Project II - MDDP II (Cr.37010, SDR
15.4 million) which was approved on August 1, 2002 and became effective on February 19, 2003. The
objective of the MDDP II is to continue, and expand on, the work initiated under the MDDP and help local
governments increase the effectiveness of their management of local infrastructure and delivery of utility
services.

The MDDP focused on highly relevant institutional development issues, but its relatively ambitious
objectives conflicted with the weaknesses of the existing local government system which then was in its
early infancy and encumbered by a huge legacy of Soviet administrative traditions. Making the access to
investment financing conditional on the efforts made by participating local governments to improve their
administrative and financial management performance was a new and innovative approach in the context of
a FSU country. However, neither the project's design nor its implementation arrangements sufficiently
took into account the constraints imposed by Georgia's political, institutional and social environment and,
as a result, the MDDP fell in the end short of its original institutional development targets.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The general objectives of the MDDP were not changed.

The implementation of the MDDP had a difficult start for the reasons mentioned above and discussed in
detail below in Section 4.2. The Mid-Term-Review (MTR) of November 1999 concluded that "the
original project objectives and scope exceed the capacity to implement all of its aspects and achieve all
intended results within the time available [to the closing date]". In light of this conclusion, the Bank and
the Government jointly agreed to reduce the complexity of the original project design by narrowing the
objectives and the scope of several project components, simplifying management arrangements, and
delimiting various tasks that were too broadly defined. In doing so, they implicitly consented to loosen the
link between the performance of participating municipalities in the implementation of a broader program of
reforms and their access to investment resources. As a result, they decided to narrow the objectives of the
MDDP and to focus on building up the creditworthiness and project management capacity of participating
municipalities as a main target. Accordingly, the MDDP was to aim henceforth primarily at "(a)
establishing within participating districts and cities a capacity to identify, evaluate and finance priority
investments; (b) establishing within the participating districts and cities a capacity to evaluate (as part of
their budget management process), to incur and to repay debt; (c) establishing a viable financing
mechanism through the Municipal Development Fund to support local investments; and (d) supporting
further development of the legislative framework necessary for participating districts and cities to meet
the above objectives."

The restructuring which, as designed, did not require approval by the Board, proved to be successful as the
project, after the closing date was extended by one year to December 31, 2002, was satisfactorily
completed and the IDA credit fully disbursed.




                                                      - 3 -

3.3 Original Components:

The original project components were as follows:

(a)     Institutional Development (original cost: USD 5.7 million)

The component was to fund - within the framework of the Government's State Program of Municipal
Development - technical assistance and other activities that would support the building of institutional
capacity at central and local government levels. The component, which was implemented under the
responsibility of the Municipal Programs Implementation Coordination Center (MPICC), one of the two
PIUs created for the MDDP, included two sub-components:

    (i)      Institutional development at local government level: The objective of this sub-component was
             the preparation of Municipal Development Agreements (MDAs). MDAs, the project's central
             feature, were to serve as the mechanism that would allow the MDDP to use performance based
             lending for leveraging reform and management improvement measures at local government
             level. MDAs were conceived as a contractual agreement under which the Government would
             provide financial resources from the MDDP for investments once participating local
             governments implement a program of specific reforms and measures to improve administrative
             and financial management, including public services delivery. The signing of MDAs was to be
             contingent on the prior completion of the following three activities by participating local
             governments:

                 Municipal Audit (MA) to establish a diagnostic assessment of the financial management,
                 use of existing and potential new revenue sources, public service delivery, and staff
                 development.

                 Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plan (FARP) to define, on the basis of the
                 conclusions and recommendations of the MA, a multi-annual program of measures to be
                 taken by the municipality to improve its administrative organization, financial
                 management, and public service delivery.

                 Priority Investment Plan (PIP) to identify medium-term physical investment priorities,
                 commensurate with the municipality's financial capacity, and provide the basis for the
                 investment programs to be financed by the MDDP.

                 Although not included in the original program of prerequisites, a Sociological Household
                 Survey was later added to provide a better understanding of the actual needs of the local
                 populations.

    (ii)     Institutional development at national level: The objective of this sub-component was to
             strengthen the Government's capacity to effectively implement its decentralization program by
             providing funding for technical assistance, training and studies to the Ministry of Finance, the
             State Chancellery, and other Government entities involved in the development of the local
             government system. To this effect, the sub-component was to support: (a) the development of
             a national information systems for municipal service delivery, (b) analysis of policy
             alternatives, (c) the evaluation of the impact of regional and sector investments on municipal



                                                      - 4 -

             finance, and (d) the operations of a project coordination unit. Studies to be financed, which
             were specifically identified in the SAR, included policy proposals for: (a) improvement of
             inter-governmental fiscal relations, (b) development of housing sector strategies, and (c)
             management of urban land development. The sub-component also included the purchase of
             computers, office equipment and vehicles for participating municipalities and Government
             agencies involved in the MDDP.

(b)      Physical Investments (original: USD 20.4 million)

The component, which was implemented under the responsibility of the Municipal Development Fund
(MDF), the second PIU created for the project, was to channel to participating municipalities the financial
resources for the execution of the investment projects agreed on under the MDAs. Sub-projects of a cost
not to exceed USD 500,000, could include the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of public
infrastructure and services - such as roads, drainage, lighting, water supply, and sanitation - as well as
social, educational, health and cultural facilities under the responsibility of local governments.
Implementation arrangements for the component were detailed in an Operations Manual (MDF OM).
Investments were to be financed under the following terms: 20% local government cost-sharing
contribution, 40% Government grant, and 40% MDF credit. Credit rates were set at either 15% per annum
for investments in `public goods' or 20% per annum for revenue generating projects.

The selection of participating municipalities was, in theory, to be based on the following criteria: (a)
demonstrated willingness to reform, (b) basic financial and administrative capacity to implement the
development program; and (c) geographical distribution (with at least one municipality per each
administrative region in Georgia). In practice, it was the last criterion that became the pivotal factor with
all participating municipalities being designated in a top-down approach by the State Chancellery's
Regional Policy and Management Service (RPMS).

In keeping with MDDP's design as a fund-type operation, no specific investments were identified prior to
Board presentation. A catalog of standard municipal investment projects was to be prepared as a first step
of project implementation. The assumption was that, from the Soviet period, most municipalities still had
an inventory of small projects that could be quickly taken off the shelves, screened, and implemented on a
fast track with the assistance of the MDF and its consultants.

The responsibilities of the MDF were to: (a) assist the participating municipalities in the preparation of
investment proposals, (b) assess and review the financial and economic viability of such proposals; and (c)
ensure the financial management of the implementation of sub-projects.           In recognition of the acute
shortage of capacity within local governments, the MDDP envisaged that all project procurement and
supervision would be farmed out to independent local Contract Management Consultants (CMC). Under
contract with the MDF, the CMCs were to assist the participating municipalities in: (a) reviewing the
adequacy of technical proposals, (b) preparing procurement documents, (c) providing procurement training
to municipal staff, and (d) overseeing contract execution.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components were not changed.

Changes to both the project components and the implementation arrangements were made at the MTR,
however, to adjust the project design and implementation arrangements to the Georgian context and to
create the conditions for a more efficient and expeditious implementation. These adjustments included,


                                                    - 5 -

inter alia, the revision of the role of MDAs and the conditions for access to investment resources, the
introduction of a single credit rate of 15%, and the revision and simplification of various sections of the
MDF OM. In the spring of 2001, the closing date of the Credit was extended by one year from December
31, 2001 to December 31, 2002 to make up for the time lost at project start up and allow for the
satisfactory completion of all components of the MDDP.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no QAG assessment of Quality at Entry.

The ICR rates Quality at Entry as unsatisfactory.

The above rating is based on the following considerations. While the concept of an operation to support
decentralization had been developed and discussed with the Government over a certain time in connection
with MIRP supervision and ESW on local government issues, the MDDP as a specific project, was
prepared and brought to the Board in the short time of about four months. The rapid preparation
represented a noteworthy achievement and allowed to secure the availability of IDA resources which
otherwise would have been lost for Georgia. However, it came at a substantial cost in terms of the
project's attention to design details and readiness for implementation. Combined with ineffective
implementation arrangements, the project design deficiencies prevented the project from achieving most of
its original broad objectives (which subsequently were narrowed and refocused at the MTR).                The
following discussion highlights both positive and negative aspects of preparation.

Consistency with Bank Strategy: The project fulfilled this factor to a substantial degree.

MDDP was consistent with the 1995 preliminary CAS and the 1997 CAS, as it aimed at (a) improving
mobilization of local resources, (b) developing institutional capacity for better expenditure management at
central and local levels, and (c) improving management of public assets.

Government Ownership and Stakeholder Involvement: The project fulfilled this factor to a modest degree.

In its principles, the MDDP responded to the Government's development priorities. It coincided with the
aims of the State Program for Municipal Development and its concept was fully supported by the
Government. However, due to the constraints imposed by the rapidity of preparation, the project was
prepared mostly by Bank staff. Government involvement in decisions on specific features of the project,
details of its design, and implementation arrangements was limited. Likewise stakeholder involvement was
modest. Participating municipalities were designated by the Government. Under these circumstances, even
though a noteworthy effort was made to organize several workshops to explain the project concept to these
municipalities, a true commitment and ownership was difficult to obtain.

Project Design: The project fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree.

In itself, the concept of the MDDP was innovative and the attempt to promote performance-based lending
to municipalities as a way to leverage institutional reform at local level was attractive. In the environment
of Georgia, however, the approach turned out to be impractical and ill-adapted to the political, institutional
and social realities of the country. The project design was rather complex and, in spite of the Bank's
previous experience in Georgia, relied on unrealistic assumptions on the actual institutional, financial and
technical capacities of both the Government and the participating municipalities. The concept of the



                                                     - 6 -

MDAs as a legally binding agreement between the Government and the participating municipalities was
never fully endorsed by the Georgian authorities. An assessment of the actual financial capacity of the
major municipalities and potential project beneficiaries was not carried out and the amount of the IDA
credit exceeded by far the local governments' combined borrowing capacity (with the exception of Tbilisi).
The concept of local Contract Management Consultants (CMC) for project preparation turned out to be
impractical for lack of suitably qualified local consultants in Georgia. No institutional mechanism or legal
instrument was put in place to effectively protect MDF against possible defaults on loan repayments by
participating municipalities.

Project Administrative Structure: The project fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree.

The administrative structure of the MDDP was ineffective and counterproductive. The purported rationale
for dividing the responsibility for project implementation between two PIUs (each under the authority of a
different Government entity) was that this arrangement would help mitigate the danger of Government
internal disputes about project oversight responsibilities and, concurrently, reduce the potential for
corruption. In reality, the adoption of a split project management system - with one PIU being responsible
for the institutional aspects of the project and the other PIU in charge of its investment elements -
compromised from the outset the successful use of performance based lending as a development tool. The
two project components soon evolved into separate operations pursuing their own goals and, under these
circumstances, using access to investment financing as an instrument to leverage institutional reform at
local government level rapidly became an elusive objective.

Institutional Analysis: The project fulfilled this factor to a modest degree.

The Bank recognized the political difficulties that the Government could experience in expediting the
implementation of an ambitious agenda for decentralization and local government development, but was
over-optimistic in its assessment of the Government's actual capacity to overcome the political resistances.
Elected local governments did not exist when the project started and, after several postponements, the first
local election took place in November 1998. Most laws, which the project and the preceding ESW
identified as a prerequisite for an efficiently operating local government system, are still under discussion
to date.

The project team also failed to verify the actual legal feasibility and political acceptability of a novel
concept such as the MDA which was to form the cornerstone of the project but, as it turned out, could not
play the role it had been assigned.

Assessment of Risk: The project fulfilled this factor to a modest degree.

The SAR identified and articulated some of the principal risks, including the lack of management capacity
at local government level, the uncertainty of future political support to decentralization and possible
reluctance of participating local governments to comply with project conditions. However, the recognition
of these risks did not translate into changes in the design features or incorporation of mitigation measures
that could have contributed to efficiently address these issues.

Readiness for Implementation: The project fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree.

Both the MPICC and the MDF, the two PIUs, were created only shortly before Board approval of the
MDDP. A PPF in the amount of USD 400,000 to finance the cost associated with their initial operation
was approved on July 3, 1997. The two PIUs spent a substantial portion of the following six months hiring


                                                       - 7 -

staff, building up the logistical base for project implementation, and, in the case of the MDF, preparing
selection criteria and evaluation methodologies of municipal investments. The project became effective on
December 15, 1997, but PIUs did not become fully operational until March 1998. While work for the
preparation of MDAs started in the fall of 1997 with the help of a Bank consultant, identification of MDF
sub-projects and preparation of required technical designs and procurement documents did not start until
the spring of 1998 and execution of the first MDDP financed works contract only began in the spring of
1999. At the time of the MTR in November 1999, almost two-and-a-half years after Board approval, total
disbursements stood at SDR 2.1 million or 14 % of the IDA credit amount of SDR 15.1 million. While it
can be argued that projects focussing primarily on institutional development often are slow in getting up to
speed, the risk was not reflected either in the procurement or disbursement schedules.

Economic and Financial Analysis: In keeping with its design as a financial intermediary fund type
operation, no economic and financial analysis was required for the MDDP. This factor is therefore
irrelevant for the Quality at Entry assessment.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The ICR rates the outcome and achievements of the project as satisfactory on the grounds that, despite its
difficult start, the MDDP managed to complete the narrowed down and refocused program agreed to at the
MTR, fully disbursed the resources of the IDA credit, and produced a number of concrete and visible
results on the ground. Most of these results had a tangible positive impact on the livelihood of the
beneficiary population in the eleven participating municipalities. In the MDF, the MDDP also created a
financing mechanism for municipal investments which, to date, operates efficiently and, within the limits
discussed below in Section 6.1, has reasonable prospects of sustainability.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Satisfactory progress was made in the first two years of implementation only in the preparation of MDAs.
The preparation of other technical assistance and investment projects, on the other hand, was advancing at
a much slower pace. The CMC arrangements never worked due to insufficient availability of required
local technical expertise in Georgia. At the MTR in November 1999, almost two-and-a-half years after
Board approval, total disbursements stood at SDR 2.1 million or 14 % of the IDA credit amount of SDR
15.1 million. Only three sub-projects in two municipalities were under implementation, of which one
financed the completion of an operation that had been started under the MIRP but could not be completed
due to lack of funding. While the original project design called for a ceiling limit of USD 500,000 by
sub-project, the MTR decided to relax this constraint and permitted the MDF to decide on project amounts
on a case by case basis. The MTR also decided to loosen the link between MDAs, PIPs and MDF
investments and authorize the MDF to henceforth allocate resources strictly on the basis of the borrowing
capacity and creditworthiness of participating municipalities, (though this required MDF to set up its own
municipal monitoring system). Original project management arrangements, relying on the use of CMCs,
were dropped and the MDF's role was streamlined and expanded. The MTR decisions resulted in a rapid
expansion of the project portfolio and IDA credit disbursements.           However, this acceleration was
essentially due to the fact that the MDF was able to direct about two thirds of MDDP resources to Tbilisi,
the capital city of Georgia and only municipality in the country that had a large borrowing capacity.




                                                      - 8 -

The sections below provide a detailed evaluation of the outputs of each of MDDP's two components and
their respective sub-components.

I.       Institutional Development

Outputs under this component have to be separated into two categories: (a) sub-national development
output in terms of MDAs, training, studies, and technical assistance; and (b) national institutional
development output in terms of training, studies, and technical assistance.

(a)      Sub-national development:

Municipal Development Agreements (MDAs): The MDDP provided for the preparation and signing of
MDAs in twelve municipalities (Akhalsikhe, Ambrolauri, Batumi, Gori, Kazbegi, Kutaisi, Ozurgeti, Poti,
Rustavi, Telavi, Tbilisi, Zugdidi). Eleven of these municipalities developed an MDF investment program.
As noted (Section 3.3, above), MDAs were based on the prior preparation of a Municipal Audit (MA), a
Financial and Administrative Reform Program (FARP), a Priority Investment Program (PIP) and a
Sociological Household Survey,

As explained earlier, the original objective of MDAs was to provide, for each participating municipality,
the framework of institutional reforms and management improvement measures whose implementation
would condition the access to investment financing provided by the Government through the MDF. The
effectiveness of this concept was reduced almost from the outset as the MDAs as never evolved into a
legally binding agreement between the two parties and their role was limited, basically, to that of a
technical assistance agreement between the MPICC and the participating municipalities.

The split of implementation responsibilities between the MPICC and the MDF further reduced the
importance of MDAs. All MDA-related activities were carried out by the MPICC with the support of local
consultants. The completion of MDAs took much longer than originally envisaged, the combined result of
the novelty of the concept, the weakness of municipal administrations, and the relative unfamiliarity of
local consultants with the principles of modern municipal management. For the same reasons, the quality
of MDAs also varied significantly among the participating municipalities and, in several cases, the extent
of local ownership appeared to be a debatable question.

In principle, any MDDP investment was to be financed by the MDF only if it was part of a PIP prepared
with the assistance of the MPICC and incorporated into an officially approved MDA. Partly, because of
the delays that occurred in the completion and approval of MDAs, the preparation of investment proposals
by participating municipalities did not start seriously until mid-1999; only two-and-a-half years before the
original closing date. When to accelerate project implementation, the link between MDAs and MDF
investment programs was loosened at the MTR and improving the creditworthiness of participating
municipalities was set as the primary and more modest objective of the MDDP, MDAs lost their principal
raison d'etre and became largely irrelevant for the project.

The emphasis, from the MTR onward, on municipal creditworthiness had positive effects. According to
the Final Report prepared by the MPICC, a comparison between participating and non-participating
municipalities shows that, on average, the participating municipalities advanced better in terms of
budgetary management and staffing efficiency. Although the capacity of local governments to improve
their financial situation was rather limited due to national policy restrictions, the participating
municipalities increased their own-source fiscal revenues at an average of 11% (excluding Tbilisi where the
increase was 30%). The same figures decreased by 16% in non-participating municipalities. Total


                                                     - 9 -

budgetary income during the period 1998-2002 increased on average by 35% in participating
municipalities, whereas it decreased by an average of 30% in most of the other municipalities. Significant
reductions in staff, the introduction of competitive procurement procedures, and improved management of
sale or lease of municipal property produced additional revenue increases. Most importantly, cumulative
debt capacity increased by a factor of 2.5. However, while broadly positive, these developments cannot
conceal that, by the closing date of the project, four of the eleven participating municipalities had defaulted
on loan repayments to the MDF.

Training: Over the life of the project, the MPICC organized a total of over 100 training seminars that
benefited about 2,000 staff of participating municipalities. Topics included legal aspects of municipal
management and taxation, tax codes, budgetary management techniques, procurement, information
technology, accounting standards, computerized budget implementation and reporting. The preparation of
the training program benefited from the help of a foreign consultant, but actual training was provided
exclusively by local consultants. The MPICC also organized study tours for mayors and other local
government officials to Brazil and France. To broaden the range of training, The MPICC, with the
assistance of foreign consultants, developed a system of training-of-trainers.         Target areas included
financial management, urban management, human resources management, and local development strategy.
Though useful as a concept, the actual effectiveness of this training system was limited since the
sustainability of this program had to rely on local financial resources that, in most cases, did not
materialize.

Information systems: The MPICC organized the procurement and installation of computer equipment in
participating municipalities as well as the training of corresponding staff. The ultimate goal of the
component was to provide for the countrywide standardized generation and processing of data on municipal
management in a way that would allow the Government to monitor municipal performance in real time.
However, the efforts of the MPICC in this area fell somewhat short of its objective due to shortage of
specific technical expertise and lack of appropriate coordination among the participating municipalities, the
Government and donor agencies involved in the local government sector.

Management of public services: The MPICC helped two participating municipalities, Poti and Rustavi,
make necessary management improvements to ensure the sustainability of water utility operations. To this
effect, the MPICC contracted a foreign consultant to advise the two municipalities in identifying the
measures required to improve the technical and financial management of the utilities. In Poti, local
authorities fully adopted the recommendations and reorganized the utility along commercial principles with
the support of a USAID financed consultant. The rate of collection rose from less than 5% to more than
35% over a period of about twelve months after the utility was authorized to cut off defaulting customers.

The MPICC also financed studies on improving the management of electrical surface and underground
urban transport systems in Tbilisi (metro and trolley buses). Both systems had already benefited from a
USD 1.25 million financing of spare parts under the MIRP. Under the MDDP, studies, carried out by
foreign consultants, helped assess further needs and provide the basis for a comprehensive and rational
short- and-medium term priority investment programs.

(b)      National institutional development

Donor Coordination: The MPICC was extensively involved in organizing an incipient coordination among
the various donors involved in local government support activities in Georgia. Donors included a total of
more than a dozen multi- and bi-lateral organizations and NGOs. It also focused on fostering transparency
of, and public participation in, municipal management through organizing access to the media.


                                                     - 10 -

The MPICC assisted the MOF in the preparation and implementation of reforms of: (a) the monthly,
quarterly and annual reports on budget execution by local governments; and (b) the local accounting
system. However, the evolution of the overall political climate prevented a foreign expert, who had been
hired by the MPICC as a resident local financial advisor to the MOF to successfully advise on further
reforms.     None of the major policy studies agreed upon during project (i.e. improvement of
inter-governmental fiscal relations; development of a housing sector strategy; and management of urban
land development) was carried out. Some of these themes, however, were taken up by other donors such as
USAID while others were incorporated in the MDDP II.

II.      Physical investments

The MDDP financed investments in eleven municipalities. As mentioned above, the preparation and
implementation of subproject investments did not start until mid-1999. At the time of the MTR, in
November 1999, total disbursements stood at SDR 2.1 million or 14% of the IDA credit amount of SDR
15.1 million. There were several reasons for such delays. The original assumption that local governments
were holding feasible investment project proposals had proven to be wrong. The CMC arrangement for
project preparation turned out to be impractical because of lack of suitably qualified consultants in
Georgia. The lack of needed staff also prevented the MDF from substituting for the CMCs. The quality of
feasibility studies or procurement documents submitted to the Bank was often poor and resulted in a
protracted, resource-intensive, and time-consuming review process.          The difficulties were eventually
overcome through MDF's contracting of an international procurement advisor, and the hiring of more
adequately skilled local staff. Following the advise given at the MTR, the MPICC contracted the services
of a foreign consulting firm to review investment needs of participating municipalities and assist the
authorities of the latter in the preparation of more viable proposals. However, in several cases, the
sub-projects identified by the consultants could not be implemented within the time left to the closing of the
MDDP or did not fit within the borrowing capacity of municipalities. Finally, to specifically address issues
in the water supply sector, the MDF hired in 1998 a foreign consulting firm (which had been previously
active in Georgia for the preparation of the Tbilisi water supply project) to identify and prepare projects for
possible operations in Gori, Poti, Rustavi and Kutaisi. Actual projects materialized for the first three of
these municipalities. Additionally, a project for the municipality of Telavi was prepared with the assistance
of TACIS in 1999.

Because the borrowing capacity of most municipalities was small in comparison with the amount of
resources available, two thirds of the project's investment resources were absorbed by Tbilisi, the only
municipality in Georgia that could afford borrowing large amounts. Batumi, Kutaisi, Poti, and Rustavi,
the next four largest municipalities, consumed together only 23%.

A total of 89 investment projects were financed and implemented by the MDF in eleven municipalities.
About 64% of investment funding was used for urban road rehabilitation projects, 11% for water supply
projects, 10% for projects in the education sector, 4% for public transport projects, 2% for health sector
projects, and about 9% for other miscellaneous projects.

Urban road projects dealt exclusively with the rehabilitation of existing urban roads in Tbilisi, Batumi,
Kutaisi, Poti, and Rustavi. Water supply projects included water main and sewerage network repair works
in Tbilisi, and rehabilitation of water catchments, distribution networks, installing meters and pumping
installations in Gori, Poti, Rustavi, and Telavi. Public transport projects included the purchase of spare
parts for the Tbilisi metro (in continuation of investments initiated under the MIRP). Health sector projects
included the rehabilitation of the traumatology hospital in Tbilisi and regional hospitals in Kazbegi and


                                                     - 11 -

Ozurgeti. Education sector projects included the repair of the heating system in a secondary school in
Tbilisi and the construction of, and supply of furniture for, a school in Ambrolauri. Other projects
included the completion of the construction of a retaining wall for a solid waste deposit (in continuation of
previous investments made under the MIRP) and the purchase of solid waste collection vehicles in Batumi,
the rehabilitation of a cultural center in Ambrolauri, river bank repairs, public street lighting and elevator
repairs in public housing units in Tbilisi, and a groundwater drainage project in Tbilisi Old City in support
of the Georgia Cultural Heritage Project (Cr. 3040; FY98).

Benefits of urban road rehabilitation, public transport and other projects are more difficult to assess but are
considered substantial. Road rehabilitation benefited roads that had deteriorated to a point where vehicle
transit, especially for public transport, had become virtually impossible thereby imposing severe hardship
on the residents, especially those of outlying and frequently poorer neighborhoods. The same reasons
justified the MDDP support for the Tbilisi metro which carries about 40% of all public transport
passengers in a city where public transport remains the principal means of transport, especially for the
poor.

The water supply projects financed by the MDF had visible positive results. In Gori, the construction of
new wells and the installation of a new gravity fed supply line provided a reliable and permanent water
delivery to about 16,000 inhabitants who previously had only intermittent or no access to running water at
all. In Poti, the repair and extension of the secondary distribution network in several neighborhoods allowed
to significantly reduce water losses, establish individual house connections and increase reliability of
supply in various neighborhoods with a total benefiting population of about 3,500 inhabitants. In Rustavi,
the construction of new wells, the repair of elements of the primary network, and the rehabilitation of
pumping stations led to a fourfold increase in the availability of water from three hours a day to twelve
hours for the city's population of 155,000. In Telavi, the development of new spring sources, the repair of
corroded water mains and the installation of chlorination equipment allowed to increase the availability of
water supply to the city's population of 30,000 from previously a few hours once or twice a week to a few
hours once a day.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

Because the MDDP was designed as a fund-type operation, no ERR or NPV could be calculated at
appraisal. However, in accordance with the eligibility criteria for MDF financing that were stipulated in
the MDF OM, all proposed investments had to complete a cost benefit analysis and show an economic rate
of return (ERR) of at least 12%, or if not applicable, to meet other specifically agreed criteria. All projects
prepared with the assistance of consultants complied with these requirements. Available documents do not
allow to demonstrate, however, that a rigorous economic analysis was systematically used by the MDF to
decide on the eligibility of other investments, especially in the later years of the project.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

For the same reasons as above, no FRR was calculated.                  Projects for water utilities and other
revenue-generating entities should, in principle, have been required to be based on a detailed financial
analysis, financial forecasts, and financial action plans.      However, in the Georgian context such an



                                                     - 12 -

undertaking would have been of doubtful practicality given the state of the finances of the utilities, the lack
of reliable data, and the widespread opposition in the population to the notion of paying for public services.



4.5 Institutional development impact:

In the absence of a comprehensive assessment of the current status of the local government reform in
Georgia it is difficult to determine: (a) to what extent the MDDP had a specific and critical institutional
development impact on the local government system as a whole, and/or (b) how its contribution could be
differentiated from the effects of the assistance provided by other donors, especially USAID. As a tool to
leverage reform at local government level, MDAs proved to be impractical and no attempt was made by the
Government to apply the concept beyond the local governments associated with the MDDP. The MDDP's
attempt to focus, from MTR onward, on the to improvement of local financial management and municipal
creditworthiness as a key objective, is likely to have had a significant impact. But the fact that four out of
eleven participating municipalities defaulted on loan repayments to the MDF casts some doubts as to the
solidity and sustainability of these results. The MDDP's most noteworthy institutional achievement lies in
the creation of a financing mechanism for local government investments which, to dates, operates efficiently
and, within certain limits (see Section 6.1), has reasonable prospects for sustainability.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The were no factors outside the control of the Government, the PIUs or the participating municipalities that
affected the implementation and/or the outcome of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

While civil unrest had generally subsided at the time of project start up (except for periodic flare ups of
tensions over the Abkhazia issue) political stability and the economy in Georgia remained in a precarious
state. The implementation of the Government's decentralization agenda, in particular, moved at a much
slower pace than what had been anticipated during project preparation. Even though first local government
elections were held in the fall of 1998 and followed by second elections in the summer of 2002, the legal
and institutional framework for local government, at this point, remains in a state of flux. Already existing
laws have gone through successive amendments. The adoption of important new laws, that should have
supported the local government framework, has been repeatedly postponed.               At this writing, local
government responsibilities continue to be shifted, the legal status of local government property has yet to
be determined, and the system of inter-governmental fiscal relations is still awaiting a final definition within
the local budget law under preparation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The problems created by the existence of two PIUs that operated in parallel could not be resolved
effectively. Coordination between the two agencies was ineffective throughout the project and resulted in a
frequent duplication of functions, especially in the areas of procurement and financial management.
Monitoring of implementation progress, physical results, and development outcomes of the project lacked
thoroughness and was sometimes of debatable quality. Procurement under the project was slow during the
first two years for the reasons explained earlier, but subsequently accelerated with no major problem being



                                                     - 13 -

reported. The lack of an institutional mechanism or legal instrument to protect MDF against defaults on
loan repayments was unfortunate and could not be repaired.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original cost of the project was USD 26.1 million. The IDA contribution was USD 20.9 million
(SDR 15.1 million) while the remainder was provided by the Government (USD 1.1 million) and the
participating municipalities (USD 4.1 million). The project fully disbursed the SDR 15.1 million IDA
credit. The original closing date of December 31, 2001 was extended once, and the project was closed on
December 31, 2002. Disbursements for the institutional development component reached about 78% of the
originally allocated amount, while those for the investment component reached about 106%. It must be
noted that comparisons between appraisal cost estimates and actual costs are difficult due to: (a) the
fluctuations of the SDR vis--vis the US Dollar between 1997 and 2003, and (b) the concurrent
depreciation of the Lari, the Georgian currency, vis--vis the US Dollar.

Local counterpart funding was made available by the Government only partially. Funding by participating
municipalities was provided in accordance with agreements, although significant delays were frequently
cited as a problem and prompted Bank management to repeatedly express its concern. Co-financing from
other donors in an amount of USD 2.0 million had been sought by the Government but did not materialize.
Small contributions from donors were made in only two cases: TACIS financed the preparation of a
feasibility study for a water supply project in Telavi from its Pre-Investment Feasibility Fund (PIFF), and
USAID provided technical assistance to the Poti water utility to help implement the recommendations for
management improvement made by the MDDP funded consultant.

All audits were carried out in time and were unqualified.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The ICR rates the sustainability of critical elements of the MDDP as likely.

The likely ability of MDF to continue to operate in satisfactory conditions provided the ground for the
MDDP II (SDR 15.40, FY 03) which, as follow up project, was approved by the Board on August 1,
2002 and became effective on February 19, 2003. The reunification of institutional development activities
and investment operations under the responsibility of the MDF as the sole PIU and the streamlining of
project management and investment procedures are expected to significantly enhance the prospects for
achieving the development impact which the MDDP had originally aimed at. According to the borrowing
capacity assessments made for the MDDP II most municipalities that participated in the MDDP will be
able to continue to borrow from the MDF for the financing of their investment needs and they are likely to
be joined by a number of other local governments.

In the foreseeable future, the MDF will not be able to operate as a fully self-financing institution and will
remain largely dependent on inflow of concessional external financing for its investment resources. Under
the MDDP II, the MDF is expected to finance its entire operating costs as well as about 20% of the new
investment projects from repayments made by participating local governments and thereby begin to widen
its financial autonomy. However, the fact that, by the closing of the MDDP, four out of the eleven



                                                    - 14 -

participating municipalities had defaulted, to one degree or another, on their loan repayments to the MDF,
calls for caution and a close follow up of MDF's financial performance on the part of both the Bank and the
Government.      There is a non-negligible risk that, in the absence of prompt remedial action by the
Government (including the creation of a mechanism or legal instrument necessary to enforce payments),
other municipalities might be tempted to default on loan repayments, a development that could rapidly
endanger the future financial viability of MDF operations and jeopardize its sustainability as an institution.




6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

All projects financed by the MDF under the MDDP in the participating municipalities were handed over
upon completion to the municipal authorities or their utilities for regular operation and maintenance.
Guaranteeing the future availability of budgetary resources for satisfactory maintenance was a precondition
that participating municipalities had to fulfill in order to obtain a loan from the MDF.           Similarly,
identifying and taking the necessary steps to improve their financial situation and ultimately achieve their
financial autonomy was a precondition for utilities to become eligible for the financing of sub-projects .


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank completed project preparation in an exceptionally short period of time.               However, this
outstanding performance came at a cost. As described in Section 3.5, Quality at Entry is assessed as
unsatisfactory, principally due to deficiencies in essential aspects of project design, including
implementation arrangements, institutional analysis, and readiness for implementation. As evidenced by
the project files, peer reviewers and some Bank staff voiced concerns during the review process about the
adequacy of the project design and the readiness for implementation. However, it appears that although the
validity of these concerns was acknowledged, it was decided not to delay the operation, lest the available
IDA resources be lost for Georgia.


7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. After two years of slow implementation, the
Bank took a very pro-active attitude at the MTR and agreed to changes that were necessary to accelerate
project implementation. The Bank felt that a more comprehensive restructuring of the project was not
warranted and the project could be turned around within the existing framework of legal agreements and
implementation arrangements.       Supervision missions were adequately staffed and spaced and were
complemented by intensive follow up from the Bank's Washington and Moscow offices, especially in the
area of procurement and financial management. Task manager responsibility changed four times over the
life of the project, however. The point that the Bank should have paid a closer attention to at both the MTR
and during subsequent supervision missions, was to create a mechanism to more reliably monitor project
results and outcome indicators and detect possible problems in the financial performance of the
participating municipalities at an early stage.




                                                    - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory on the grounds that the Bank was able to turn the project
around and assist the two PIUs in bringing it to a satisfactory completion.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Government involvement in preparation was limited as the project was essentially prepared by Bank staff.
Key counterparts were only designated around the time of Board presentation and consequently had little
involvement in preparation activities.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Direct Government involvement in project implementation was limited to general oversight of the MPICC
and MDF operations. The political support given by the Government to the MDF was strong and helped
the latter to ascertain its role within the MDDP as a key financial intermediary for the participating
municipalities.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Setting aside the issues of inter-agency cooperation/coordination, the performance of the two implementing
agencies is considered satisfactory. The MDF, in particular, evolved into an efficiently operating entity
that managed to recapture the time lost at project start up and complete MDDP in a timely and satisfactory
fashion. However, the MPICC and MDF should have worked together to establish a better mechanism to
monitor project results, solicit beneficiaries' views on subprojects, and develop a set of reliable outcome
indicators. MDF's performance in monitoring the financial results of the participating municipalities lacked
thoroughness though, with no effective legal instrument at its disposal, even better quality monitoring
would not have prevented any participating municipalities from defaulting on loan repayments.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned


(a) Rushing project preparation may come at a cost:

Many Bank projects suffer from excessively protracted and resource intensive preparation. On the other
hand, rushing the preparation of a project and leaving details to be worked out to implementation is likely
to cost a disproportionately high amount of supervision resources and carries the risk of significant delays
in project start up. These risks were all the greater in a country like Georgia which, at the time of project



                                                    - 16 -

preparation, was barely emerging from years of political and economic turmoil and had little familiarity
with the concepts, methods and requirements of project preparation and implementation in line with Bank
standards. Operations whose main focus is on institutional development, cannot expect to be successful
without a minimum time devoted to prior policy dialogue, assessment of political context and institutional
feasibility, as well as building up of local involvement and ownership.

(b) Political commitment to reform should be cautiously assessed:

The depth of overall commitment to political reform is difficult to judge in any country and caution should
be exerted when interpreting statements or declarations of intent of specific political personalities or
groups. Transition to democracy like transition to market economy is a lengthy and complex process that
involves, as evidenced by Georgia's history of the past few years, a wide variety of actors with often
diverging interests. Setting, in such a context, the targets for the development outcome too high carries the
risk that if the political process is delayed for one reason or another, the operation may find itself soon
bereft of its objectives and reduced to disbursements as its primary purpose and measure of success.

(c) Relying on local capacity must be approached with carefulness:

Developing, and promoting the use of, local technical capacity is a necessary and worthwhile objective.
However, relying too heavily on local capacity in a context where such capacity is a scarce commodity can
compromise the performance of an operation from the outset. The benefits of external assistance may often
be overrated. However, as evidenced by the case of MDDP, putting the responsibility for work on
decentralization and local government reform almost exclusively in the hands of local experts with virtually
no prior exposure to these concepts outside the Soviet environment, was an undertaking that carried a high
risk of more modest than expected results.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments were received from the Government of Georgia and are attached below.

The contribution provided by MPICC and MDF, the two Implementing Agencies, is included in Annex 8.




                                                     - 17 -

- 18 -

- 19 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                             - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. To establish within participating districts                              Only partially achieved as most of these
and cities a capacity to identify, evaluate and                             functions were taken over by the MDF (with
finance priority investments.                                               support from the MPICC) or had to be
                                                                            performed by consultants.

2. To establish within the participating                                    Only partially achieved as (a) most of these
districts and cities a capacity to evaluate (as                             functions were taken over by the MDF [with
part of their budget management process), to                                support from the MPICC]; and (b) several
incur, and to repay debt.                                                   municipalities defaulted on the loan
                                                                            repayments to the MDF.

3. To establish a viable financing                                          Reasonably well achieved as demonstrated
mechanism through the MDF to support local                                  by the continuing operation of the MDF as the
investments.                                                                implementing agency of the MDDP II.

4. To support further development of the                                    Only partially achieved, but largely for
legislative framework necessary for                                         reasons beyond the control of the project.
participating districts and cities to meet the
above objectives.




Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. The presentation and execution of annual                                 Generally accomplished
budgets, following a format to be provided by
the MDDP (involving both the MPICC and the
MDF as responsible executing agencies) in
line with government budget policies.


2. Quality of investment proposals presented                                Provision of quality standards in the MDF OM
to the MDF for financing. Quality standards,                                did not lead to better quality of proposals.
for example cash flow analysis, rate of
returns and technical feasibility will be
defined in an Operational Manual to be
provided to all eligible borrowers.


3. Timely approval and execution of                                         Not systematically assessed and monitored
investments funded by the MDF measured in                                   as an indicator.
months from receipt of initial proposal to
signature of contract and time elapsed
between physical progress on investments
and disbursements.


4. Adherence to cost recovery targets for                                   Not followed up systematically as direct link
each subproject as agreed in the FARP and                                   between FARPs and MDF investments was
supported by the projected and agreed cash                                  loosened after the MTR.
flow of such investment.


5. Operating a well designed MIS at the                                     Financial management of investment porfolio
MDF tracking each sub-loan according to                                     by the MDF is considered satisfactory.
principles agreed between the MDDP and the
World Bank.


1 End of project




                                                         - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              Appraisal           Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                               Estimate             Estimate             Appraisal
                             Component                                       US$ million           US$ million
Institutional Development                                                          5.10                   3.50                   70
Physical Investments                                                              18.50                 20.00                   108

Total Baseline Cost                                                               23.60                 23.50
  Physical Contingencies                                                           1.40
  Price Contingencies                                                              1.10
                                Total Project Costs                               26.10                 23.50
                       Total Financing Required                                   26.10                 23.50

Note 1: Project cost actuals and appraisal percentages do not reflect: (a) the fluctuation of the SDR vis-a-vis the US Dollar
between 1997 and 2003 (1997: XDR 1.0 = USD 1.38; 2003: XDR 1.0 = USD 1.29). Credit disbursements amounted to 99.8%
of the IDA credit, and (b) the depreciation of the Lari, the Georgian currency (GEL), vis-a-vis the US Dollar (1997: USD 1.0 =
GEL 1.4; 2003: USD 1.0 = GEL 2.2).




Due to the nature of the MDDP which would identify, appraise and implement investment sub-projects on a
rolling basis, no detailed procurement plan could be established at appraisal.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          1
                                                              Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                     ICB                 NCB                        2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                     Other
1. Works                                     1.98                15.05                 0.08               0.00              17.11
                                            (1.55)               (12.05)              (0.07)             (0.00)            (13.67)
2. Goods                                     0.72                 0.00                 0.87               0.00               1.59
                                            (0.57)               (0.00)               (0.72)             (0.00)             (1.29)
3. Services                                  0.00                 0.00                 2.61               0.00               2.61
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)               (2.60)             (0.00)             (2.60)
4. Miscellaneous                             0.00                 0.00                 1.90               0.00               1.90
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)               (1.90)             (0.00)             (1.90)
5. Miscellaneous                             0.00                 0.00                 0.26               0.00               0.26
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                             0.00                 0.00                 0.00               0.00               0.00
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)
    Total                                    2.69                15.05                 5.72               0.00              23.46
                                            (2.12)               (12.05)              (5.29)             (0.00)            (19.46)

 1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
    of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
    managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                              - 22 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                           Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                     Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA            Govt.        CoF.           IDA       Govt.        CoF.       IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Institutional Development       4.60           1.10         0.00          3.40        0.10        0.00       73.9   9.1     0.0
Physical Investments            16.30          4.10         0.00          16.10       3.90        0.00       98.8   95.1    0.0

Total                           20.90          5.20                       19.50       4.00                   93.3   76.9


  Note 1: The SAR indicated than an additional USD 2.00 million in co-financing was being sought from other donors.
  However, such co-financing did not materialize.

  Note 2: The percentages reflect the fluctuations of the SDR vis-a-vis the USD between 1997 and 2003.
  (Jun 1997: XDR 1.0 = USD 1.39; Dec 1997: XDR 1.0 = USD 1.35; Dec 1998 XDR 1.0 = USDR 1.40; Dec 1999: XDR 1.0 =
  USD 1.37 ; Dec 2000 XDR 1.0 = USD 1.29;
  Dec 2001: XDR 1.0 = USD 1.26) ; Dec 2002: XDR 1.0 = USD 1.34; Mar 2003: XDR 1.0 = USD 1.37).
   Figures in brackets show the USD equivalent calculated at the June 1997 XDR/USD exchange rate.




                                                              - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Because the MDDP was designed as a fund-type operation, no ERR or NPV could be calculated for
specific projects at appraisal. However, in accordance with the eligibility criteria for MDF financing that
were stipulated in the the MDF OM, all proposed investments had to complete a cost benefit analysis and
show an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 12%, or if not applicable, to meet other specifically
agreed criteria.




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/15/97
              Identification


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/25/97                  5    1 URBAN MANAGEMENT
              Appraisal                      SPECIALIST;
                                             1 INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             1 PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             1 FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             1 TECHNICAL
                                             SPECIALIST

              06/20/97                       NEGOTIATIONS TEAM
              Negotiations

 Supervision
              08/02/1997                3    1 URBAN MANAGEMENT               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             1 INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             1 OPERATIONS
                                             ASSISTANT

              10/17/1997                6    1 URBAN MANAGEMENT               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             1 INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             2 FINANCIAL ANALYSTS;
                                             1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT;
                                             1 ENGINEER

              02/26/1998                4    1 URBAN MANAGEMENT               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             1 INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             1 FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT

              07/06/1998                5    2 URBAN MANAGEMENT               S               S
                                             SPECIALISTS;
                                             1 FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             1 INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST;



                                              - 25 -

                           1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT

      11/17/1998         4 1 URBAN MANAGEMENT         S    S
                           SPECIALIST;
                           1 URBAN PLANNER;
                           1 FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                           1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT

      04/29/1999         3 1 URBAN MANAGEMENT         S    S
                           SPECIALIST;
                           1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT;
                           1 PROCUREMENT
                           SPECIALIST

      11/19/1999         6 1 URBAN MANAGEMENT         U    S
      Mid-Term Review      SPECIALIST;
                           1 URBAN SECTOR LEADER;
                           1 FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                           1 PROCUREMENT
                           SPECIALIST;
                           2 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT

      03/17/2000         4 2 URBAN MANAGEMENT         U    S
                           SPECIALISTS;
                           1 FINANCIAL SPECIALIST;
                           1 ENGINEER

      06/17/2000         3 1 URBAN MANAGEMENT         S    S
                           SPECIALIST;
                           1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT;
                           1 FINANCIAL ANALYST

      09/15/2000         1 1 FINANCIAL SPECIALIST     S    S

      02/02/2001         2 1 URBAN MANAGEMENT         S    S
                           SPECIALIST;
                           1 FINANCIAL ANALYST

      12/14/2001         3 1 URBAN MANAGMENT          S    S
                           SPECIALIST;
                           1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT;
                           1 FINANCIAL ANALYST

      05/04/2002         2 1 URBAN MANAGEMENT         S    S
                           SPECIALIST;
                           1 OPERATIONS ASSISTANT

      10/12/2002         4 3 URBAN MANAGEMENT         S    S
                           SPECIALISTS;
                           1 URBAN PLANNER


ICR



                           - 26 -

               3/29/2003              2     1 URBAN                           S    S
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST;
                                            1 SENIOR
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           59.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                        509.1
  ICR
  Total                                                              568.3




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Municipal Policy Note, EC4MS, September 1996
2.   Municipal Development Agreements with participating municipalities
3.   Baseline Assessment for Georgia Local Government Program, USAID, 2001
4.   MDF Periodic Procurement Management Reports




                                            - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Contribution by Implementing Agencies


      In the years directly following its independence, Georgia has suffered one of the sharpest economic
      declines of all the FSU states. With an economy under severe stress and an erosion in public
      confidence, physical infrastructure and municipal services have been neglected and were
      deteriorating rapidly. While trying to cope with the existing situation, the municipal sector
      nevertheless operated largely under the organizational and policy structure of earlier days.

      The government of Georgia focused on economic revival in early 1994 and arrested contraction in
      trade and economic activity. Process of building the new state, started in 1995, has created political
      and socio-economic background for the rehabilitation of the municipal sector.

      The idea behind the project was to support the initial stage of Georgia's decentralization process,
      which aimed at gradually shifting responsibility and accountability to municipalities for the
      delivery and maintenance of the urban services, by helping to improve their organizational,
      management and financial base. Originally the project development objectives were:
      (i)      Assisting the decentralization process at the central and local government level;
      (ii)     Promoting an improvement of financial and administrative management as well as
               municipal investment program;
      (iii)    Supporting urgent local investments; and
      (iv)     Generating employment opportunities.

      It must be mentioned that MDDP was drafted and started as the project to facilitate the
      implementation of the priorities and activities outlined in the State Program for Municipal
      Development 1. Respectively, MDDP objectives were set according to the priorities of the State
      Program, based on the then existing problems and developments in the area of local democracy and
      management.

      In November 1999 during the mid-term review Bank and GoG reassessed the original project
      objectives. The parties agreed that the project was too ambitious and complicated. In order to
      reduce complexity of the original project design and scope by focusing on its principal purpose and
      to meet the most critical concerns Bank recommended narrowing and focusing of the objectives as
      follows:
          to establish within participating districts and cities a capacity to identify, evaluate and finance
           priority investments
          to establish within the participating districts and cities a capacity to evaluate (as part of their
           budget management process), to incur and repay debt
          to establish a viable financing mechanism through the MDF to support local investments
          to support further development of the legislative framework necessary for participating
           districts and cities to meet the above objectives

      The original design of the project was mainly appropriate was for the institutional and material
      context of Georgia and adequate for achieving its objectives. At the same time, the original design
      envisaged that project will be implemented in 12 selected municipalities and there was no freedom
      of choice for the PIUs. Project implementation revealed that that probably was not the best idea,
      because not all the municipalities had the required debt capacity. This shortcoming of the original
      design has been considered during the preparation of the MDDP II and there are no pre-selected



                                                    - 31 -

municipalities  prospective beneficiary municipalities should compete for the loans and there is no
limit on the number of municipalities that would receive the financial support and/or technical
assistance.

In general, the realization of MDDP created a favorable framework for supporting the
implementation the State Program for Municipal Development 1 and were created essential
fundamentals for developing and further improvement of several components of municipal
management.

The work towards assessment of the existing management practices in 12 participating MDDP
municipalities began in MPICC already in 1997 by starting to study the foreign experience in this
field, also the specific charachteristics of Georgia that laid a foundation to define the principles of
Municipal Audit (MA).

The main objective of MA was to put a precise, comprehensive and fair diagnosis of the situation
existing in municipal management sphere, assess its capacities towards implementing institutional
reforms aimed at rehabilitating financial and managerial standing of the municipalities. All this
made it possible to get a base of          preliminary   data, also relative analytical materials by
generalizing of which      prospects for further development of the 12 municipalities         and the
mechanisms for their implementation were proposed .

Within MDDP, the MPICC was the first organization in Georgia that undertook Municipal Audit
as a specific, new form of auditorial work. MA encompassed almost all the aspects of activities of
rayons (districts) and city management units (municipalities) of Georgia - general management,
financial management, administrative management, public service delivery, coordination of
social-economic development etc.

On the basis of identified problems in municipal sphere the following main directions towards the
most urgent activities were defined: legal provision for local self-governance, social-economic
support, provision for municipal staff and organization, support of NGO programs and
informational provision. Hereby it should be noted that Municipal Development and
Decentralization Project was developed based on the of State Program (SPMD). MDDP was one
of the parts of SPMD, its compressed model that supplemented it and strenghthened its
performance through strong financial means. Therefore from the very beginning of the project
much importance was attached to identifying the priorities common to MDDP and SPMD and
their combined implementation in order to get maximum results.

After conducting audit work         resulting in getting a complete picture about municipalities'
administrative, financial and technical systems, a Municipal Development Agreement (MDA) was
signed with 12 municipalities. MDA is a contract, legal framework setting the responsibilities of
MPICC and municipality.

Municipal Development Agreement (MDA), signed with 12 municipalities, proposed the
preparation of Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plan (FARP).

FARPs served as original step of MDDP implementation, because it was elaborated considering
the recommendations of audit reports and provided the ways to overcome the problems in different
spheres of municipal management (such as, local revenue mobilization, effective application of
human resources, improving the quality of utility services etc.).


                                             - 32 -

Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plan was developed as a 2-year development program
that focused on all the opportunities that the World Bank Project would provide. Since MDDP was
established as an inevitable part of State Program, FARP was worked out through coordinating
these two programs and combining their common priorities.

FARP consisted of three parts:
   Financial Rehabilitation Plan envisaged the activities aiming at improving financial standing,
    mainly through mobilization of local resources, searching options to attract additional
    sources, establishing modern standards of financial management.

   Administrative Rehabilitation Plan set the activities in order to improve administrative and
    human resources management, work out optimal models for better organization structure.

   Technical Rehabilitation Plan aimed at improving the effectivens and quality of public
    services.

Considering the several components and directions of MDDP implementation, the results can be
summarized according to these components below.

The first project linked demonstrable improvements in local government performance to access to
the investment financing. Under the MDDP I, local governments had to first identify feasible
investments and then demonstrate their capacity to repay the funds borrowed. The latter, in turn,
required improved revenue collection, as well as better budgeting and financial management. As a
result the cumulative debt capacity of the 12 participating LGs increased about 2.5 times between
1998 and 2000, or by GEL 21 million. Budgetary income likewise increased by 30% for the same
period. Concurrently, budgetary expenditure was trimmed by eliminating redundant or ineffective
staff positions, transforming administrative units into financially autonomous entities, and
introducing competitive procurement procedures. Almost all funds under the MDDP I have been
fully disbursed.

Below is presented the summary table showing additional annual incomes obtained through the
implementation of activities set in FARPs.




                                            - 33 -

                                                                                     The rate of the
                                   Additional annual incomes, received by          annual growth in
           Municipality             activities planned in FARP (in GEL)*          comparison with the
                                                                                  FARP baseline (%)*
1.              Gori                                 402,646                               28%
 2.            Batumi                            1,255,409                               38%
 3.             Telavi                            649.349                               37.5%
 4.             Tbilisi                          6,824,389                              5.5%
 5.          Akhalsikhe                           132,441                               25.5%
 6.          Ambrolauri                           692,072                                42%
 7.            Rustavi                            128,464                               6.5%
 8.           Kazbegi                              63,649                                13%
 9.            Zugdidi                            560,965                                14%
10.              Poti                             210,675                                 8%
11.            Kutaisi                           1,000,586                               18%
12.           Ozurgeti                             9,000                                   4%



  *The financial results presented in the table are the averaged results for years 1998-2001, to get
  an average figure vs. 1997.

  Although MDDP was not initially intended to focus on, among other tasks, on legal acts, however,
  it contributed to the legal framework development and raising awareness of municipal personnel
  related to this legal base.

  Under MDDP there were held several training-seminars that introduced participating
  municipalities to the developments in legislation, as well as some initiatives taken by the 12 LGs to
  develop local legislature. The subjects of these seminars were, among others: the legal basics of
  local self-governance, taxation and budgetary powers.

  Supporting urgent local investments

  MDF has made investments totaling GEL 38.1 million. The activity of the Fund represents a
  considerable step made towards improvement of municipal infrastructure in the country,
  particularly considering the actual outputs expressed in terms of development of the road
  infrastructure, improved operation of the water supply systems, enhanced quality of services
  provided by the educational and health institutions and generation of employment opportunities.
  Average duration of the investment projects implemented in was 4 months, average volume  GEL
  450 thousand.

  The Municipal Development Fund has implemented 89 projects in 11 cities of Georgia.
  Diversification of the investment portfolio of the Fund by the sectors is as follows:

  Roads
  Road infrastructure improvement projects implemented by the Municipal Development Fund
  envisaged rehabilitation of about 900 thousand m2 of the road pavement, with the total length of
  36.000 m., which has significantly contributed to the city internal road improvement countrywide.


                                              - 34 -

The Projects implemented by the Municipal Development Fund will serve around 150 thousand
vehicles daily.

The investment portfolio of the Municipal Development Fund includes 57 road infrastructure
improvement projects with the total cost of GEL 20, 3 million.

Water Supply
Considering the problems currently existing in Georgia in this sector, improvement of water supply
systems and sanitation is considered as one of the priorities of the Municipal Development Fund.
To this end the MDF activities cover 19 Projects, which have improved water supply to 200
thousand households. These investments have resulted in significant decrease of water losses,
increase of system efficiency, and substantial solution of the water supply problem in the
municipalities.

Educational and Healthcare Facilities
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR - page 11), rehabilitation of these facilities was one
of priority objectives of the Municipal Development Fund. For this purpose heating systems were
installed in 51 secondary schools of Tbilisi City, and a Secondary School was constructed in
Ambrolauri. The above Projects are aimed at improving educational and work conditions for 70
thousand pupils and 3 thousand teachers.

Project implementation in the Health Sector has resulted in improvement in healthcare provision
conditions in three hospitals (1 new hospital has been constructed and 2 rehabilitated) with annual
capacity of 30 thousand patients. In total GEL 4.6 million was invested in such projects.

Urban Transport
The Municipal Development Fund has made investments targeted at improving urban transport
infrastructure. From these the Project for Improvement of Electric Transport in Tbilisi should be
noted. The Project will promote the safe and unhampered operation of the City Metro, serving 110
million passengers annually. These Projects will significantly improve the operation of the Tbilisi
City urban transport infrastructure. The volume of investments made in urban transport
infrastructure amounts to GEL 1.5 million.

Sanitation and Solid Waste Management
Two projects implemented in this sector in Batumi - Construction of the 450 m landfill retaining
wall on the river Chorokhi, which has solved the Black Sea pollution problem in Adjara Region;
and purchase of ten garbage collecting vehicles. Total volume of investments amounts to GEL 1.1
million.

City Illumination System
For the purpose of improving the city illumination the Fund has implemented 2 projects, with the
total cost of GEL 797 thousand. Project implementation resulted in introducing new system of
lighting, which will save the City budget GEL 280 thousand annually.

The Fund will further support the improvement of Local Governments' and Self-government
bodies' performance through undertaking their institutional development supporting measures, as
well as priority investment projects required for urban infrastructure development.




                                           - 35 -

Generating employment opportunities.

MDF activities have very important external effects in terms of combating problem of
unemployment in the country. The activities of the Municipal Development Fund have significantly
promoted successful solution of poverty eradication problem in the country. Within 89 investment
projects implemented by the 47 Companies collaborating with the Fund and, about 5 thousand
individuals were employed in short-term basis.

Besides, approximately 200 firms has participated in the MDF biddings. As a result, firms
significantly improved their management and reporting skills and now are closer to international
standards.

The most visible achievements of Institutional Development under MDDP 1 can be presented in 5
main components:

(1) Improved mobilization of local revenues and financial planning;

(2) Improved administrative and human resource management including optimization of
    organization structure and raised qualification and knowledge of municipal personnel through a
    series of several training-seminars;

(3) Improved transparency of municipal management and increased level of public participation in
    it.

(4) Establishment of management-oriented information systems facilitating the simplification of
    administrative procedures and enabling to get, process, store and transmit information on
    computers;

(5) Improved level of public services.

The training-seminars organized by the MPICC in accordance with the priorities envisaged in the
FARPs and Technical Assistance Plans of the municipalities must be mentioned. In order to
identify training needs, preliminary meetings and sessions were held with the staff of each
municipality. At these meetings were discussed the necessity of training-seminars and the subjects
which need to be more focused on. Then these training needs for individual municipalities were
reflected in Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plans. As the municipal development was
a new process to all the municipalities, the subjects on which trainings were requested were quite
the same. But there were differences as well; for example, Tbilisi and Batumi municipalities
requested holding seminars in procurement and tender.

MDF physical investments had very high social impact. First of all, it increased the public trust in
the local authorities, e.g. In Ambrolauri secondary school that was destroyed during the 1991
earthquake was not repaired during the years and for the people that was the vivid example of the
start of rebuilding the state after years of economic decline and stagnation.

The implemented projects restored and/or improved the delivery of the basic public services to the
population, e.g. Because of the existing hospital building deterioration (only OB department was
functional), Kazbegi population almost lacked the access to the healthcare facilities. It should be
mentioned that this mountainous region is isolated from the rest of the Georgia during the winter


                                              - 36 -

months and only the choice was to go to Russian city, Vladicavkaz. Today the new hospital is
delivering all basic healthcare services to the population.

Population in Poti and Telavi was receiving the water only a few (1-2) days a week. Today, they
have a scheduled, but daily, supply of water.

Implementation of the projects by the MDF achieved the result that was not envisaged originally.
This was the support of the private infrastructure performance as a results of improved physical
infrastructure, e.g. after the road rehabilitation works of Didube-Gldani-Didi Digomi in Tbilisi,
several private shops, a hotel and restaurants were opened. Same happened in Rustavi  15 new
private shops were opened after the rehabilitation of local roads.

The realization of MDDP helped the creation of the institutional framework necessary for further
development of municipal sector in Georgia. Thus its results are in correspondence with the
objectives set in the First Stage of the State Program for Municipal Development.

At the time of the project completion results of the MDF investments were very significant. As it
was mentioned above, MDF investments increased the public trust in the Federal and Local
governments.

The quantifiable benefits of MPICC were mostly related with the increased local incomes and were
presented above.

As for MDF physical investments, several projects had specific quantifiable economic impact. For
example, two projects implemented for improving the city illumination, with the total cost of GEL
797 thousand, resulted in introducing new system of lighting, which will save the City budget GEL
280 thousand annually, i.e. project will have the return of investment in less than 3 years.

World Bank's and Government's commitment to the project positively affected the project
implementation.

At the same time, it should be mentioned, that on the initial stage the new approach of the MDF, as
World Bank PIU providing not grants, but loans (though the part of the project cost was provide as
a grant) created the confusion among the municipalities, that itself resulted in problems with the
counterpart financing. It should be noted that MDF successfully solved this problem and project
was implemented timely.

Although the institutional framework for municipal development was formed under MDDP 1,
however, in order to provide for the further strengthening of the results achieved i.e. make the
results further sustainable, it would be necessary to resume working with the local government
entities in several issues of the institutional component, including further supporting the
development of sustainable, effective system of trainings; facilitating a more comprehensive
application of information systems in daily practice; providing information and incentives (in
several forms) to municipalities to help them gain more experience on several matters of municipal
management to then apply the knowledge gained effectively to work etc.

One of the most important aims of the Municipal Development and Decentralization Project was to
create self-sustainable financial institution, dedicated to support local self governments on on-going
basis. At the moment we can say tat this aim is already achieved.


                                              - 37 -

   From January 2002 MDF finances its own operating expenses and is prepared to invest own
    funds in municipal investment Projects.
   MDF own funds are additional source of financing MDDP II.
   Overall financial stance of MDF is improving with high rates and this trend is forecasted to
    persist in future. Diagrams below present this progress.

As for sustainability of the physical investments made, MDF was closely monitoring and took the
responsibility for the state of the physical investments during the defects liability period, when the
contractors were responsible for the proper functioning of roads, water supply systems, etc. Only
after the completion of the defects liability period MDF was transferring the physical investments
to the beneficiary municipalities. It should be mentioned that MDF included the clause on the
requirement of the maintenance and current repairs' expenses to be included in the local budgets.

So far the state of the physical investments made is satisfactory and municipalities are fulfilling
their obligations to maintain physical state of the facilities.

The assessment of MPICC's performance can be presented as follows:




                                             - 38 -

  HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory

  Preparatory Work (Audit, sociological surveys, etc)


  HS     S        U             HU

  Internal Financial Management and Accounting



  HS     S        U             HU

  Procurement

  HS S            U            HU

  Drafting of MDA (including FARPs)


  HS      S        U            HU

  Implementation of FARPs:
            Financial Management


  HS       S        U          HU
            Administrative and Human Resource Management


  HS       S        U          HU
            Transparency of Management and Public Participation


  HS       S       U           HU
            Informational Management


  HS      S        U           HU
            Training-seminars



  HS       S       U           HU



The main results achieved during the MDDP 1 institutional component were achieved largely
through the activities carried out in the participating municipalities. Thus, the comprehensive
results (either quantifiable or non-quantifiable) are given in the annexes.




                                             - 39 -

As for investment part the municipalities performance was satisfactory. Of 12 participating
municipalities only 1  Ozurgeti - experienced delays in repayments, all other municipalities were
making interest + principal repayments timely. Currently issue is resolved, Ozurgeti already started
payments and in nearest 2-3 months they will return to schedule.

In conclusion, Georgian government would like to thank the World Bank for the timely preparation
of the original project and prompt feedback on all the subsequent stages of the project
implementation.

Long-term Strategy of the Municipal Development Fund

One of the main objectives of the Municipal Development and Decentralization Project was to
establish MDF as a sustainable financial institution  revolving fund, which would be focused
upon the long-term socio-economic and institutional support to Local Self-governments and the
decentralization process in general.

The outputs of the past activities should be regarded as significant steps made towards the above
goals. Analysis of the Municipal Development Fund activities for the years 2001-2002 brings up
rather optimistic prospects for the long-term development of the Fund. Investments made by the
Fund in 2001 total to GEL 17.1 million, showing nine-fold increase in comparison with the
preceding year figure. The total Investments for the 2002 amount to GEL 17.5 million.

The present period is notable for creation of necessary prerequisites for significant improvement of
the Fund's financial status. Extremely positive dynamics of the Fund's financial indicators was
observable in 2001-2002. Substantial increase of the Fund's assets, which was mainly induced by
the growth of loan portfolio, is the result of the increase in investment activities.

During the aforementioned period the assets of the Fund have increased twelve-fold and reached
GEL 16.2 million. This growth was mainly due to the increase in sources of funds.

Current assets of the MDF have increased fifteen-fold and amounted to GEL 1.6 million, while the
Fund's loan portfolio within the same period has grown twelve-fold totaling to GEL 15 million.
Qualitative growth of the loan portfolio is remarkable as well.

Substantial increase in the MDF revenues was observed in 2001. The above-stated figure for the
year 2001 amounted to GEL 544 thousand, whereas for the year 2002 it already was  GEL
2.069.300. Further increase in the Fund's operating income should also be presumable in view of
current rate of growth of the loan portfolio. Qualitative growth of the loan portfolio is notable as
well. The volume of bad debts for the MDF loans in 2002 was very low and constituted 1.5 % of
the loan portfolio, which is noticeably less than the estimated expected figure. The above indicates
acceleration of the decentralization process and enhancement of fiscal accountability of the local
governments, which renders the prospects for the long-term development of the Fund even more
optimistic.

The MDF has created important prerequisites for its establishment as a sustainable financial
institution. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of the Fund's financial activities for the years
2001-2002 demonstrates that one of the principal objectives of the Municipal Development and
Decentralization Project  establishment of the Fund, a sound financial institution operating as a
revolving fund  is already achieved.


                                             - 40 -

The Municipal Development Fund's long-term development strategy envisages qualitative and
quantitative growth of MDF investments and efficient management of the Fund's financial assets
that guarantees sound and sustainable development. Drastic actions of the Fund have resulted in
the increased number of Clients (Municipalities) willing to closely cooperate with the Municipal
Development Fund.

By the Municipal Development Fund Georgia has acquired a financial institution, which will be
permanently focused on the development of municipal infrastructure countrywide and supporting
the increasing role of the Local Governments and Self-governments in the economic growth.




                                         - 41 -

                             MDDP Results - Institutional Component (ICR Annex)



         Problem                        Input                        Output                       Result
Low efficiency of           -Definition and inclusion     Improved financial           -Annual average growth of
municipal financial         of activities for financial   management in MDDP           10-15% of financial
management                  management in MDA             participating municipalities revenues in MDDP
                            (Municipal Development                                     participating municipalities
                            Agreement)
                                                                                       -Improvement of financial
                            -Conduction of trainings                                   accounting
                            for municipal personnel in
                            financial management                                       -Drafting and introduction
                                                                                       of a new reporting format
                            -Publication of materials in                               to central financial organs
                            information bulletins by
                            MPICC covering various                                     -More qualified municipal
                            experiences of financial                                   financial personnel
                            management
Low level of public         -Definition and inclusion of Extension of openness in      -Organizing systematic
participation in municipal activities for improving the municipal management,          meetings of municipal
management                  transparency of municipal     transparency improvement     administration with
                            affairs and getting a more                                 population
                            free access for citizens to
                            information into MDA                                       -Publication of annual
                                                                                       municipal budgets in local
                            -Explanations of legislative                               mass-media
                            base on public participation
                            in local management to                                     -Getting the population
                            municipal personnel                                        better informed on local
                                                                                       management issues
                            -Organizing public
                            sociological surveys                                       -Improvement of their
                            regarding priority                                         awareness of participation
                            investments in MDDP                                        in local management by
                            participating municipalities                               public

                            -Organizing
                            training-seminars and
                            consulting activities for
                            municipal personnel on the
                            necessity and advantages of
                            public participation in
                            municipal management
Low efficiency of           -Analysis and assessment of Provision of improved          -Improvement of collection
municipal service provision the situation in municipal    municipal services to        of municipal utility service
                            service provision field and   population,                  fees in MDDP participating
                            setting the improvement       Restructured water utility   municipalities
                            activities in Municipal       enterprises in 2 pilot
                            Audit Reports and FARPs       municipalities               -Increase of budgetary item
                                                                                       for service provision by
                            - Restructure of municipal                                 decreasing administrative
                            enterprises in 2 pilot                                     costs



                                                       - 42 -

                       municipalities (Rustavi and
                       Poti) together with the                                  -Introduction of foreign
                       British consulting firm                                  experience to municipal
                       Severn Trent                                             service providing staff and
                                                                                qualification upgrade
                       -Organizing a series of
                       trainings on urban
                       management improvement

                       -Elaboration of
                       methodological and
                       recommendation materials
                       on municipal service
                       improvement and their
                       publication in MPICC's
                       information bulletins
Low qualification of   -Organizing a series of     More qualified municipal     -Clarification of the ways
municipal personnel    training-seminars for       personnel                    for better performance of
                       municipal personnel                                      obligations of municipal
                                                                                personnel
                       -Implementation of
                       Training of Local Trainers                               -Municipal personnel's
                       Assignment together with                                 more in-depth
                       the French consultancy firm                              understanding of and
                       BDPA                                                     higher qualification in the
                                                                                fields of financial, human
                       -Systematic publication of                               resource, urban
                       MPICC's information                                      management and
                       bulletins on the actual                                  development strategy
                       issues of municipal
                       development and their                                    -7 local trainer-consultants
                       distribution to                                          trained according to
                       municipalities                                           modern standards and 121
                                                                                municipal trainers trained
                                                                                by them
Lack of municipal      -Computerization of         Established information      -Better technical
information systems    MDDP participating          networks in MDDP             equipments in
                       municipalities              participating municipalities municipalities

                       -Organizing a series of                                  -Better qualification of
                       trainings on the formation                               municipal information staff
                       and functioning of
                       information systems and
                       their improvement




                                                - 43 -

                            Rehabilitation of Water Supply and Sewerage Systems in Tbilisi



     Problem Statement          Inputs                       Outputs                        Results and Outcomes
Faecal substances from        Number of projects: 1            1.          Replacement of   Faecal substances do not
adjacent area were flowing    Project title: Tbilisi Sea       the damaged concrete,        flow into the Tbilisi Sea
into `Tbilisi Sea', source of Effluent Project                 asbestos cement and          from the adjacent area as
potable water for most of      Project Cost  GEL              ceramic pipes with plastic   they are directed and
the inhabitants of the city    266,427.81                      d=300mm. 576 m. length       self-flowing to a collector.
of Tbilisi; This was due to                                    pipes.
depreciated pumping                                            2.          Installation of  Project implementation
station and pipes as well as                                   the new collector by using   has saved 30-40 thousand
unavailability of electricity                                  d=200mm. 655m. length,       kwt. power monthly and
for pumping.                                                   d=300mm. 917m. length,       pumping station
                                                               and d=350mm. 691 m.          maintenance costs which
                                                               length plastic pipes.        is about GEL 70,000
                                                               3.          Installation of  annually .
                                                               17m. depth discharge
                                                               borehole with appropriate
                                                               processing plants.
                                                               4.          Rehabilitation
                                                               of the old and installation
                                                               of the new inspection wells
                                                               - 66 pieces  along the full
                                                               length of the routing.
        Reliability of the    Number of projects: 1          Carrying over water main       Currently the water main
        water main was poor Project title: Rehabilitation    d=500mm.  1460 m. and         is located far off the
        and it was highly     Works for Carrying-over        d=300mm.  40 m.               cemetery and its repair is
        likely to break down. Vake-Saburtalo Main Pipeline Installation of precast wells.   possible. Hence threat of
        The water main was                                                                  water contamination is
        passing under the     Project Cost  GEL 453,874.26                                 mitigated.
        cemetery and in case
        of breakdown it
        would have been very
        difficult to undertake
        repairing works.
        There was a danger of
        contamination of
        water.
        Due to dilapidated    Number of projects: 1           Installation of:              underground leakages of
        underground           Project title: Works for       Water pipeline: length        drainage and sewage
        communications        Improving Ground Water         1140m. pipe diameter          water's were reduced to
        system there was      Problem in Old Tbilisi         100-300mm.                     10% which does not
        threat of collapse of                                Sewage System: length         jeopardise safety of the
        historic (more than   Project Cost  GEL 62,5722.85 1975m. pipe diameter           buildings situated in the
        100 year old                                         100-300mm.                     area.
        buildings) and                                       Storm water inlet system -
        religious buildings in                               length  265m. pipe diameter - Elimination of the threat of
        the center of Tbilisi;                               300mm.                         the buildings' further
        underground leakages                                 Cleanout of:                   collapse through
        of drainage and                                      d=2000mm. length  400m.       rehabilitation of the
        sewage water's                                       collector;                     underground
        constituted 90% of                                   d=1000mm. length  2110 m. communications.
        natural underground                                  collector ditch.
        waters.
Water availability, quality   Number of projects: 5          Total length of replaced       Improved operation of the




                                                         - 44 -

and reliability were      Projects titles:                amortized water and sewer      sewer main; decreased
inadequate and obsolete   1.     Rehabilitation Works     system pipes is 8,561 m.       possibility of faults in the
sewage system created     for Sewer System on Akaki       Diameter of the pipes are as   sewer system causing
danger of sewage flowing  Tsereteli Avenue in Tbilisi     follows: 25, 50, 80, 100, 150, damages to the central
out on the streets and    2.     Rehabilitation Works     200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 710, avenue and mitigation of
giving rise to epidemic   for Uridia Street Water         800, 1000 mm. Sewer            threat of spreading
diseases. Danger of water Supply and Sewerage             manholes were installed using epidemic diseases.
leakages spoiling road    Networks in Tbilisi             precast concrete elements.     Possibility of road paving
paving.                   3.     Rehabilitation of                                       damage through water
                          Underground Water and                                          leakages was reduced.
                          Sewerage Lines on
                          Vazha-Pshavela Avenue in
                          Tbilisi
                          4.     Rehabilitation of
                          Underground Water and
                          Sewerage Lines on Nutsubidze
                          Street in Tbilisi
                          5.     Rehabilitation Works
                          for Water Supply Network on
                          N. Dumbadze Avenue, and
                          Davit Aghmashenebeli
                          Avenue, Rehabilitation Works
                          for Water Supply and
                          Sewerage Networks on
                          Ketevan Tsamebuli Avenue,
                          Reinstallation of the Pipeline
                          on Nutsubidze Plateau, Mark
                          "603" in Tbilisi

                           Total cost of the projects:
                           GEL 2,053,268




                                                      - 45 -

        Rehabilitation of Lighting System in Tbilisi

Problem Statement         Inputs                        Outputs                          Results and Outcomes
Lighting system was       Number of projects: 2         Total length of rehabilitated Improved quality of
damaged. Electricity      Projects titles:              and replaced wirings is        lighting. Annual O&M
and maintenance          1. Rehabilitation of           40,230 m and total number costs decreased by
costs were high          Lighting Network for           of light fixtures replaced is GEL 280,500 due to more
because of inefficient   Kakheti Highway                778 units.                     economical lighting bulbs.
light bulbs.             2. Rehabilitation of
                         Lighting Network for
                         Tsereteli Avenue
                         Total Cost: GEL 797,207.79

        Improvement of Tbilisi Metro Operating Capacity

   Problem Statement                      Inputs                      Outputs                Results and Outcomes
Tbilisi Metro served         Number of projects: 1          Rehabilitation of the central Modern telemanagement
about 90 million persons     Projects titles:               dispatcher office.             system for the power supply
in 2000. Its share in        1.         Supply of           Installation of the central    of Tbilisi Metro.
public transportation is     Equipment for Tbilisi          control device. Installation   Automated management
above 40%. 1993 fire         Metro Telemanagement           of SKADA system                system enhanced operating
destroed automatic           System                         automatic boxes in 24          capacity and passenger
management of electricity    2.         Automation of       stations. Installation of      safety as well as improved
supply to the Tbilisi        Tbilisi metro management cable communication                  operational conditions for
metro. Since than it is                                     system from the central        Metro employees. Spare
carried out manually.          Total Cost: GEL              dispatcher office to 24        parts available for carrying
Obsolete management            1,223,447.57                 stations. Supply of            out necessary maintenance
system of Tbilisi metro                                     computers for the system.      works.
reducing effectiveness of                                   Purchase of: paired rolls;
metro operation. Metro                                      cables; accumulator
equipment needed                                            batteries; rails; ties;
replacement of some                                         escalator railings; computer
spare parts of escalators,                                  equipment; light bulbs.
cars and rails. Lack of
spare parts for carrying
out maintenance works.

        Installation of Heating Systems in Tbilisi Secondary Schools

   Problem Statement                      Inputs                       Outputs               Results and Outcomes
Heating systems, which       Number of projects: 1            On the I Stage of the        Safe, environmentally
are vital to normal          Project title: Installation of   project 51 schools were      appropriate and low
education process were       Heating Systems in Tbilisi       covered, the ones            maintenance cost heating
absent at a number of        Secondary Schools                proposed by the Tbilisi      systems installed at 51
schools in Tbilisi. Some                                      Municipality. 38 new         schools in Tbilisi.
of them used wood for        Total Cost: GEL                  boiler-houses were           (beneficiaries  60,000
heating, some did not        2,793,376.19                     constructed. For the rest    pupils). About GEl 380,000
have heating at all.                                          were used the existing       saving annually on heating.
                                                              buildings. The works
                                                              implemented include:
                                                              installation of boilers,
                                                              pumps; replacement of
                                                              about 25000 heater units;
                                                              rehabilitation of
                                                              standpipes and pipelines.




                                                             - 46 -

        Rehabilitation Works for Tbilisi Traumatology Hospital

   Problem Statement                   Inputs                    Outputs               Results and Outcomes
Because of the ruinated    Number of projects: 1                                      Up-dated, improved
condition of the hospital  Project title: Rehabilitation  Rehabilitation works        clinic in service.
building, hospital area    Works for Tbilisi              included: installation of   Enhanced medical
was reduced by 900 m2.     Traumatology Hospital          partition walls,            treatment process
This significantly reduced                                plastering, installation of advantageous to the
opportunity of serving     Total Cost: GEL                floors, sanitary            medical staff and
patients.                  172,070.05                     engineering, replacement    patients.
                                                          of doors and windows,       Approximately 4,500
                                                          painting works and          persons receive
                                                          electric works              ambulatory and
                                                                                      stationery treatment at
                                                                                      the renovated hospital
                                                                                      annually.

        Refurbishment of Elevators in Apartment Houses in Tbilisi

   Problem Statement                   Inputs                    Outputs               Results and Outcomes
Elevators were not         Number of projects: 1         Refurbishment and           Improvement of living
functioning at multi-story Project title:                commissioning of 109        conditions to 12,396
buildings making lives of  Refurbishment of              elevators in the 109        citizens. Elimination of the
thousands of people        Elevators in Apartment        multistory buildings in     risk factors of physical
pitiable.                  Houses in Tbilisi             Tbilisi.                    injuries caused by the
                           Total Cost: GEL                                           operation of the amortized,
                           399,751.20                    Replacement of the          failing elevators.
                                                         elevator doors, motors,
                                                         cables, call panels, and
                                                         brake staples.

        Purchase of Vehicles for Garbage Collection and Disposal in Batumi

   Problem Statement                   Inputs                    Outputs               Results and Outcomes
Due to lack of specific    Number of projects: 1         Purchase of the             Garbage is disposed once in
equipment garbage          Project title: Purchase of    following vehicles for      2-3 days.
disposal (from 282         Vehicles for Garbage          Batumi Sanitation Urban     Improved sanitary
garbage collection points) Collection and Disposal in    Service:                    conditions.
in the town was carried    Batumi
out once in 7-10 days      Total Cost: GEL               1. Garbage collecting
which significantly        505,609.87                       vehicle A type (2
increased probability of                                    pieces)
spreading various                                        2. Garbage collecting
diseases.                                                   vehicle B type (1
                                                            piece)
                                                         3. Garbage collecting
                                                            vehicle G type (4
                                                            pieces)
                                                         4. Sludge absorbing
                                                            Machine (2 pieces)




                                                        - 47 -

        Construction of Retaining Wall in Batumi

   Problem Statement                   Inputs                    Outputs                Results and Outcomes
During the river flooding  Number of projects: 1         Construction of             The retaining wall protects
period water was washing   Project title: Construction   reinforced concrete         landfill from washing down
down the landfill into the of Retaining Wall in          retaining wall, 254 m       to Black Sea.
Black Sea.                 Batumi                        length and 11m height,
                           Total Cost: GEL               by using precast concrete
                           71,2219.89                    blocks.

        Rehabilitation of Gori Water Supply System

   Problem Statement                   Inputs                    Outputs                Results and Outcomes
Due to power outages and   Number of projects: 1         1.      Installation of the 16,000 inhabitants of river
failures in the pumping    Project title: Rehabilitation 11.118m. pipeline           Liakhvi right embankment
station and reliance on    of Gori Water Supply          routing by using            in Gori are supplied with
expensive electrical       System                        d=426mm. d=273mm.           clean water on 24-hour
power water supply to                                    and d=219mm. steel          basis. In addition to this
16,000 people is           Total Cost: GEL               pipes from the head         water supply to other
unreliable and expensive.  1,234,497.47                  works to Gori internal      locations in the town was
                                                         network.                    improved by the freed-up
                                                         2.      Installation of     water. Water supply
                                                         head works by using the     capacity of the town has
                                                         existing reservoirs with    increased by 110 l/sec
                                                         the debit of 250 l/sec,     instead of projected 80
                                                         which provides the          l/sec.
                                                         routing with 110 l/sec
                                                         capacity.                   The gravity pipeline has
                                                         3.      Fencing of the      saved 60-70 thousand
                                                         head works territory,       kwt/hr power monthly.
                                                         installation of 1 drain     Savings in money terms is
                                                         pit, construction of        in the range of GEL
                                                         watch-box and               4,800-6,400 per month.
                                                         chlorination facility with
                                                         the relevant processing
                                                         plants required for water
                                                         chlorination. Works
                                                         required for providing 0,
                                                         4 kwt power supply.
                                                         4.      Installation of 2
                                                         emergency wells, 6 drain
                                                         wells, 6 vent wells and 3
                                                         water-gauge wells; 1
                                                         piece of d=250mm. 1
                                                         piece of d=200mm. and
                                                         2 pieces of d=125mm. IX
                                                         type water meters.




                                                        - 48 -

         Rehabilitation of Telavi Water Supply System

   Problem Statement                     Inputs                   Outputs              Results and Outcomes
Only 20% of the              Number of projects: 2         Project implementation     Water is available on
population had water         Project title: Telavi Water   included two stages:       daily basis to the whole
available daily, the rest    Supply System                                            population of about
received water twice in a    Rehabilitation                Adding new headworks       30,000.
week. Water losses were                                    would result in
high. The last 2, 5          Total Cost: GEL               increased pressure in     Complete elimination of
kilometers of the existing   638,905.72                    the network and           water loss on main
main pipeline were                                         subsequent incremental    pipeline and increased
passing through the city     Phase I                       water loss. For the       water debit by 50 l/sec.
residential area, where      Installation of city bypass   purpose of releasing      Illegal connections were
the population had illegal   pipeline for eliminating      pressure and              eliminated.
connections to the           water loss.                   eliminating water loss,
distribution network. The                                  2625 m. city bypass
total debit of water         Phase II                      pipeline was installed
amounted to 70 l/sec,                                      by using d-400mm.
with about 90% (~50          Construction of three         steel pipes. 8 discharge
l/sec) of water loss falling headworks and pipelines       and vent wells were
at this section.             for increasing water debit    installed along the
                             (by 50 l/sec)                 pipeline routing.
                                                           Auxiliary facilities -
                                                           chlorination facility and
                                                           flow measuring
                                                           chamber  were
                                                           overhauled.

                                                           Stage II: Installation of
                                                           three new headworks
                                                           with the total area of 
                                                           1200m2, total debit of
                                                           50 l/sec and their
                                                           connection to the
                                                           existing main through
                                                           d-150-200mm. steel
                                                           pipes. Total length of
                                                           new pipeline  5084 m.
                                                           out of it: steel pipes
                                                           d-200mm.  840 m;
                                                           steel pipes d-150mm. 
                                                           4244 m; Installation of
                                                           15 discharges and vent
                                                           wells along the pipeline
                                                           routing.
                                                           Overhaul rehabilitation
                                                           of the watch-box.




                                                         - 49 -

        Rehabilitation of Water Supply System in Rustavi

  Problem Statement                 Inputs                      Outputs               Results and Outcomes
Water availability,      Number of projects: 3        Out of the 7 wells existing   Availability of clean potable
quality and reliability  Projects titles:             on the `old' headwork with water increased from 3 to
were inadequate and      1. Reinstallation of Water debit of 250-270 l/sec each, 12 hour/day for inhabitants
obsolete sewage system   Pipeline on Leonidze         all are operational. Two of   of I-III floors and from 0 to
was not appropriate for  Street in Rustavi            them are used to supply       5-6 hour/day for population
maintaining sound        2. Rehabilitation Works      water to Tbilisi Power        leaving above third floor;
environmental and        for Water Supply             Station, three  to Rustavi   Water fee collection
sanitary-hygienic        3. Water Metering in         main pipeline and two are     increased from 7% to 80%
conditions in the city.  Rustavi                      kept as reserve;              for metered customers.
Laboratory analysis of                                Out of 24 boreholes on
water showed that water   Total cost of the projects: `new' water pipeline 15       Improved environmental
was not meeting national                              were rehabilitated (9 were    and sanitary-hygienic
standards in several      GEL 1,324,576.07            in good condition). Capacity conditions.
components. Water losses                              of each borehole is 40 l/sec. 155.000 Rustavi population
were high.                                            Six boreholes are in reserve and the population of 20
                                                      at present;                   villages of Gardabani and
                                                                                    Marneuli Districts have
                                                       Amortized metal water        improved water supply after
                                                       pipes with various           the I stage of project
                                                       diameters were               implementation.
                                                       completely replaced with     Currently the water supply
                                                       new, modern, plastic         capacity is increased from
                                                       pipes. Among others,         300 l/sec to 1225 l/sec
                                                       pipe network in the          (excluding the capacity of
                                                       reticulation system of 7     the reserve wells).
                                                       streets, with total length   Leakages and illegal
                                                       of 8000 meters, where        connections on the main
                                                       leakages were known to       pipeline, before project
                                                       be high or there was a       implementation  over 30%.
                                                       history of bursts, were      After installation of water
                                                       replaced;                    meters  under 10%.
                                                       Five pumping stations        Laboratory analysis of water
                                                       with capacity of 450         showed that water meets
                                                       l/sec each were              national standards (E.coli
                                                       rehabilitated. Thanks to     index decreased from 43 to
                                                       continues and smooth         3 per dm3).
                                                       functioning of newly
                                                       built 110 kwt power
                                                       transformer all pumping
                                                       stations work constantly.
                                                       At the same time 800
                                                       meter of underground
                                                       electric wiring system
                                                       was replaced with over
                                                       ground wiring system. 36
                                                       supporting posts were
                                                       installed;

                                                        5 strategic (dd-500mm)
                                                       ultrasonic meters and
                                                       data-loggers were
                                                       installed on the bulk
                                                       supply system (3 at
                                                       headworks and 2 at the
                                                       two pumping stations).
                                                       18



                                                       - 50 -

dd-400mm--dd-150mm
meters and new gate
valves were installed
outside Rustavi on
existing formal and
informal off takes from
bulk supply system,
namely on main pipeline.
80
dd-100mm--dd-20mm
meters and new gate
valves were installed for
the metering of
industrial/commercial
use in Rustavi.




- 51 -

        Poti Water Supply System Rehabilitation

  Problem Statement                   Inputs                  Outputs              Results and Outcomes
The population was        Number of projects: 1       Installation of outdoor    Asbestos water pipes that
suffering from the lack   Project title: Poti Water   lighting on the territory  are very hazardous were
for water. There were     Supply System               of head works.             replaced contributing to
several wells in each of  Rehabilitation              Rehabilitation of electric improvement of hygienic
the districts and the     Total Cost: GEL             equipment on I and II      conditions.
inhabitants were using    868144,04                   pumping stations.          Currently there are water
vessels for fetching                                  Installation of strategic  taps with water running
water. Besides, some                                  metering wells.            permanently in each yard
parts of the pipeline                                 Fencing of territory with  and all inhabitants have
consisted of asbestos                                 wire fence.                access to it.
pipes.                                                Replacement of water       Potable water availability at
                                                      supply system amortized    individual apartments was
                                                      cast iron, steel and       increased from 2 hours in
                                                      asbestos cement pipes      every 2 days to 6 hour/day.
                                                      with d-110 and
                                                      d-200mm. plastic pipes,
                                                      total length  14806 m.
                                                      Installation of individual
                                                      connections from the
                                                      main to each dwelling
                                                      house and building by
                                                      using d-25mm. plastic
                                                      pipes, total length  28,
                                                      75 km.
                                                      Installation of
                                                      commercial meter wells.

        Construction and Supply of Furniture to Ambrolauri School #1

  Problem Statement                   Inputs                  Outputs              Results and Outcomes
The earthquake of 1991    Number of projects: 1       Construction of the 3      Enhanced educational
has almost completely     Project title: Construction storey modern building     process advantageous to the
destroyed the school      and Supply of Furniture     for 312 pupils on the      teachers and pupils.
building. Due to          to Ambrolauri School #1     school territory.
non-existence of the      Total Cost: GEL             Installation of sanitary   Improved school territory.
building the lessons were 972,669.01                  engineering, internal and
being conducted in                                    external power supply,
wagons.                                               external
                                                      communications.
                                                      Improvement of the
                                                      school territory.
                                                      Equipment and furniture
                                                      for the school were
                                                      purchased.




                                                      - 52 -

        Rehabilitation Works for Ambrolauri District House of Culture

  Problem Statement                     Inputs                      Outputs              Results and Outcomes
Ambrolauri District         Number of projects: 1         Ambrolauri District House     The local population has
House of Culture was        Project title: Rehabilitation of Culture is the three       at their disposition a
partially collapsing due to Works for Ambrolauri          storey brick building with    perfect place for
the damage by the           District House of Culture the total area of 2577 m2.        recreation and cultural
earthquake of 1991.                                                                     events.
                            Total Cost: GEL               Rehabilitation of the
                            339,795.08                    major part of the building
                                                          (auditorium for 334 seats,    Exhibition and

                                                          stage, dcor storage          children's dancing and

                                                          facility, auxiliary           singing circles are

                                                          facilities, make-up rooms,    functioning.

                                                          lobby, bathrooms etc.) -      Establishment of theater

                                                          Total area  1337 m2.         staff that would give
                                                                                        performances at the

                                                          The project accomplished      House of Culture is

                                                          partial restructuring of      envisaged. Concerts will

                                                          partition walls,              also be conducted at the

                                                          installation of floors,       House.

                                                          installation of water
                                                          supply, sewage, building
                                                          wiring and fire alarm
                                                          systems, plastering and
                                                          finishing of walls,
                                                          replacement of doors and
                                                          windows in the lobby and
                                                          reconstruction of interiors.

                                                          Roofing, plastering and
                                                          painting of the elevation
                                                          of the building were
                                                          replaced also.

        Rehabilitation of Kazbegi Hospital

  Problem Statement                     Inputs                      Outputs              Results and Outcomes
Existing building of the    Number of projects: 1          Accommodation of 15         Rehabilitation of the
old hospital was in the     Project title: Rehabilitation  bed General Profile         hospital has enabled the
emergency condition: the    of Kazbegi Hospital            Hospital in the building    population to undergo
heating, water supply and                                  corresponding to            treatment and receive
sewerage systems do not     Total Cost: GEL                European Standards;         qualified consultancies
function. 1/5th of the      454,235.21                     Construction of             locally;
building has been                                          single-storey utility
damaged because of the      Two storey deserted            building: for the boiler    Approximately 3,000
Fire, The only              building was developed         room, laundry and           persons receive ambulatory
department functioning in   for the purpose of             auxiliary facilities;       and stationery treatment at
the hospital is the         accommodating the              Implementation of           the renovated hospital
Maternity Department.       Hospital.                      construction-repair         annually.
                                                           works;
                                                           Installation of external
                                                           communications and
                                                           improvement works;
                                                           Building on of the attic
                                                           floor. Total area of the
                                                           hospital  936.0 m2




                                                          - 53 -

         Rehabilitation of Ozurgeti Hospital Roofing

    Problem Statement                  Inputs                     Outputs             Results and Outcomes
 Roof of Neurology and     Number of projects: 1         Installation and          Improved conditions for
 Reception Departments,    Project title: Rehabilitation antiseptization of        patients and personnel due
 Polyclinic and their      of Ozurgeti Hospital          coniferous wood rafters,  to interruption of rain water
 connecting passage of the Roofing                       posts, crossbars, sheath, leakage in the hospital.
 hospital central building                               and strake. Installation  Population of Ozurgeti and
 was obsolete and leaking  Total Cost: GEL               of roof by using shaped   its neighboring districts can
 at several places.        139,804.72                    sheet metal. Total area  receive medical services
                                                         3759,8 m2.                locally
                                                                                   About GEL 3,000 is saved
                                                                                   only for the roof
                                                                                   maintenance annually.

         Road Rehabilitation Works in Georgia

    Problem Statement                  Inputs                     Outputs             Results and Outcomes
 Damaged road paving       Number of projects: 56        Total length of roads       Rehabilitation of the
 reducing road capacity    Projects titles*: (please see rehabilitated is 33,564 m   damaged road enhanced
 and increasing air        the attachment)               with area of 622,746 m2.    the road capacity by
 pollution.                Total Cost: GEL              Apart from this the          about 20-30 %.
                           22,003,103.89                following works were
                                                        undertaken by the            Improved environmental
                                                        projects:                    conditions.
                                                        Adjusting of basalt curbs;
                                                        Installation of new basalt   Rehabilitation of
                                                        curbs;                       communications has
                                                        Laying asphalt on the road   resulted in development
                                                        pavement;                    of local infrastructure,
                                                        Removal and further          which is manifested by
                                                        reinstallation of damaged    establishment of various
                                                        sidewalks;                   type private facilities
                                                        Adjusting of strained        (i.e. shops, fuel stations,
                                                        curbs Installation of 2-3    restaurants etc.) in the
                                                        layers of the road paving;   adjacent area, therefore
                                                        Overhaul rehabilitation of   generating additional
                                                        the existing sidewalks on    revenues for the local
                                                        both sides of the street.    budget.

* Some projects are grouped by location




                                                         - 54 -

Project Titles

1.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Akhmeteli Street in Tbilisi
2.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Avlabari Street in Tbilisi
3.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Davit Aghmashenebeli Avenue in Tbilisi
4.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Ketevan Tsamebuli Avenue in Tbilisi
5.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Mtkvari Right Embankment Street in Tbilisi
6.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Mikeladze Street in Tbilisi
7.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Tsulukidze Street II Lane in Tbilisi
8.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Streets in Vazisubani 2A M/District in Tbilisi
9.     Road Rehabilitation Works for Petre Bagrationi Street in Tbilisi
10.    Road Rehabilitation Works for internal streets of Gldani Settlement in Tbilisi (9
       projects)
11.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Tsabadze, Tevdore Mgvdeli and Abastumani
       Streets in Tbilisi
12.    Road Rehabilitation Works for By-road to Nutsubidze V M/District in Tbilisi
13.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Agladze Street in Tbilisi
14.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Kakheti Lane in Tbilisi
15.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Marukhis Gmirebi Street and Tskhneti-Akhaldaba
       Connecting Street in Tbilisi
16.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Didi Dighomi II and IV M/Districts Connecting
       Street in Tbilisi
17.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Vazha-Pshavela Avenue in Tbilisi
18.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Nutsubidze Street in Tbilisi
19.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Uridia Street in Tbilisi
20.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Nodar Dumbadze Avenue in Tbilisi
21.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Didube-Didi Dighomi, Gldani Direction in Tbilisi
       (6 projects)
22.    Road Building Works for Rustavi Direction in Tbilisi (3 projects)
23.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Akaki Tsereteli Avenue in Tbilisi (6 projects)
24.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Davit Aghmashenebeli Avenue in Kutaisi (2
       projects)
25.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Rustaveli Avenue in Kutaisi
26.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Tamar Mepe Street in Kutaisi
27.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Chavchavadze Avenue in Kutaisi
28.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Asatiani Street in Kutaisi
29.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Lagidze Street in Zugdidi
30.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Rekvava Street in Poti
31.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Chavchavadze Avenue in Batumi (2 projects)
32.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Modebadze Street in Rustavi
33.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Pantsulaia Street in Rustavi
34.    Road Rehabilitation Works for Todria Street in Rustavi




                                 - 55 -

- 56 -

