Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16746-GE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GEORGIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
June 23, 1997
Municipal and Social Services Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1997)
Currency Unit    =    Lari (L)
Lari I    =    US$0.8
US$1     =    Lari 1.25
MEASUREMENT
Square feet I        0.09 Square Meter (sqm, m2)
I square mile (27,878,400 square feet)     2.588 square kilometers (km2)
I acre (43,460 square feet)    =    0.405 hectare
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Countr) Assistance Strategy
CIS         Commonwealth of Independent States
CMC           Contract Management Consultant
FARP          Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plan
FSU          Former Soviet Union
FY          Fiscal Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GoG          Government of Georgia
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Agency
IDF         Institutional Development Fund
IDP         Internally Displaced People
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IS        International Shopping
LOI         Letter of Invitation
MA          Municipal Audit
MDA           Municipal Development Agreement
MDDP           Municipal Development and Decentralization Project
MDF          Municipal Development Fund
MIRP          Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
MIS          Management Information System
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoFLB           Ministry of Finance Local Budget
MOP          Memorandum of the President
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NS          National Shopping
OM          Operational Manual
PCU          Program Coordination Unit
PIP         Priority Investment Plan
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
RPMS           Regional Policy and Management Service
SA          Special Account
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SBD          Standard Bidding Documents
SDR          Special Drawing Right
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
SPMD           State Program for Municipal Development
TA          Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
USAID          US Agency for International Development
VAT          Value Added Tax
Georgia - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President, Europe and Central Asia Region:                Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Director, Europe and Central Asia Country Department IV:       Basil Kavalsky (EC4DR)
Chief, Municipal and Social Services Division:                 Thomas A. Blinkhorn (EC4MS)
Staff:                                                         Robert Maurer (EC4MS)-Team Leader and others



i
GEORGIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND ..............................................I
A. The Country and its Recent Economic Development ..............................................1
B. Institutional Framework ..............................................3
C. Municipal Finance ..............................................5
D. Bank Experience and Strategy ..............................................7
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement ..............................................8
11. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................. 0
A. Project Genesis .............................................                                                                       10
B. Project Objectives .............................................                                                                    10
C. Project Description ............................................. 10
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS .............................................                                                             16
A. Project Costs .............................................                                                                         16
B. Project Financing ............................................                                                                      17
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ............................................                                                             19
A. Implementation Arrangements ............................................ 19
B. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision ............................................                                               21
C. Procurement ............................................ 21
D. Disbursement ............................................                                                                          26
E. Accounts and Audits ............................................                                                                   27
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............................................                                                                               30
A. Benefits ............................................                                                                               30
B. Social Impact ............................................                                                                          33
C. Project Risks ..............................................................                                                       34
VI. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS ..............................................................                                                36
A. Conditions and Agreements ..............................................................                                           36
B. Recommendations .............................................................. 37
TABLES
Table 3.1: Summary of project cost estimates by component ..............................................................     16
Table 3.2: Financing Plan (Including Taxes) ..............................................................                                        17
Table 4.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements ..............................................................                                     23
Table 4.2: Disbursement Categories - Allocation of Loan Proceeds ......................................................... 26
Table 4.3: Estimated Disbursements ..............................................................                                                 26
Table 5.1:  Short and Medium-Term  Project Risks, Likelihood, Mitigation Measures ............................. 34
Table 5.2: Long-Term  Project Risks, Likelihood, Mitigation Measures ................................................... 35



BOXES
Box 1: Country Ethnic Profile ...................................2
Box 2: Levels of Local Government ...................................4
Box 3: Contractual Methodology ..................................                                       10
Box 4: Financing Scheme ..................................                                              14
Box 5: Social Indicators ..................................                                             33
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Municipal Sector Policy Letter .38
Annex 2: Institutional Development Description .41
Annex 3: Institutional Arrangements .45
Annex 4: MDDP Cost Tables .51
Annex 5: Project Implementation Schedule .55
Annex 6: Procurement Implementation Plan .57
Annex 7: Bank Experience in Municipal Development .60
Annex 8:  Implementation Arrangements and Supervision Plan .62
Annex 9: Key Performance Indicators .64
Annex 10:  Environment Impact Assessment ..................................                             66
Annex 11:  Synopsis of Operational Manual ................................... 71
NMlAP           IDA No. 28846
This report is based on the findings of sector work and an appraisal mission which visited Georgia in May 1997.
Robert Maurer (Task Team Leader) was assisted by several teams including consultants and World Bank staff with
expertise in areas related to the project components, including: Luigi Giovine, Anna Staszewicz, Irakli Managadze
(EC4MS), Jagdish Jassal (ECAVP), Friedrich Peloshek (LEGEC), and consultant: Manzoor Rehman.
A number of Georgian officials also helped in the design and preparation of this project. Department Director: Basil
Kavalsky; Division Chief: Thomas Blinkhom. Peer Reviewers: David Vetter and Bill Dillinger (LAIPS)



iii
GEORGIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency:    Georgia Municipal Development Program Coordination Unit and
Municipal Development Fund
Beneficiaries:          Municipalities
IDA Credit Amount:      SDR 15.1 million (US$20.9 million equivalent)
Credit Terms:           35 years maturity, including a 10 year grace period, on standard IDA
terms
Commitment Fee:         0.5 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan          See Section III
Project Objectives:     The proposed project supports the initial stage of the decentralization
process aimed at shifting responsibility and accountability in terms of
delivery and maintenance of urban services to municipalities. The
project's primary objectives are:
(a) assisting the decentralization process at the central and
local government level;
(b) promoting an improvement of financial and
administrative management as well as municipal
investment program;
(c) supporting urgent local investments;
(d) generating employment opportunities
Project Description:    The proposed project would consist of the following two
components:
(a) Institutional Development of central and local
governments through: (i) implementation of a municipal
development program articulated around a Municipal
Development Agreement, a binding agreement between
the central and local government; (ii) support activities,
including T.A., training, and studies aimed at
strengthening the central government's capacity to
implement effectively the planned decentralization
program; and



iv
(b) Phvsical Investments, through the Municipal
Development Fund, encompassing the financing of
construction rehabilitation and maintenance of public
infrastructure (primary and secondary), facilities, and
services under the responsibility of local government,
including roads, drainage, lighting, water supply,
sanitation, and social, administrative, as well as cultural
facilities.
Project Benefits:          The project will support the decentralization process and promote a
more active role for municipalities. Specifically, it will:
(a) stimulate the capacity of local government to efficiently
program, finance, manage and maintain facilities and
services;
(b) facilitate improved municipal financial performance and
contribute to national development objectives by
reducing the public sector deficit; and
(c) have a favorable impact - economically and socially - on
the urban population through: (i) reduced costs and better
access to municipal services; and (ii) employment
generation.
Project Risks:            The program major risks are:
(a) inability of the Government to enact the required legal
and fiscal reforms or effectively manage the
decentralization program;
(b) unfavorable macro-economic conditions during program
execution; and
(c) failure of municipalities to implement the municipal
development programs or to reimburse their share of the
credit.
These risks are acceptable due to:
(a) the strong ownership demonstrated by the Government in
the proposed program and municipalities' participation
on a voluntary and competitive basis;
(b) the close built-in monitoring of public investment
programs; and
(c) the allocation of resources based on performance.
Public Participation:      Project preparation involved a wide range of stakeholders through
participatory workshops which sought feedback on proposed project
activities. The project will also promote strong community
participation in the local decision-making process.
Environmental Aspects:    The project has been rated as environmental screening category B.



v
Poverty Target:         Improved urban infrastructure and services will most benefit to the poor.
Considering the type of investments, the impact on the labor market,
particularly on unskilled labor force, is expected to be very positive.
Rate of Return:         When applicable superior to 12%
Estimated Project
Completion date         The project completion date is October 31, 2001
Map:                    IDA No. 28856
Project ID Number:      GE-PE-509 10



vi
Estimated Project Cost by Project Component
(US$ Million)           Foreign      Total Base
Components               Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange         Costs
1. Institutional Development          2.9        1.1     4.0            28            22
2. Municipal Investments              9.9        4.5    14.4            31             78
Total BASELINE COSTS                 12.8        5.6    18.4            31            100
Physical Contingencies                 1.0       0.4      1.4           28             8
Price Contingencies                    1.0       0.1      1.1            9             6
Total PROJECT COSTS                  14.8        6.1    20.9            29           114
(excluding local contribution)
Local Contribution                    5.2         0       5.2            0            28
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  20.0        6.1    26.1            23            142
(including local contribution)
Note:  The relation between local and foreign costs may change depending on the local inflation and
exchange rate movements.
Estimated Project Financing (Tax Included)
estimates                               (US$ Million)
Local          Foreign         Total      % of Total
IDA a/                        14.8             6.1           20.9          74
GOVERNMENT:
(a) Central                   1.1               0            1.1            4
(b) Local                     4.1               0            4.1           15
DONORS b/                                      2.0           2.0            7
Wlal                    !              8O1 28                      10
Note:        a! The amount of IDA Credit includes PPF in amount of US$0.4 million.
b/ Government is seeking US$2 million in Donor financing
Disbursements Estimates by Bank Fiscal Year (US$ million)
FY 1997    FY 1998    FY 1999    FY 2000    FY 2001           Total
IDA           0.5         4.7         7.5          5.5         2.7        20.9
Cumulative       0.5          5.2        12.7        18.2        20.9         20.9



GEORGIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.    THE COUNTRY AND ITS RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
HISTORICAL SETTING
1.1    A Painful Transition. Georgia was the first of the non-Baltic states to declare
independence from the Former Soviet Union (FSU) on April 9, 1991. Before 1991, Georgia had
a relatively prosperous economy, specializing in exports of agricultural products (almost
exclusively to the other Soviet republics), in the extraction of metals, and in the assembly of a
wide range of industrial products. Income per capita was just below 3,000 rubles (or about
US$1,600), placing Georgia in midway among the 15 former Soviet republics.
1.2   In the years directly following its independence, Georgia suffered one of the sharpest
economic declines of all the FSU states. Officially estimated GDP in 1994 was less than 15
percent of its 1989 level. Electricity consumption - often considered as a better proxy for real
GDP in transition economies - is estimated to have fallen by 55 percent in the same period. The
decline in government revenues as a percentage of GDP (the tax ratio), a consequence of the
erosion in the government's authority and ability to mobilize revenues, was even more striking.
From 30% in 1991, the tax ratio fell to 11% in 1992, and collapsed to 3.7 % in 1995. Huge
financial imbalances led to hyperinflation (at rates of up to 70% per month until the second half
of 1994) and a sharp depreciation in the value of domestic currency. In December 1993, the
Georgian coupon was worth less than I% of its value in January of the same year.
1.3    A Remarkable Turnaround. Acting against this background, the government focused
on economic management in early 1994 and arrested the contraction in trade and economic
activity. Although extensive data on the current level of economic activity is unavailable, there
are indications that Georgia's economic situation has improved significantly in recent months.
With the successful introduction of the country's new currency (the Lari, introduced on
September 25, 1995), major steps toward macroeconomics stabilization were taken and a sharp
reduction of the fiscal deficit, from 26.2% of GDP in 1993 to 4.5% in 1995, was achieved.
While the economic situation remains precarious, stabilization measures have already brought
considerable results: the monthly inflation rate fell from an average of 60 percent in the first
three quarters of 1994 to an average of 2% between October 1994 and April 1995; the inflation
rate for 1996 was 13.9%. Gross official reserves have been rebuilt and most of the bilateral debt
has been rescheduled. Moreover, substantial structural reforms (subsidies reduction, price
liberalization, civil service restructuring, fiscal administration improvement, etc.) have begun.
After four years of continuous decline, growth resumed with total GDP growing by 2.4% in 1995
and 10.5% in 1996 - a turnaround unique among transition economies.



2
1.4    Ethnic and Political Divisions. With a multi-           Box 1: Country Ethnic Profile
ethnic population of 5.4 million, the country has recently
experienced considerable political and civil strife mainly   Stretching across the Greater
,   .   ,   , .              ~~~~~~~Caucasus from the border with
due to secessionist tendencies of several ethnic groups.     Caecasua to the blcSea Gia
r *     ~~Chechnya to the Black Sea, Georgia
These tendencies have been particularly intense where        is located at the crossroads of
ethnic minorities are geo-graphically concentrated such as   Western and Eastern civilization. Its
in Ossetia and Abkhazia where these groups enjoyed a high    position as such is reflected in the
degree of autonomy in Soviet times (a similar case is that   country's history, art, cultural
of the south-western region of Adjaria which, while          sensitivity, and its ethnic diversity.
peaceful, has established several governmental institutions     In the aggregate, non ethnic
of its own). Civil conflicts, first in South Ossetia then in  Georgians comprise 29.9% of the
country's total population of 5.4
Abkhazia, resulted in more than 300,000 Internally           million. The largest ethnic groups
Displaced People (IDP), with Tbilisi alone receiving about    include: Armenians (8.1%); Russians
100,000 refugees. Since 1992, peacekeeping forces have       (6.3%); Azeris (5.7%); Ossetians
maintained stability in South Ossetia and, after more than   (3%); Greeks (1.9%); Abkhaz
two years of separatist war in Abkhazia, a cease-fire has    (I.8%); and Ukrainians (1%).
been in effect since 1994, although Georgia has not yet
regained control of the region. Civil conflicts in other countries in the Caucasus region
(Chechnya, Nagorno-Karabakh) have also indirectly added to the disruption of Georgia's
economy. However, a recent pact with South Ossetia and an apparent settlement, albeit tenuous,
in Abkhazia have contributed to greater political stability, allowing the Government to adopt a
new Constitution and implement a democratization process, make progress toward restoring law
and order, and focus attention on rebuilding the economy.
1.5    Social Crisis. The downturn in the state-controlled economy and runaway inflation until
mid-1994 have inflicted painful social costs on the population. Shrinking resources have
complicated the Government's efforts to maintain law and order and to preserve an adequate
social safety net for the poor. By 1995, GDP per capita had shrunk to US$4 10, the second
lowest level among the FSU countries, placing the majority of the Georgian population under the
official poverty line. Expenditures on health and education declined from 12 percent of GDP in
1991 to 2 percent in 1994 (although expenditures in the health sector appear to be rising again) -
a decline of over 90 percent in real terms. Life expectancy. for both men and women, has
declined in recent years, while the age-adjusted mortality rate has risen by 18 percent. Net
school enrollment has likewise fallen by 11 percent in the last three years.
1.6    There are, however, positive indications that Georgia's strong traditional family
structure has cushioned the impact of declining social services. While economic figures suggest
extreme hardship, casual observation suggests an upturn in the overall activity. The informal
sector is growing and in contrast to reports from other FSU countries, rural incomes have held up
fairly well. The area of cultivated land in 1995 significantly exceeded that of previous years and
in key cities, the traffic, the number of shops open for business, and the availability of goods in
markets indicate rapidly improving trends.
1.7    Municipal Infrastructure. With an economy under severe stress and an erosion in
public confidence, physical infrastructure and municipal services have been neglected and are
deteriorating rapidly. While trying to cope with the current situation, the municipal sector still
operates largely under the organizational and policy structure of earlier days.



3
1.8   In approximate terms, more than half (55%) of Georgia's population lives in urban
settlements. Tbilisi, the capital and largest city in the country, has a population of 1.5 million
and makes up 27 percent of the total population of Georgia and 51 percent of its urban
population. The remaining six largest urban settlements include: Kutaisi (240,000), Rustavi
(156,000), Batumi (137,000), Zugdidi (129,000), Poti (75,000) and Gori (60,000). Together with
Tbilisi, their population makes up approximately 75% of the urban population of Georgia.
While the armed conflicts of recent years have caused major changes in the geographical
distribution of the population, no reliable information on migration trends is yet available.
However, there have been two conflicting trends. It is thought that declining income levels led
to an exodus of city dwellers to rural areas. This trend was probably outweighed, however, by
the influx of the 300,000 refugees to the principal cities.
B.  INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
1.9    Present Conditions. Today, the main concern with respect to local government in
Georgia involves its inherent institutional weakness. The social turmoil, political instability and
economic crisis of the past six years have caused the central government to postpone sub-
national administrative reform and proceed - at least temporarily - with rule by decree. At
present, nearly all local government officials are appointed by the center; as a result, local
government autonomy does not exist in principle. Substantial freedom of action for these
centrally appointed local officials has existed in practice, however, because of the weakness of
the central government and its inability to maintain tight control over the various localities
1.10   The symptoms of weakness common to local government institutions in most of the FSU
are particularly acute in Georgia, because of the mutually reinforcing effects of recent economic
recession, war and general breakdown of civil order. Among the most significant of these
problems are: (a) little accountability to residents because there are no mechanisms allowing
citizens to monitor the actions of local govemment, nor is there any formal procedure to voice
civic discontent or call for the removal of poorly performing officials. Ultimately, those who
pay for municipal services, either through taxation or direct fees, have no representation in
municipal rule; (b) local officials are not bound by systematic internal regulations, but rather
only by guidelines set out by the centrally appointed official; and (c) inefficiencies in the
management of the municipality's administrative functions with overstaffing and unclear
allocation of responsibility among local officials. As a result, decision-making and
implementation are largely left to the individual initiative of municipal staff.
1.11   Departing Structure. Until recently, the structure and function of local government in
Georgia was based on provisions specified in a number of Presidential (formerly known as the
Head of State) decrees which were intended to carry the country through a transitional phase
eventually leading to local elections (tentatively scheduled for Autumn 1997 or early 1998).
From 1992 until the end of 1995, institutional adjustments in the local government sector were
aimed almost exclusively at the improvement of resource allocation and did not affect the basic
structure inherited from the Soviet period.
1.12   Among the various decrees produced by the Head of State's Office since 1993, the
Provisional Statement "About Local Management Bodies in Georgia" (Decree No. 362,
September 16, 1995) had the single biggest implication for local government in Georgia. This
decree consolidates previously uncoordinated temporary legislation into a comprehensive format



4
defining the structure, activity and competence of local management bodies. The decision was
introduced "in order to further improve the state management system, to create the basis for self-
control provided by the Georgian Constitution, to strengthen the economic basis of state
management local agencies and to carry out progressive radical economic reforms" (Article 1).
It will remain in force until the election of the local self-government bodies, whose officials will
replace today's centrally appointed figures.
1.13   Complementary regulations were   Box 2: Three Levels of local government.
adopted for specific cities or regions;
particularly, in those which have been    Lower level: includes management of settlements,
granted special status in Georgia's       villages, and towns There are about 4000 settlements in
territorial administration. Regions       Georgia;
currently enjoying special administrative
susrincludenjoyig T si, beciau    f . it saize    Medium level: includes management of districts (67 in
statusincluderall  Tbilisimpt  b e ofuntrys si total) and 13 republican cities, equivalent to the centers of
and overall impact on the country's       12 regions plus the coastal city of Poti, which enjoys
economy, Poti as a free trade zone, and   special status as the most important (and recently demili-
the Autonomous Republics of Abkhazia,   tarized) port in the country;
South Ossetia, and Adjaria (Abkhazia is
currently de facto outside of Georgia's   Higher level: includes management of regions. Georgia
jurisdiction while the latter represents a  is divided into 12 administrative regions, including
case of authorized self-determination).  Tbilisi, the autonomous Republic of Adjaria and
case of authorlzed self-determmatlon)   I Abkhazia.
1.14   Ongoing Reform. On the wave of gradual economic recovery, since the end of 1995 the
Government and the Parliament have operated toward fulfilling their specific constitutional
obligation to implement local self- government reform. Article 4.2 of the Constitution, in fact,
reads as follows: "Georgian citizens shall arrange local affairs through self-government, without
the violation of national sovereignty. The rule of establishment of local self-government bodies,
their powers and relationship with state bodies will be determined by organic law". Through the
concerted efforts of the Government's Regional Policy and Management Service (RPMS) and
the Parliament, Georgia has made considerable progress toward the establishment of the legal
and regulatory framework. Presently, the proposed new Law on Local Self-Government and
Administration (recently approved by Parliament and now ready to be countersigned by the
President) and the State Program for Municipal Development (SPMD), to be discussed and
approved by the Cabinet before the end of July, 1997, prepare the ground for a more modem,
democratic and efficient system of sub-national territorial administration. In addition to the
importance of each document within the framework of the country's administrative and financial
decentralization, the consistency and potential synergy between the both approaches denotes a
high level of cooperation between Government and the Parliament, thus warranting cautious
optimism with regard to the pace and effectiveness of future reform. The Government's reform
plan was summarized in the recent Municipal Sector Policy Letter (Annex 1). The Government
program confirms that local elections are to take place by June 1998 at the latest.
1.15   To implement the municipal development program, the President has signed a Decree
No 105 "Regarding the Approval of the Regional Policy and Management Service of the
President of Georgia". (February 14, 1997). This new regulation establishes the RPMS as the
central coordination unit at the government level in charge of ensuring political oversight of the
decentralization process. The Head of the unit, located at the State Chancellery, reports directly
to the President and the State Minister, and is supported by the following departments:



5
- Relations With Eastern Regions Of Georgia
- Relations With Western Regions Of Georgia
- Control/ Inspection
- Regional Socio-Economic Policy
- Human Resources Management.
1.16   Among its key objectives and ttsks, the unit will work out state policy in the sphere of
local government, create the political and legal basis for transition to self-government
institutions, and help define key directions of municipal and regional development, all while
operating in full consultation and cooperation with the Parliament.
C. MUNICIPAL FINANCE
1.17   Georgia's 1995 tax ratio (est. at 3.7) was among the lowest in the world. The
implications of this low tax ratio are substantial for municipalities, because just under half (47%)
of all central government revenues in 1995 were passed on to municipalities. Despite this,
however, revenues - in relative terms - of the principal Georgian cities have improved
considerably over the last two to three years. The growth in revenues for the City of Tbilisi from
1993 to 1995 illustrates municipal revenue growth accounting for more than a quarter (27%) of
the total and more than half (51 %) of the urban population respectively. The recent changes in
the composition of revenues as well as their volume have been dramatic. Total revenues,
including loans and subsidy receipts, increased more than 7 times from 1993 to 1995. Declining
reliance on borrowing and central government subsidies over the period meant that tax revenue
and other receipts increased almost twelve fold, however. In fact, the increase in Tbilisi's
revenues was particularly marked from 1994 to 1995. While total revenues increased more than
sevenfold over the whole period, they merely doubled between 1993 and 1994. The
interpretation of these spectacular rates of growth should be moderated by the realization that
they do not reflect an economic boom so much as recovery from a prior period of almost total
economic breakdown.
Major Sources of Municipal Revenues
1.18   Taxes. Georgia's current tax system was authorized in the Law on the Basics of the Tax
System in Georgia (December 21, 1993), in which the importance of local government autonomy
was clearly established, with the assertion of the right to levy local taxes. Principal taxes are
allocated to one level of government or the other, or are sometimes shared, with the base and
rates being determined by the central government. Among national taxes, the Value Added Tax
(VAT), customs duties and land taxes are shared between central and local governments in
differing proportions. Proceeds from the enterprise profits tax are allocated entirely to local
governments, while excise duties are retained by the central government. In 1995, 47.3% of
total "national" tax revenues was transferred to local budgets.
1.19   Intergovernmental Tax-Sharing Arrangements. The sharing arrangements for these
"national" taxes are based on the derivation principle: revenues are returned to the areas in which
they were collected. The geographic allocation of these revenues has shifted several times with
changing economic conditions. Initially, for instance, the VAT sharing arrangements gave cities
with a substantial industrial base (e.g., Rustavi) a 10% share of VAT revenues as opposed to the
30% share received by other localities. This was an attempt at equalization by offsetting the



6
higher yield of the VAT in the cities with a richer tax base. As more cities ran into budgetary
difficulties, the number of those receiving 30% of VAT revenues was increased. In 1995, the
central government planned to redistribute 2.2 million Lari from local budgets of better-off
communities, but only 0.3 million Lari were actually made available for transfer.
1.20   Local Taxes. In the Tax Law of December 21, 1993, mayors were given the right to
raise "local" levies and fees such as trading licenses, parking fees and specific sales taxes such as
taxes on vehicle sales. The list of potential local taxes authorized (i.e, presumptive taxes, local
sales and excise taxes, local tariffs, land and asset taxes, etc.) is quite extensive and does not
appear to be confined to the usual variety of minor fees or taxes which have been allocated to
local governments in many CIS and Eastern European countries. Although each tax must be
approved by the President's office, many of the taxes currently levied by individual
municipalities have substantial revenue potential. Furthermore, a most important general
provision of this law allows mayors to impose "special purpose levies.... for the improvement of
municipal territories, police, and other purposes". Extensive and, for the most part, constructive
use has been made of this provision by the principal cities.
Municipal Expenditures
1.21   Although the available expenditure classifications are vague and do not provide clear
linkages to specific service categories, the 1995 level of local expenditures in Georgian
municipalities appear to vary dramatically from a high of US$28 per capita per year in Poti, to a
low of US$8 in Batumi. Tbilisi is at a mid-range with US$15. Based on data received from the
principal cities for 1995, the major expenditures are: maintenance of communal services
(lighting, drainage, roads, cleaning, etc.), education, health, and subsidies for urban transport and
housing. Currently, the level of expenditures in the social sectors is significant and probably
equivalent to the funding provided from the central budget for similar services.
1.22   Cost recovery for urban services was not one of the goals of the former command
economy in Georgia. Utility charges to consumers were extremely low - about 2-3% of costs in
Tbilisi, for instance. Prices did not serve the same regulating function as in market economies
and domestic consumers of local public utility services were subsidized both directly and
indirectly; directly by municipal subsidies and indirectly by cross-subsidies paid for by price
discrimination against industrial and commercial users. Prospects for cost recovery in
infrastructure services, together with all municipal revenues, seem to have increased with the
turnaround of the Georgian economy in 1995,
Municipal Investment Financing
1.23   Current investments at the municipal level are negligible and borrowing capacity is
limited. Local governments do have collateral for loans, not only in the form of property that
they own, but implicitly through future streams of utility charges or transfers from the central
government. However, the weak state of the financial system in Georgia restricts borrowing by
even the most creditworthy local governments. There is no mechanism to lend to local
governments for investments in infrastructure and the central government does not fulfill the role
of intermediary between domestic/international funding sources and local governments. This
complete lack of municipal investment financing sources contributes to justifying the present
proposed project.



7
D.    BANK EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY
1.24 Bank strategy and projects. The principal lessons learned from over a decade of Bank
experience in lending for municipal development, worldwide, include the importance of: (a)
strong and consistent central government support for the principles of financially sound
municipal development; (b) intensive project supervision; (c) project design that is simple and
that, at the sub-project level, reflects the needs and desires of municipalities participating in the
project; (d) reasonable eligibility criteria for participation; (e) need for central government
assistance in the identification and preparation of municipal sub-projects; and (f) simple and
efficient procedures for sub-project review and approval. Those lessons have been taken into
account in the design of the proposed project.
1.25   Bank experience in Georgia. IDA's credit experience dates only from FY94. However,
strong future potential of the local government sector in Georgia has been confirmed at every
stage of the Bank's assistance effort so far. The Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
(the IDA Board of Directors approved the US$18 million credit on November 9, 1994) which
was identified and prepared rapidly in response to the country's immediate needs in the
aftermath of the civil war, is nearing the end of a successful implementation. The project has
provided the indispensable country-knowledge for the preparation of the following ongoing
activities: (i) a Social Investment Fund Project, due for appraisal in May-June, 1997; (ii) a
Water Supply and Sanitation Project, which was recently identified and is mainly intended to
target sector-specific needs in Tbilisi and at the Gardabani Waste Water Treatment Plant; (iii) an
IDF-financed Cultural Heritage Initiative, whose implementation is beginning under strong
Government support, following a highly participatory identification process for six pilot sites;
and (iv) the Legal Framework and Municipal Database IDF Grant approved recently.
1.26   In addition to the municipal sector activities, the following operations were approved by
the Board: an Institutional Building Credit of US$ 10.1 million equivalent was approved on July
5, 1994; a Rehabilitation Credit of US$75 million equivalent was approved on March 30, 1995; a
Transportation Credit of US$12 million equivalent was approved on January 6, 1996; a
Structural Adjustment Credit of US$60 million equivalent and an associated TA. Credit of
US$4.8 million equivalent were approved on April 18, 1996; and a Health Credit of US$14
million equivalent was approved on April 25, 1996, and an Agriculture Project (US$15 million).
Although the portfolio is increasing rapidly, limited implementation experience was gained in
these various sectors.
1.27   The overall implementation performance of the first operations is considered highly
satisfactory by both the Government and the Bank. However, experiences from these activities
have shown that four key factors can help facilitate project implementation: (i) simplicity of
project design; (ii) active Government participation in project preparation; (iii) support in project
management for agencies inexperienced in implementing Bank projects; and, (iv) intensive
supervision efforts by the Bank. These lessons have been taken into consideration in the design
of this project.



8
E.    RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
Country Assistance Strategy Objectives Supported by the Program
1.28   The proposed IDA assistance program is consistent with the limited Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), as discussed by the Board of Directors during the presentation of the
Rehabilitation Credit on March 30, 1995. A full CAS is currently under preparation and Board
review is scheduled in September, 1997. The proposed project is consistent with the priority
objectives of the CAS by: (a) improving the mobilization of local resources; (b) developing
institutional capacity for better expenditure management at the central and local levels; (c)
improving the management of public assets, critical for private sector development - particularly
through improved maintenance; and (d) reducing poverty.
Relevance of the Municipal Sector
1.29   The quality of municipal infrastructure and service provision helps determine a country's
success or failure in diversifying production, expanding trade, reducing poverty and improving
environmental conditions. Georgia's future economic recovery and its overall development into
a market-oriented economy will largely depend on its ability to establish dynamic local
administrations. As the country gradually emerges from years of political, social and economic
turmoil, the many legitimate demands of enterprises and households - long left on hold - should
be expected to gradually influence the government's agenda. As a consequence, Georgia is
already facing a well-known fiscal dilemma: How to generate sufficient public investment
without incurring excessive public debt? Centralized control of aggregate public debt alone is
not conducive to an optimal level of public investment. On the other hand, the partial transfer of
responsibility for infrastructure investments/maintenance and provision of communal services to
local governments can help optimize resource allocation while under fiscal constraints.
Government Strategy
1.30   Local governments, whose overall revenues more than doubled between 1994 and 1995,
contributed significantly to the above improvements and will be expected to contribute more in
the future, as greater authority for managing many public services is planned to be devolved to
them. From the consolidation of civil and democratic life in towns and villages to the provision
of basic communal services (i.e., water supply, public transport, etc.), municipalities are bound
to assume a leading role. In response to the growing importance of local governments in the
economic and political life of the country, the Government has undertaken a broad sector reform
effort aimed at attaining greater decentralization as defined by the principle of subsidiary (i.e.,
any administrative or economic responsibility should be delegated to the lowest level of
government capable of discharging it effectively).
1.31   Through its Municipal Development Program, the Government has decided to
implement a comprehensive decentralization strategy consistent with Georgia's long-term
economic and administrative needs. As stated in its Municipal Sector Policy Letter signed in
May 1997, this would "...be achieved through: (i) legal and regulatory framework which would
clearly define the state and municipal property; (ii) promoting the fiscal and economic
independence of local government... ,(iii) improved service delivery for local population ... ;(iv)
improved utilization of local resources for the development of local social infrastructure; (v)



9
establishment of the Municipal Development Fund ..; and (vi) development of information
systems..." (Annex 1). The culmination of this reform effort will be reached with Georgia's first
local elections, scheduled before June 1998. The local government elections will constitute
another major milestone in the country's overall democratization process.
Specific Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
1.32   The proposed MDDP responds to an overall strategic framework defined by: (a) the
Government's decentralization policy; (b) the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy; and (c)
recent sector work. Consistent with its development objectives, the program will target the
following issues/themes:
(a) Strengthening/management capacity-building of the local government sector.
Like most other countries of the FSU, Georgia faces considerable problems related
to the institutional weakness of public administration, both central and local. While
slight improvements in the quality of municipal management have become visible in
recent months (for example in Kutaisi, the country's second largest municipality),
the present ability of local governments to effectively address the needs of the
population in terms of basic services and administrative functions gives rise to
concern.
(b)  Promoting greater transparency and accountability in local governance.
Constituencies should come to consider municipal policy as an inextricable
component of the local community's needs and ambitions. By establishing strict
standards of public information and consultation as a prerequisite for access to the
MDF, the MDDP could significantly contribute to attaining greater transparency and
accountability in municipal governance.
(c) Creating a conducive environment for local revenue mobilization. The project
could lay the groundwork for the country's envisaged general fiscal reform. By
helping to bridge the gap between municipal revenues and expenditures through
strict eligibility criteria for credit under the municipal contract, the MDDP could
prepare the ground for Georgia's successful fiscal reform, which the Government
and the Parliament recognize as a prerequisite for longer term economic
stabilization.
(d)  Improvement of the level and quality of municipal service provision through better
maintenance and infrastructure. The important objective of improved service
delivery could be achieved through: (i) focused and explicit performance evaluation
criteria; (ii) introduction of competitive principles among service providers, be they
municipally owned or private; and, (iii) phasing out of subsidies and gradual but
decisive enforcement of cost-recovery in all municipal services.
1.33   The proposed MDDP attempts to best integrate the particular emphasis that the
Government is placing on the effective restructuring of the municipal system. While it is the
first step of an iterative process, this assistance program focuses on the priorities identified as
essential to improve the efficiency of local governments. The program will evolve over the
medium and long term, incorporating the progress made and learning from the difficulties
encountered, all within the broader context of the Country Assistance Strategy.



10
II.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PROJECT GENESIS
2.1    The Bank undertook a review of the Georgian Municipal Sector and prepared an
informal note in 1996. The discussion of the findings with the government authorities and
municipal officials provided an excellent forum to share views about the role of local
governments and the importance of an adequate municipal strategy during the transition period
to a market-based economy. Following these discussions, the Minister of Finance and more
recently the Economic Advisor to the President requested IDA assistance to prepare-a project to
support the ongoing decentralization process and foster the development of strong local
governments. Project preparation was carried out jointly with the Aid Coordination Unit and the
RPMS. Other government agencies, such as the State Ministry, the State Chancellery, several
Regional Governors, and Municipalities were consulted and played a key role in the final design
of the program.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.2    This project would support the initial
stage of Georgia's decentralization process,       Box 3: Coniraclual Methodology.
which aims at gradually shifting responsibility       IDA resources allocation will be demand-
and accountability to municipalities for the      driven (i.e., based on the principle of volunteerism).
Selected municipalities participate only if they wish
delivery and maintenance of urban services, by    to do so, and if they are willing to undertake a
helping to improve their organizational,          municipal adjustment process.
management and financial base. The program's          This approach, the bottom-up, self selecting,
objectives are: (i) assisting the decentralization  process (versus top-down, planning and selection
process at the central and local government       decisions made by the central government) is
level; (ii) promoting an improvement of           expected to introduce an element of competition
among local govemments for funds and will allow
financial and administrative management as well   MDF to include in the project only those local
as municipal investment program; (iii)            governments which are committed and capable of
supporting urgent local investments; (iv); and    making necessary policy changes.
generating employment opportunities.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.3    Consistent with the Georgia State Regional and Municipal Development Program, the
proposed investment assistance program will not only focus on physical targets, but integrate
policy issues related to municipal management. The MDDP addresses the major bottlenecks
directly and be a catalyst for adjustment in the sector. It was agreed during Negotiations that the
SPMD, once finalized, would be transmitted to the Bank [see para. 6. la].
2.4    The project would include two main components, as follows:
Component I: Institutional Development (US$ 5.7 million of which IDA credit US$4.6 million)
The project will finance the institutional development of central, regional, and local governments
through municipal and national institution-building activities. Annex 2 provides a detailed
description of this component. Within the Institutional Development component, two sub-
components will respectively focus on the following activities:



11
(a) Institutional development, at the municipal level. This sub-component will primarily
support the implementation of a municipal development program articulated around a
Municipal Development Agreement (MDA), a binding agreement between the central
government and municipalities. It includes: (i) general municipal management
improvement encompassing the preparation of MDAs for participating municipalities in
the project; (ii) organization and management improvement, including improvement of
services to the public, development of simplified administrative procedures; (iii)
strengthening municipal planning and programming procedures; (iv) human resource
planning, including the development of a career and incentives structure within
municipalities, the definition of training needs; and (v) physical investment project
implementation management.
(b) Institutional development, at the national level, would focus on strengthening the central
government's capacity to implement effectively the planned decentralization program.
Various activities aimed at providing an enabling environment for municipal
development programs: (i) national information systems of municipalities necessary to
manage the restructuring of municipal service delivery; (ii) analysis of policy
alternatives; (iii) evaluation of the impact of regional and sector investments on
municipal finance; and, (iv) project coordinating unit. The project will, during four
years, finance a Program Coordination Unit (PCU) with approximately 12 staff, within
the State Chancellery, to implement, coordinate, and oversee the project components and
their specific programs. This sub-component will also support the initial investment and
operating costs of the Municipal Development Fund (MDF).
Component II: Physical Investments (US$20.4 million of which IDA credit US$16.3 million)
The project will finance municipal investments listed in the Priority Investments Plan (PIP)
within the framework of the Municipal Development Agreement. The investments include, but
are not limited to, construction rehabilitation and maintenance of public infrastructure (primary
and secondary) facilities, and services under the responsibility of local government, particularly:
(a) roads, drainage, lighting, etc.;
(b) water supply, sanitation, and solid waste management;
(c) revenue generating facilities (markets, bus stations, etc.);
(d) social facilities( health center, schools, etc.);
(e) administrative/cultural facilities (rehabilitation of historic properties).
The eligibility criteria for investment projects were confirmed during Negotiations [see para.
6.1 b].
Selection of Participating Municipalities
2.5    The main objective of the selection process was to select municipalities that are
representative and have a high probability of successfully generating and implementing useful
development schemes that could be replicable and transferable to other municipalities. To
achieve the project objectives, the following selection criteria were applied:
(a)  demonstrated willingness to reform;



12
(b) basic financial and administrative capacity to implement the development program;
(c) geographical distribution (at least one municipality per region).
2.6    Based on the criteria above, 23 municipalities were selected to benefit from the proposed
MDDP and classified in a sample of priority candidates (11 municipalities) and a sample of
"reserve" candidates (12 municipalities). Out of the priority list, three municipalities have yet to
be identified for the pilot phase and immediate access to the project. Annex 3 provides the list of
all participating municipalities. This list would be updated periodically and revised during the
Mid-Term Review. At this initial stage, the urban population targeted under the project is
estimated at 2,3 million (approximately 75% of the total urban population).
2.7   In line with the objective - shared between the GoG and the Bank - of ensuring a
transparent and fair selection process and in order to comply with the Government's stated
purpose of ensuring a homogenous geographic distribution of the project's benefits, the
following selection mechanism was adopted: (i) in the course of a workshop organized ad hoc,
the 10 special representatives of the President in the Regions (Governors) were asked to submit -
to the RPMS and the Bank - a shortlist of two priority candidates among the municipalities under
their respective jurisdiction (one primary candidate and one "reserve" for each region, plus
Tbilisi, for a total of 23). The representatives (mayors or deputy mayors) of these municipalities
were invited by the RPMS for a follow-up workshop during which the local representatives have
been fully briefed on the proposed MDDP's objectives and design and on the competitive,
performance-based principles that will apply to the project's implementation. All 23 potential
beneficiary municipalities are marked on the attached map.
(A) Institutional Development Component
2.8    Annex 3 provides a comprehensive presentation of the project concept and design. The
project's main features can summarized as follows:
(a) Each participating municipality will submit a request to the Program Coordination Unit
stating its willingness to undergo a Municipal Audit. The MA will be executed by local
auditing firms selected from the list of auditors licensed by the Parliamentary Auditing
and Accounting Committee. The audit will be carry out according to the Operational
Manual and will achieve the following: (a) review of the financial situation of the
municipalities, (b) identify potential sources of revenue, and (c) highlight gaps in terms
of maintenance, services, and infrastructure. The main outcome of the MA is a fair
assessment of the overall management performance and an evaluation of the municipal
present investment capacity. A list of potential auditing firms and the terms of reference
for municipal audits were agreed upon during Negotiations [see para. 6.1 c]. As a
condition of effectiveness, the PCU will need to have completed the municipal audit in
at least three municipalities [see para. 6.4d]. This would allow the PCU to rapidly carry
out the next steps toward the completion of the three municipalities' respective
Municipal Development Agreements, in accordance with the norms and procedures
stated in the Operational Manual.
(b) On the basis of the auditors' recommendations, the municipality will determine its
Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plan (FARP), and identifying the
administrative, financial and technical actions to undertake its local adjustment efforts.



13
To implement the FARP, the local officials are eligible for support (T.A. and minimum
computer equipment) from PCU.
(c) Considering the present financial capacity and expected result of the management
strategy laid out in the FARP, the local government will propose their Priority
Investment Plan (PIP). The PIP chief purpose is to present the community's medium-
term physical development priorities and place specific targeted investments in the
broader framework of the municipal financial capacity. The FARP and the PIP formats
were confirmed during Negotiations [see para. 6. Id].
(d) Finally, the PCU and the municipality officials prepare the Municipal Development
Agreement which provides a contractual framework for the municipal authorities'
commitment to reform (as outlined in the FARP and PIP) and the commitment of the
central government to provide financial support during the implementation of the
municipal program. This short-term agreement between the local administration and
central authorities will enable sustainable municipal development through investment
financing. All participating municipalities are eligible for, but not guaranteed to obtain,
a Municipal Development Agreement as long as they follow the steps established in the
Operational Manual. The content and format of the Municipal Development
Agreement were agreed upon during Negotiations [see para. 6. le].
Strengthening the central government's implementation capacity
2.9    Complementary activities are targeted at the central government level as a vehicle to
support some key functions (i.e., State Chancellery RPMS, Ministry of Finance - Local Budgets).
The main purpose is to create a conducive environment to implement effectively the planned
decentralization program and to respond in the most pragmatic way to some specific assistance
needs of the participating agencies. The support activities program at the central governrment
level, particularly: T.A., training, and studies was confirmed during Negotiations [see para.
6.IfI.
(a) Technical Assistance: The areas of expertise that will be provided through Technical
Assistance, building up institutional knowledge and capacities, will cover the areas: (i)
project implementation; (ii) information systems; (iii) municipal finance; (iv) human
resource management; (v) legal development; (vi) training.
(b) Training: The PCU will provide, at the request of the municipality or the central
government entities, administrative and technical training for both municipalities and
Government agencies. Training of municipal staff, including the development of
courses and seminars, is included in the respective activities of the MDA. The PCU
would be responsible for identifying the best management and operational practices,
both within Georgia and internationally, and for facilitating the dissemination of these
practices to municipalities and other appropriate organizations.
(c) Studies: As a complement to the Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant dealing
with the legal framework (Municipal Code) and the preliminary design of the municipal
accounting system, the MDDP will finance three studies: (i) intergovernmental fiscal
relationship - property tax (YI of project implementation); (ii) housing strategy and role
of local governments (Y2); and (iii) urban land development (Y3).



14
2.10   Some initial office equipment (computers, UPS, printers, modems, and packages of basic
software) would be provided to the eligible municipalities and the central government agencies
participating in the project. This minimal package will enable them to use the computerized and
standardized management tools and ease comparison between municipalities. It is also aimed at
facilitating the flow of information through improved communication. Additional equipment
(trucks, cars, pumps, etc.) could be identified as priority investment in the MDA and proposed to
the MDF for funding.. These requests would therefore have to go through the investment
selection/appraisal process. Considering the proposed criteria, purchasing of new equipment
will appear as a low priority.
(B) Physical Investments
2.11   Based on the findings of the municipal audit, each municipality will be able to identify a
sustainable priority investment plan. The type of investment must be compatible with the
financial capacity of the municipality, and thus be consistent with the FARP. In order to
simplify project implementation, a catalog of municipal investment projects will be prepared
during the pilot phase financed under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). This catalogue would
be a menu of possible sub-projects including some sample drawings and unit costs. This menu
will facilitate informed decisions on priority investment matching municipal financing capacity.
In order to compensate the weak municipal implementation capacity and optimize the local
project execution experience gained under previous Bank projects, the physical investment
component would be implemented through contract management arrangements. The
development of an institutional framework for increasing local government's access to credit and
technical assistance is considered to be a long term process, the organizational structure evolving
with time, as more experience is gained.
The Municipal Development Fund (MDF)
2.12   MDF finain,Z mechanism. As a revolving        Box 4: Financing Scheme
fund the MDF is expected to function primarily as a
mechanism for distributing funds. Administrative     The Municipal Development Fund (MDF)
procedures and lending terms and conditions are      will supplement municipalities' own
defined in a detailed Operational Manual (Annex 11   contribution (at least 20%) and a matching
provides a synopsis of the manual). The MDF will     grant mechanism (40%), by lending to the
municipality 40% of the total cost of any
provide funding at diversified interest rates to eligible   given investment. The proposed approach
municipalities for social and municipal infrastructure    should enable selected municipalities to
investments throughout Georgia (15% for investments   carry out essential and urgent investments in
in public goods and 20% for revenue-generating       an efficient and sustainable manner.
investments) . Specific proposals would be developed
and submitted by the municipalities following the completion of the municipal audit, the
preparation of the PIP and the signing of the Municipal Development Agreement with the central
government. MDF will evaluate the investment proposals on the basis of criteria defined in the
The interest rate for investments in public goods was computed as follows: 12% (average estimated
inflation rate for the next two years) + 1.75% (service fee for the MDF) + 1.25% (service charge for
IDA); 20% for revenue-generating investments: this rate is equivalent to approximately half (50%) of
the current commercial interest rate.



15
Operational Manual. Access to the fund will be granted - on a competitive basis - to
municipalities whose investment proposals meet strict eligibility criteria (defined in consultation
with the Government). Past performance on earlier investments will be the chief criterion for
awarding future credit to a municipality. Following mid-term review, the financing conditions
may be modified. The overall financing mechanisms, including interest rates and credit
conditions for municipalities, were confirmed during Negotiations [see para. 6.1 g].
2.13   Organization and-functions ofMDF. The Municipal Development Fund (MDF) was
established through a Presidential Decree as an independent legal entity. The Head of the MDF
will be accountable to an eight-member Coordination Commission drawn from throughout the
government and the national community (Annex 3 - attachment C). The MDF Unit would carry
out the financial and economic analysis of the municipal proposals and prepare the appraisal
document for the MDF Board and maintain the sub-loan account. Based on Bank's experience
with municipal development funds, the proposed arrangements offer the best guarantees against
political interference in the financial and economic decision making process. Appropriate T.A.
will be provide to the MDF under the institutional development component. Close cooperation
between the PCU and the MDF will be required at all stages of the project and is confirmed by
the existence of a single Operational Manual. The role, composition, and modus operandum of
the MDF Coordination Commission, responsible for the MDF's financial decisions, with terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA, was confirmed during Negotiations [see para. 6.1h].
Long-term prospects for the MDF
2.14   The current state of municipal infrastructure and local government management capacity
in Georgia calls for a rapid mobilization of resources toward investment at the local level. The
capacity of the country's budding private banking sector, however, is currently very low. Banks
are not able to respond to the pressing demands of the sector, both in view of the magnitude of
existing problems and the scarce interest of the private sector in municipal investments. As an
independent legal entity created for the purposes of implementing investments in the municipal
sector, the MDF provides an imperfect but rapid and viable solution to the current lack of
financial resources and mechanisms for infrastructure investments. The proposed funding
mechanism for individual investments under the project could possibly evolve, over time, into a
formula closer to conventional infrastructure finance. In line with this long-term development
orientation and considering that the project will be subjected to local tax regulations, the GoG
decided that tax payments made by the MDF will be compensated from the national budget. As a
result, the fiscal impact on the MDF would be neutral.



16
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. PROJECT COSTS
3.1     Project Costs. Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$26.1 million
equivalent (excluding contributions sought from donors) of which US$20.9 million equivalent would
be provided by IDA and US$5.2 million by the MoF and municipalities as local counterpart funding.
A summary of the cost estimates by component is provided in Tables 3.1 below. Cost estimates by
expenditure category are presented in Annex 4.
3.2     The IDA credit will be distributed between the two components of the program: (a)
institutional development; and (b) physical investments. The institutional development component
integrates the operating cost of the PCU responsible for implementation of the institutional
development component, and the MDF, responsible for management and execution of the investment
component. The physical investment component includes procurement, contract management and
supervision of civil works and goods. The MDDP will benefit from counterpart contributions of
approximately 20% of the project's costs from two sources of financing: (i) the central government
budget in the amount of US$1.1 million equivalent or 4.2% of total project costs (excluding
contributions sought from donors) will contribute to funding of the institutional development
component; and (ii) contributions from the participating municipalities in the amount of US$4.1
million equivalent or 15.7% of total project costs (excluding contributions sought from donors) will
come in form of the dedicated budget allocations for the investment component.
Table 3.1: Summary of project cost estimates by component
(US$ Million)         Foreign     Total Base
Components             Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange       Costs
1. Institutional Development       2.9       1.1    4.0           28           22
2. Municipal Investments           9.9       4.5    14.4          31           78
Total BASELINE COSTS              12.8       5.6    18.4          31           100
Physical Contingencies             1.0       0.4     1.4          28            8
Price Contingencies                1.0       0.1     1 .1          9            6
Total PROJECT COSTS               14.8       6.1    20.9          29           114
(excluding local contribution)
Local Contribution                 5.2        0      5.2           0 -         28
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               20.0       6.1    26.1          23           142
(including local contribution)
3.3     Project cost estimates are based on January 1997 prices. Due to the evolving nature of the
Georgian economy, all estimated costs are based on the US dollar. Physical contingencies of 9%
have been applied to base costs (excluding donor funded expenditures). Price contingencies used the
following estimated average inflation rates to adjust costs during project implementation: 12% for
1997, 10% for 1998, 6.2% for 1999, and 6% for 2000 and 2001. The estimated total foreign cost is
US$6.1 million or 33% of total baseline costs. Local cost is estimated at US$12.8 million equivalent
(excluding contingencies and local contribution) or 70% of total baseline costs.



17
B. PROJECT FINANCING
3.4     Project Financing. The proposed credit of US$20.9 million equivalent would finance about
80% of the estimated total project cost (excluding contribution sought from donors) including 100 %
of foreign and 74% of local costs. The Government counterpart financing is US$5.2 million or 20%
of total project cost (excluding contributions sought from donors). The financing plan is presented in
Table 3.2. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Borrower would provide evidence to the Bank
that project accounts for counterpart funding have been opened in a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA and an initial deposit of US$250,000 (US$200,000 in the Local Contribution Account A for the
MDF, and US$50,000 in the Local Contribution Account B for the PCU, respectively) has been
deposited [see para. 6.4c]. The total amount represents approximately 6 months worth of counterpart
contributions (including tax).
Table 3.2: Financing Plan (Including Taxes)
estimates (US$ Million)     Local         Foreign        Total     % of Total
IDA a/                       14.8            6.1          20.9         74
GOVERNMENT:
(a) Central                   1.1             0           1.1           4
(b) Local                    4.1              0           4.1          15
DONORS b/                                    2.0          2.0           7
Total               20.0            8.1          28.1         100
Note:   a/ The amount of IDA Credit includes PPF in amount of US$0.4 million.
b/ Govemment is seeking US$2 million in Donor financing
3.5     The project differentiates between support activities, physical investments, and operating
costs. Support activities include T.A. and training. Investment costs are civil works and goods.
Incremental operating costs include costs for project implementation amounting to US$2.1 million
equivalent or 8% of total project cost (excluding contribution sought from donors). The sustainability
of the program would be ensured through cost recovery mechanisms described in Chapter V.
Cofinancing
3.6     Bilateral donors have been approached by the Government to provide grant financing.
During Negotiations, the GoG indicated that step will be taken to mobilize additional resources. An
amount of approximately US$2 million or 7. 1% of total project costs is expected in the medium term.
In case these funds would be forthcoming, the Government will request IDA to revised the initial
credit allocation. Technical assistance and training programs would be primarily financed through
counted upon grant resources while IDA funds would be reallocated to increase the amount of the
Physical Investment component.
Financing Plan for Investment
3.7     The financing plan of municipal investments, through the Municipal Development Fund, is
based on five principles:
(a) a coherent program of investment based on a preliminary municipal audit and
identification of priority needs;
(b) a realistic matching mechanism of the municipal investment program with the managerial
and financial capacity of the municipalities;
(c) a significant financial participation by the municipalities;



18
(d)  an inclusion in the program of a growing number of municipalities attracted by the
financing opportunities and the free support/enabling activities; and
(e)  a global approach to investment financing instead of an operation by operation approach.
3.8     The investment financing plan consist of a mix of the three classical sources of financing:
credit, self financing, and grant. The financing arrangements are follows:
(a)  Type of resources. Financing of the municipal sub-projects includes 40% grants, 40%
loan, and 20% municipal self-financing.
(b)  Financing Terms. The maximum amount of the municipal loan would be US$300,000
equivalent. The maturity of the loan would be limited to a maximum of 10 years and the
grace period to a maximum of one year.
(c)  Financing Conditions. Financing conditions may vary according to the category of
investments and will be financed on the following terms: (i) social investments on
preferential terms (15 per cent), and (b) revenue generating investments on commercial
terms (20 per cent). The central government is responsible for repayment of the IDA
credit which will be partially on-lent, through MDF, to municipalities.
3.9     The investment volume for each municipality will be a function of its present financial
capacity and its commitment to additional efforts towards budgetary adjustment, i.e., the volume of
investments will be linked with the capacity of beneficiaries to contribute to the self-financing
portion. The financing made available by the MDF out of its own resources or through MDF acting
as a financial intermediary for other co-financiers will be made available under the same terms and
conditions.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
3.10     In order to start project implementation, the Bank approved recently a US$400,000 PPF to
be disbursed over the next four months. This advance will help establish the executing agencies
(PCU and MDF) as well as initiated the first institutional development activities (primarily the
municipal audits).
Flow of funds
3.11     In addition to the PCU and MDF interest bearing Local Contribution Accounts (see para.
3.4), both agencies will open, in coordination with the MoF, two special accounts in commercial
banks acceptable to the Bank (Special Account "A" for the Municipal Development Fund and Special
Account "B" for the Project Coordination Unit). Regarding the MDF, each participating municipality
will contribute to the funding of the local investments on a matching grant basis of 20% of the sub-
project costs. Eligible municipalities will credit the Local Contribution Account with their specific
municipal contribution prior to the start of the work. Each deposit from a municipality to its account
will be recorded in the detailed bank statements of the MDF Local Contribution Account. Also, the
transfer of funds from municipality to the Local Contribution Account will be recorded in accounting
books of each municipality. Allocations of the counterpart funds by the MoF will be deposited twice
a year into the Local Contribution Account B to be used by the PCU.



19
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.1     The institutions directly involved in implementing the project will be: (a) the Department of
Local Government - State Chancellery which will take responsibility of the political aspects of the
decentralization process; (b) the Municipal Development Fund, which will manage the financing of
municipal investments within the framework of Municipal development Agreement; and (c) the
Contract Management Consultants, which are independent contractors assisting the MDF and the
municipalities in the procurement of civil works, equipment and technical assistance.
4.2     The implementation arrangements are designed to make best possible use of existing
institutional capacity, provide for focused project implementation, and be transitional in nature with
respect to the functions to be fulfilled by local governments. Implementation arrangements also reflect
the project's aim to strengthen management capacity of local government and private sector operators.
The institutional arrangements are further described in Annex 8.
Implementation Responsibilities
4.3     In additional to the municipality, the project will be implemented through three main entities:
PCU, MDF, and Contract Management Consultants (CMC). Annex 3 details further the project's
institutional arrangements. Their respective responsibilities are summarized below:
(a)  PCU - RPMS (President's Regional Policy and Managagement Service). Project
Coordination Unit will be responsible for the implementation of the MDDP's institutional
development component. This entity will be established by a Presidential Decree approving
PCU's Charter and appointing its Executive Director. The Charter defines the
responsibilities, objectives and structure of the Unit as well as the role of the PCU in the
implementation and coordination of the activities under the MDDP Project. The PCU will
function, as a separate entity, under the supervision of the Head of the RPMS and will be
accountable to the President of Georgia and the State Investment Council. The PCU
Executive Director, former Deputy Governor of the Kakheti Region, was selected after
consultation with the Bank. The main functions the PCU will be to: (a) support and oversee
all program implementation, including quality assurance; (b) coordinate and manage the
various institution and capacity building activities; (c) secure funding for project technical
assistance; (d) produce consolidated management reports to the Bank for the project; and (e)
ensure that Bank guidelines and procedures are followed. In fulfilling its role as the
implementation unit, PCU team will assign, as a minimum, and at all times, the following
staff to undertake project implementation activities: (a) Executive Director, as project
manager; (b) development director as assistant project manager; (c) financial director; (d)
accountant; (e) legal experts; (g) training organizers; (g) MIS specialist; and (h) support staff.
The PCU Executive Director will be assisted by properly qualified and experienced
consultants hired on a fixed term basis. As a condition for Negotiations, the Borrower
transmitted to the Bank the draft Decree establishing the Project Coordination Unit and its
charter [see para. 6.2]. As a condition of Board Presentations, the Borrower transmitted to
the Bank the signed copy of Decree establishing the Project Coordination Unit, its charter,
and the decision appointing the PCU Executive Director [see para. 6.3].



20
(b)  MDF. The MDF is established by a Presidential Decree approving its Charter and
appointing its Executive Director. As an autonomous legal entity, acting under the
supervision of the Coordination Commission, the Municipal Development Fund will be
responsible of reviewing proposals prepared by the municipalities for financing in
accordance with agreed MDA, criteria, and procedures. The MDF will work in close
cooperation with the MoF in order to coordinate municipal and regional finance policies, tax
and levies management procedures, and intergovemmental fiscal transfers. The MDF will
hire independent Contract Management Consultants to assist in the procurement of civil
works, equipment and spare parts, and consultant services for the sub-projects. To carry out
its function of financial institution, the MDF team will assign, as a minimum, and at all
times, the staff with expertise in financial and banking technic, economic analysis and civil
engineering. The MDF Executive Director, former Bank financed projects Director, was
selected after consultation with the Bank. The costs of these staff will be paid out of the
project and will be covered through an administrative mark-up on loan funds to be charged
by the MDF. As a condition of Negotiations, the Borrower transmitted to the Bank the draft
Decree establishing the Municipal Development Fund and its charter [see para. 6.2]. As a
condition of Board Presentation, the Borrower would transmitted to the Bank the signed copy
of Decree establishing the Municipal Development Fund, its charter, and the decision
appointing the MDF Executive Director [see para. 6.3].
(c)  CMCs. In view of the lack of familiarity of Georgian municipalities with the Bank's
procurement guidelines, which may cause them difficulties in handling Bank-financed
procurement, the use of CMCs is considered central to the success of the MDDP, especially
in the procurement of civil works which are likely to be of supply and installation nature.
The role of the Contract Management Consultants (CMCs) is critical to the successful
implementation of the physical component. The Selection of CMCs will be made by an
Evaluation Committee chaired by the Executive Director of the MDF and including
representatives from the concerned Municipalities, the MDF itself and the PCU. The CMCs
will be generally responsible for: (i) consulting with the relevant Technical Departments of
the municipality and with the MDF to assess the preparedness of the specific investment
project; (ii) on behalf of the MDF, providing assistance to the municipality in packaging the
bidding documents; and (iii) provide procurement training to the municipality. Once a sub-
project is approved by the MDF Coordination Commission, a CMC will initiate the
procurement process. During the project implementation phase, his main function will be the
monitoring and control of the day-to-day contract implementation process in coordination
with the municipalities. One of the main criteria for the selection of the CMCs will be their
experience in Bank-financed projects and their working knowledge of the Bank's
Procurement guidelines for goods and consultants. Contract management arrangements for
implementation of investment activities were confirmed during Negotiationsjsee para. 6.1 k].
Project Implementation Plan and Operating Procedures
4.4     The Borrower's Project Implementation Plan includes arrangements for the timely provision
of all necessary inputs, adequate staffing of PCU and MDF, key activities, an estimated time-table of
implementation of adequate financial management procedures, specification of the monitoring and
evaluation system, performance indicators and implementation of other operational procedures required
for effective project execution. Arrangements for project implementation, including an implementation
plan, procurement and disbursement arrangements, and reporting requirements were confirmed during



21
Negotiations [see para. 6.1 1]. According to agreements reached during negotiations, the Borrower is
finalizing detailed guidelines and operating procedures in the Operational Manual (OM) for the PCU,
MDF, and other organizations (i.e., Contract Management Consultants) involved in implementing
project components. As a condition for Credit Effectiveness, the Operational Manual shall have been
adopted - for the MDF - by the Coordination Commission and -for the PCU - by the RPMS. Ensuring
that the PCU and theMDF will follow these procedures throughout project implementation will be a
covenant to the Credit Agreement [see para. 6.4a].
B.    MONITORING, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION
4.5     Project monitoring will be the responsibility of PCU and MDF, contracting out most of these
functions, as appropriate. Separate studies to monitor issues related to poverty impact assessment,
project related private sector development, etc. may also be commissioned by PCU. PCU and MDF
will furnish the Bank with reports on a regular basis including: (i) quarterly progress and project
financial management reports; (ii) interim unaudited statements of project accounts kept by PCU; and
(iii) additional information that the Bank may request from time to time. MDF and PCU's financial
statements will also be provided annually.
4.6     Performance monitoring will be undertaken by the Bank. To ensure close monitoring of the
achievements of project objectives during implementation, a set of key performance indicators were
developed, respectively, for (i) the MDDP's overall Development Objectives and (ii) the PCU and the
MDF (see Annex 9). These performance indicators will be examined during supervision missions and
through periodic reports by the Borrower. Performance indicators to monitor project success were
confirmed at negotiations [see para. 6.1m].
4.7     In addition, the Government and the Bank will have annual reviews to exchange views on the
status of project implementation, particularly regarding: (a) performance of the PCU implementation
unit and project implementation procedures agreed with the Bank; and (b) adjustments in the project
that may be required to improve implementation of its objectives, including allocation of financing
between project components. To facilitate project initiation, a project launch mission will take place
soon after credit effectiveness. Consultant performance will be evaluated based on quality and
timeliness in the completion of tasks, and transfer of relevant skills to local communities. By July 3 1,
1999, the MDF and PCU will undertake a comprehensive mid-term review, and refine project design
together with the Bank, as appropriate. A thorough project evaluation will be undertaken at that stage
to determine if project design, implementation arrangements, or terms and conditions should be revised
in order to better meet the needs. Overall, the scope of the mid-term review will include: (i) a
comprehensive assessment of the MDDP's progress as measured against the agreed development
objectives and key performance indicators; (ii) the financing and cofinancing arrangements; and (iii)
the desirability of expanding the Project's geographic scope to Abkhazia and South Ossetia if the
political-strategic situation at that time permits it, based on the assessment of both the Borrower and the
Bank. Final project evaluation will be undertaken after project completion. Confirmation of mid-term
review and sequencing of the reviews was agreed upon at negotiations [see paras 6.1 n].
4.8     As this is the second Bank-supported investment credit in the municipal sector and
considering the limited local experience, the project is expected to require a significant supervision
effort. Therefore, it is planned that about 26 staff weeks would be required for supervision for the first
year, and about 18 staff weeks in each of the following three years. A detailed supervision plan is
included as Annex 8. The supervision schedule was confirmed at negotiations [see para. 6.1o].



22
C.    PROCUREMENT
Procurement Arrangements
4.9     Procurement activities under the project will fall under one of the following areas: (i) works;
(ii) goods; (iii) consultants needed for institutional and other capacity building programs and for
implementing the project activities.
a. Procurement Responsibilities
4.10     Procurement procedures utilized in Georgia are mostly based on the arrangements which
prevailed under central planning in the former Soviet Union, and are not appropriate under IDA-
financed projects. However, Georgia has acquired limited experience with procurement practices over
the last three years. Although the country lacks an effective legal and institutional framework for
public procurement, the current practices and regulations applied in the public and private sectors as
well as plans to introduce public procurement legislation are under consideration. The present
shortcomings will be remedied through: (i) the employment of an experienced procurement specialist;
(ii) a detailed Operational Manual for procurement processes; (iii) use of independent Contract
Management Consultants for procurement of sub-project; and (iv) the mandatory use of the Bank's
(and the Region's) Standard Bidding Documents (SBD). Detailed TORs for the CMC will be included
in the Operational Manual.
b. Role of Contract Management Consultants
4.11     CMCs will be responsible for contract administration on behalf of the MDF and the
concerned municipalities. For each specific subproject, responsibilities of the CMC will, inter alia,
include: (a) training of municipal staff and developing monitoring procedures for the municipalities'
use in managing procurement and disbursement; (b) detailing the procurement plan (types of goods,
quantities, estimates, delivery requirements, procurement schedule); (c) preparing technical
specifications of materials and equipment required; (d) preparing specific bid documents based on the
Bank's standard documents, including notifications of bidding opportunities; (e) preparing terms of
reference and finalizing documents for hiring consultants according to models prepared by the Bank;
(f) participating in the evaluation of bids and proposals received together with the municipality, the
MDF and the PCU and in the preparation of evaluation reports; (g) advising on contracts with
successful bidders and selected consultants; (h) contract administration on behalf of the MDF and the
concerned Municipality; and (i) providing, upon request, on-the-job training to staff from the
purchasing units of beneficiaries in order to gradually develop its capabilities in handling international
procurement.
c. Methods of Procurement
4.12     The MDDP's operation in terms of procurement will be split among two broad categories:
(i) a credit line for approximately US$16 million to participating municipalities for financing of
municipal sub-projects; and (ii) funding for the institutional development component (US$5.6 million)
which will be allocated for various consultant services and minor equipment needs for the PCU and
MDF's implementation units. While it is not possible to list the procurement packages under municipal
sub-projects component, the following procurement methods and thresholds will govern. A detailed
Operational Manual is being prepared, which will incorporate detailed procurement procedures agreed



23
between agreed between IDA and the borrower and incorporated in the Development Credit
Agreement. The Manual would be subject to prior Bank review. A summary of the procurement
arrangements is provided in Tables 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent) la
Expenditure Category                                     Procurement Method                  Total Cost
ICB     NCB        Other     N.B.F          (include
contingencies)
1. Investment Credit
1.1 Rehabilitation Works including              -        -        20.3                      20.3
Supply and Installation                                     (16.1) lb                   (16.1)
2. Goods and Equipment                                                0.45                      0.45
(0.36)                    (0.36)
2.1 Computer Systems                                             (0.2) Ic                   (0.2)
2.2 Office Equip. & Supplies                                    (0.08) Ic                  (0.08)
2.3 Office Furniture                                            (0.02) Id                  (0.02)
2.4 Vehicles                                                    (0.06) Id                  (0.06)
3. Consulting Services le
3.1 Municipal Institutional Development                            1.66                      1.66
(1.37)                    (1.37)
3.11 Municipal Management Improv.                            (0.51)                    (0.51)
3.12 Financial Manag. Strengthening                          (0.60)                    (0.60)
3.13 Municipal Manag. Info. Systems                          (0.26)                    (0.26)
3.2 National Institutional Development                             1.28                      1.28
(0.94)                    (0.94)
3.21 National Information System.                            (0.16)                    (0.16)
-    3.22 Analysis of Policy Alternatives                         (0.24)                    (0.24)
3.23 Training/Workshop                                       (0.15)                    (0.15)
3.24 Impact Evaluation and Audit                             (0.39)                    (0.39)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                                        2.20                      2.20
(1.80)                    (1.80)
5. Refund to PPF Advance                                              0.4                       0.4
(0.4)                     (0.4)
Total Project                                                         26.1                      26.1
Total IDA                                                            (20.9)                    (20.9)
Note: la Figures in parenthesis represent IDA financing; totals will not tally due to rounding off.
lb The Municipal sub-projects are estimated to cost between $300,000 and US$ 1.0 million. The procurement for
these sub-projects will be governed under Bank Guidelines, January 1995. Most of the sub-projects represent
rehabilitation and construction of civil works. There may also be some Supply and Installation of equipment. The
precise procurement method to be used will depend upon the contract value: all works contracts above US$0.5
million will be through ICB and contracts below that threshold will be through NCB.
Ic International Shopping.
Id National Shopping /
le Procurement of consulting services and training will be governed under Bank's Consultant Guidelines, January 1997.



24
L. Good
(i) Contracts for the supply of goods and equipment (computer equipment, including UPS
equipment, and software, vehicles, office furniture, cabinets, security equipment, etc.)
estimated to cost more than US$ 200,000 shall be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures.
(ii) Contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 shall be awarded on the basis of
International Shopping (IS) on the basis of quotations from a minimum of 3 suppliers from
at least 2 different countries, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for the procurement of items or groups of items to cost less than US$ 50,000 may
be awarded on the basis of National Shopping (NS), depending on the availability of such
items in Georgia. In this case, a minimum of 3 quotations should be obtained.
(iii) Direct contracting, irrespective of the contract amount, may be used, with the Bank's prior
approval, under the following circumstances: (a) the required equipment or spare parts will
have to be compatible with existing equipment. For such purchases to be justified, the
original equipment should be suitable and the advantages of having another make of
equipment should have been considered and found unsuitable; and (b) the equipment is of
proprietary nature and obtainable only from one source.
4.13     Domestic Preferences. In the evaluation of bids for equipment purchased under ICB bids
offering Georgian manufactured goods would be granted a margin of preference of fifteen (15) percent
or the amount of duties and other related import charges which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in Georgia, whichever is lower, as specified in Appendix 2
of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
11. Civil works
4.14     Civil works contracts are expected to be small (average value estimated at US$300,000
equivalent), with no contract exceeding US$ 1,000,000 equivalent. The precise nature of the works is
not known at this stage; however, it is anticipated that most of the contracts would relate to
rehabilitation and construction, and there may also be a few supply and installation of equipment
contracts. Procurement of works will be governed under following thresholds:
(i) IXC: Civil works estimated to cost US$500,000 and more shall be procured on the basis of
ICB procedures and by using Bank's standard bidding documents and evaluation report
formats. Bidders for supply and installation contracts will be prequalified in accordance with
the provisions of Paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Bank Guidelines.
(ii) NCB: Works with an estimated value of US$500,000 and less will be procured on the basis
of National Competitive Bidding. Contractors for works estimated to cost UIS$300,000 and
more shall be prequalified in accordance with Paragraph 2.9 and 2.10 of the Bank Guidelines.
One of the main criteria for prequalification would be the actual experience of contractors in
works of similar nature and volume, financial capacity, and the technical competence. The
works under NCB shall be advertised in national newspapers. Foreign contractors shall be
permitted to participate in the bidding. The borrower shall use the Bank's SBDs for smaller
works and the standard evaluation report formats of 1997.



25
III TA and Consulting Services
4.15     Consulting services would be required under the project's Institution Development
Component as well as for the investment feasibility studies (municipal sub-projects). These services
extend to project implementation support (US$1.66 million) and technical feasibility studies (US$ 1.28
million). Annex 6 presents a description of consulting services required. Most of the consulting
assignments will be contracted on the basis of QCBS criteria. However, some of the assignments under
the institutional development component and the selection of Contract Management Consultants for
procurement of works and goods for Municipal sub-projects, shall be procured on Quality-based
selection. Other methods to be used in the consultant selection will include: (i) Least-cost for simple
assignments estimated to cost US$200,000 or less; and (ii) Individual Consultants for services or tasks
that are of a short duration and where employment of consulting firms may not be necessary or
economical. Training required for PCU , MDF, and other stakeholders involved in implementing the
project will be procured from firms with expertise in the respective technical field and will follow the
Bank's Consultant Guidelines, 1997. The borrower will use the Bank's standard LOI and the contract
formats in processing consultant selections.
IV Incremental Operating Costs
4.16          The net operating costs (US$ 1.7 million) proposed to be financed out of the IDA
Credit represent staff salaries, recurring costs, rents, and supplies for the PCU and the MDF units. The
selection of staff, their salaries, and benefits, at the two Units will be in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. The reimbursement of these costs will be on the basis of annual budgets for each
implementing unit to be approved by the IDA. Any supplies should be procured in accordance with NS
procedures.
Procurement Review
4.17     The first three contracts, and for contracts above US$200,000, for goods and works awarded
ICB, IS, NS and NCB procurements would be subject to prior Bank review. Any consulting contract in
excess of US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 10,000 for individuals would be subject to the Bank's prior
review procedures. These limits are expected to result in prior review of about 70 percent of total Bank
financed procurement. Also, regardless of the value, terms of reference for all technical assistance and
consultants' contracts would be reviewed in advance by the Bank. This relatively extensive review of
procurement packages is considered necessary because of the inexperience of the beneficiaries in Bank
procurement procedures. Other procurement (about 20%) would be subject to the Bank's post review
during supervision of the project in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Procurement Plan and Monitoring
4.18     Procurement plans for major procurement packages are presented in Annex 6. Procurement
data will be collected and recorded by PCU and MDF. The Project Launch Workshop, including
training in procurement, would be scheduled as close as is feasible to credit effectiveness, tentatively
December 1997. Procurement training of PCU and MDF staff, preparation of final bidding documents
and procurement plan would be undertaken with the assistance of a procurement expert.



26
4.19     Notifications. For works above US$1 million procured under ICB, a "General Procurement
Notice" containing information about bidding opportunities for procurement will be published in
"Development Business". NCB procedures will be advertised in local newspapers following the
directives of the Operational Manual.
4.20     Project Implementation Unit (US$1.5 million). The operating costs of PCU and MDF will
be financed at 100% by the credit. The individuals will be selected according to the Operational
Manual.
D.    DISBURSEMENT
4.21     All disbursements would be against standard documentation as described in the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook. No standard disbursement profile exists for projects in Georgia or in the
region. Disbursements will be administered by PCU and MDF, receiving funds from Ministry of
Finance (MoF). The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as presented in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: Disbursement Categories - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount                  Financing Percentage
in US$
million
1. Municipal Investments           16.1   80%
2. Goods                            0.3    100% of foreign expenditure; 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory); 80% of local expenditure for
other items (procured locally)
3. Consultants' services /a         2.6    100%
4. Incremental Costs /b             1.5    100%
5. Refund to PPF Advance            0.4
Total                              20.9
Note: q/ Consultants' services include: (a) project implementation support; and (b) studies.
bl Incremental costs include MDF and PCU's operating costs.
4.22     Disbursements are expected to be completed in four years, based on a conservative estimate
of time required to complete the micro-project activities covered by the project. The estimated closing
date is June 30, 2001. The proceeds of the Credit are expected to be disbursed in accordance with the
schedule summarized in Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY 1997_  FY 1998    FY 1999   FY2000    FY2001            Total
IDA          0.5         4.7        7.5         5.5        2.7         20.9
Cumulative      0.5         5.2        12.7       18.2        20.9        20.9
4.23     Statements of Expenditure. Disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) for contracts for goods below US$200,000. Also, for consulting firms for
contracts below US$100,000, and for individual consultants for contracts under US$50,000,
disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and for incremental
operating costs, regardless of the amount. The documentation to support these expenditures



27
would be retained by PCU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year
in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by
the Bank and auditors upon request. Full documentation would be required for withdrawals for
contracts above the SOE threshold levels. PCU will ensure that all supporting documentation is
adequately maintained and available for review at the request of the Bank.
4.24     Special Account. The MDDP will open two special accounts, the Special Account "A" for
the Municipal Development Fund and the Special Account "B" for the Program Coordination Unit, in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.
4.25     The maximum authorized allocation of the SA "A" managed by the MDF would be
US$800,000. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the SA would be limited to
US$500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the credit have reached the level of
SDRI .08 million (equivalent to US$1,5 million), the initial allocation may be increased up to the
authorized allocation of US$800,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
4.26     The maximum authorized allocation of the SA "B" managed by the PCU would be
US$500,000. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the SA would be limited to
US$300,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the credit have reached the level of
SDR722,000 (equivalent to US$1 million) the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized
allocation of US$500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
4.27     Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when
one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements
for replenishments would follow the standard Bank procedures as described in the Disbursement
Handbook. Monthly bank statements of the SAs, reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all
replenishment requests.
E.    ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.28     Financial Management. The Borrower and PCU, in its capacity as the PIU, and the MDF
will be responsible for maintaining an adequate financial management systems. Financial management
systems will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing systems. MDF and PCU, on behalf of
the Borrower, will ensure that accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures can be provided to the Bank.
4.29     Accounting. Accounting information submitted to the Bank by PCU and MDF will comply
with international accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. Acrual accounting, used by PCU and
MDF for their own financial management purposes, will be used for project accounting. Project
accounts will be maintained by PCU and MDF separately from any other existing accounts. Both units,
MDF and PCU, having the responsibility for orderly and efficient recording and safeguarding of the
project assets and resources will: (a) ensure accountability for project funds; (b) maintain records of the
sources of funds, and the relevant accounts, broken down into the various types of expenditure for the
project; (c) maintain internal controls to ensure that financial records are reliable, complete and
provided on a timely basis; (d) report on the use of funds; (e) facilitate verification of these reports by
independent auditors; and (f) provide information, as required, to the Bank.



28
4.30     Financial Reporting. The Bank discussed, during project appraisal, the requirements for
financial management systems, including accounting, project progress reporting, and auditing.
Reporting templates prepared by PCU and MDF were reviewed and have been integrated in the
Procedures Manual. Based on the agreed format, it was agreed that during project implementation,
PCU and MDF will submit a quarterly Project Financial Management Report to the bank. The Report
will include: (a) Project Progress Report showing comparisons of actual physical and financial progress
vs. forecasts, and updated six month project forecast; (b) Project Financial Statement including source
and application of funds; expenditure by category statement; and special account reconciliation
statement; and (c) Procurement Management Report showing procurement status and contract
commitments. PCU's Project Implementation Plan will describe further the project financial
management systems and the Project Financial Management Report. During Negotiations, the
Borrower provided evidence that a an operational reporting and accounting system for the project
implementation offices was established [see para. 6.1 p]. Evidence that the management and
information systems, acceptable to IDA, are operational and integrated in the management and
accounting systems will be a condition of credit effectiveness [see para. 6.4b].
4.31     Auditing. PCU and MDF will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to the
Bank, within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year (including the fiscal year of the final Bank
disbursement) the financial, managerial, and technical audits of the Project that are acceptable to the
Bank. PCU and MDF audit arrangements, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, were
confirmed during Negotiations [see para. 6. Iq].
4.32     Financial Audit:. PCU and MDF will have the required Financial Staternents for each year
audited in accordance with standards that are acceptable to the Bank. An audit of such financial
statements will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems
to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safeguarding of project-financed
assets; (b) a determination whether PCU has maintained adequate documentation of all relevant
transactions; and verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing under
the project, and identification of any ineligible expenditures. The use of a special account (SA) and
statements of expenditures (SOEs) will be addressed separately in the auditor's opinion. PCU and
MDF will ensure that records and accounts of the project will be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, according to standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank. The auditor
will be appointed in sufficient time to carry out its responsibilities, including: (a) a review of the
financial management systems at the beginning of project implementation; and (b) periodical reviews
of the project financial management systems thereafter. The Bank-required audits will not cover
possible donor-funded activities, even if supervised by the Bank.
4.33     Technical and Procurement Review. The procurement and technical review of MDF
activities will be carried out of a sample number of municipal projects in differing regions at differing
stages of the municipal project cycle. The auditor would ensure that the sample also covers municipal
projects that have used different implementation modes. The auditor should visit sites of selected
municipal projects and discuss with all participants involved in municipal project selection,
identification and implementation to ensure a correci basis for his opinion. In conducting their
review, the experts should pay special attention to the following:
(a)  All funds have been used in accordance with conditions of the relevant Municipal
Development Agreement and consequent contracts and according to regulations described in
the Operational Manual, with due attention to economy and efficiency and only for the
purposes for which the financing was provided. Relevant agreements refer to all relevant



29
Municipal Development Agreements signed by the PCU and the MDF with their
implementing partners, contractors, suppliers or consultants for the provision of works,
goods or services required for municipal project implementation;
(b)  Goods, works, and services have been financed by the Implementing Agencies in
accordance with (i) the above relevant Municipal Development Agreement and (ii)
acceptable payment procedures;
(c)  All necessary supporting documents, records and accounts have been kept in respect of all
municipal project expenditures by the Implementing Agencies; clear linkages should exist
between the books of account and reports presented by the Municipality to the Fund; and
(e)  All procurement methods have been conducted in a transparent and fair manner giving all
potential participants at the local and international level a chance to participate in
procurement-related activities in accordance with procurement procedures acceptable to
IDA and agreed within the Municipal Development Agreement.
4.34   The Appointment of the financial and technical auditors, acceptable to IDA, is scheduled
within the first quarter of project implementation.



30
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    BENEFITS
5.1    The project, the second IDA's intervention in the municipal sector in Georgia, will
contribute to the improvement of quality of municipal services and basic infrastructure, a
strategy set up as a priority in the Bank's CAS and in the Georgia's State Municipal
Development Program. The MDDP design integrates the Bank-wide lessons from previous
experience in the municipal sector. More specifically, the main benefits of the project will
include: (a) support for the decentralization process and promotion of a more active role for
municipalities, (b) facilitation of improved municipal financial performance and contribution to
national instituti-onal development objectives through a reduction of the public sector deficit; and
(c) impact on the urban population - economically and socially - through: (i) reduced costs-and
better access to municipal services, and (ii) employment generation.
Component I: Institutional Development
The main benefit of this component will be more efficient and effective municipal
management at the national and local level achieved through stimulating the capacity of central
and local governments to rationally program, finance, manage and maintain facilities and
delivery of services. In particular, the component will support and encourage local governments
to assume their municipal responsibilities.
-  Fiscal impact through better policy: This component will provide the central and local
governments with the tools needed to: (i) formulate more effective policies; (ii) optimize
resources allocation; and (iii) improve the efficiency of fiscal expenditures comprising a
substantial percentage of GDP.
* Fiscal impact though better municipal management: At the national and local level, the
component will contribute to national institutional development objectives through a
reduction of the public sector deficit.
(a)  At the national level, the benefits will consist of (i) study and analysis of municipal
policy alternatives; (ii) intergovernmental fiscal relationship; and (iii) evaluation
of the impact of regional and sector investments on municipal finance.
(b)  At the municipal level, the benefits will include:(i) municipal management
improvements reflected in MDAs for participating municipalities; (ii) municipal
organization improvements including improvement of services to the public,
development of simplified administrative procedures; (iii) strengthening municipal
planning and programming procedures.
* Cost recovyr. Not applicable for this component.
*  Poty impact. This component will provide the Government with the capacity to
prevent of further breakdown of vital municipal services. Prevention of further
degradation of the municipal services, in turn, will yield the following benefits:
* Maintaining and, in some cases, increasing accessibility and safety of municipal
services;
* Introducing elements to increase efficiency of municipal services;
* Reduction of exposure to diseases, transmittable through water;



31
* Provision of the necessary environment for maintaining health care services;
* Ensuring continuity of educational process through the winter; and
* Ensuring continuity of educational process through the winter.
*  Non-project scenario: In the absence of a project, the following could be anticipated:
and (a) further deterioration of key municipal infrastructure and services; (b) further
weakening public expenditure management and budget planning procedures at both
central and local level; (c) less skilled municipal managerial and line staff n the central
and local level; and (d) loss of credibility of local authorities.
* Alternatives considered: During project design, the Regional Policy and Management
Service (RPMS) of the Government undertook a review of its work organization with the
assistance of the Bank, and assessed a range of options for improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the municipal sector at the central and local levels. Options rejected
included the creation of new Departments in the State Chancellery and the Ministry of
Finance (too expensive and functionally inappropriate)
*  Beneficiaries: The project will benefit approximately 75% of the urban population,
particularly in secondary cities which currently endure inadequate levels of services with
serious environmental risks. Targeting smaller cities and towns will be achieved through
a ceiling of the project resources accessible to the capital-city. Tbilisi share of the IDA
credit would be limited to 30%, representing its proportion of urban population.
*  Monitorina and evaluation: A monitoring plan was prepared during appraisal and agreed
during negotiations. The Operational Manual includes general indicators for the PCU
and MDF long-term development objectives and measurement parameters.
Component II: Physical Investments:
The project will finance municipal investments listed in the Priority Investments Plan
(PIP) within the framework of the Municipal Development Agreement. The investments
include, but are not limited to, construction rehabilitation and maintenance of public
infrastructure (primary and secondary) facilities, and services under the responsibility of local
government. New constructions will be limited.
* Economic analysis: The economic analysis of sub-projects to be financed under the
municipal development agreements will be an important element of project justification.
Due to the nature of MDDP and the flexibility built into the system, a traditional
economic analysis is not feasible. A pragmatic approach will be adopted which consists
of developing an adequate cost effectiveness methodology based on a sample of some of
the most traditional municipal sub-projects. A detailed economic analysis will be carried
out for each investment as an eligibility condition to the MDF and will ensure that the
best solution in terms of cost and efficiency is selected under the project. The economic
evaluation will provide the following indications:
(a) present status of the existing assets (roads, facilities, etc.):
- inventory of the same type of assets as those projected:
- population served (indicator of service frequency);
- management of the existing assets;
- justification of the priority given with regard to the municipal budget.



32
(b) Demand estimate:
- complementary expenditures required (land, networks, roads, etc.);
- standards or objectives to be met (defined by local or national authorities);
- identification of the inadequacies to be corrected;
- alternatives considered;
- justification of the best alternative selected (cost/efficiency ratio);
- improvement of the level of need satisfaction.
(c) Cost estimate:
- size of the investment
- estimate of investment expenses on the basis of the average cost per beneficiary;
- selection of the most cost effective solution.
* Cost recoveY: The IDA credit will set up an institutional framework which overtime
will contribute to establishing a full cost recovery of the municipal services. The
Physical Investment Component will be the first step toward implementation of cost-
recovery scheme. The MDF will supplement municipalities' own contribution of at
least 20% and a matching grant mechanism 40%, by lending to the municipality 40% of
the total cost of any given investment. This financing mechanism will provide funding
at diversified interest rates to municipalities; 15% for investments in public goods and
20% for revenue-generating investments. The 15 % interest rate for investments in
public goods was computed as follows: 12% (average estimated inflation rate for the
next two years) plus 1.75% (service fee for the MDF) plus 1.25% (service charge for
IDA). The 20% interest rate for revenue-generating investments is equivalent to
approximately half (50%) of the current commercial interest rate. The on-lent amounts
will be repayable over a period not to exceed 10 years following a grace period not to
exceed a year. The proposed approach should enable selected municipalities to carry
out municipal investments in an efficient and sustainable manner.
-  Non-proJect scenario: In the absence of the project, the loss of valuable assets would
further decrease the level and quality of municipal services would be anticipated.
e Alternatives considered: During the project preparation, the complete financial
organization and tendering process for the Physical Investment Component were
developed. Options included (a) designing a program without a MDF and relying,
instead, on commercial banks; (b) maintaining the MDF, but increasing the share of the
repayable (loan) component to municipalities; and (c) creating a second independent
agency in charge of the program management. The first option was rejected due to the
weakness of the financial sector and the limited creditworthiness of the municipalities.
As an intermediate step, the MDF is the only financial mechanism which can urgently
channel investment funds to the municipalities in an efficient and flexible manner
without distorting the financial sector. Considering the limited financial capacity of
local governments, the second option is not viable in the present context. However, it
was felt that a fraction of the investment cost should be financed through credits at
subsidized interest rates for pedagogical reasons. The third option was rejected because
an independent agency would not allow to build the necessary capacity for local
government coordination within the government. Considering the high political stakes
of any decentralization strategy, this function is better exercised within a central
government structure. These alternatives would be reconsidered during the mid-term
review and before designing the next phase (2002 -2006) of the municipal development
program.



33
* Poverty impact - unemployment aspects: Through the investment program financed
under the project, the impact on the labor market is expected to be very positive,
particularly in the construction and public work sector, one of the hardest hit during the
economic transition period. Considering the type of investments, it is expected that the
low and unskilled labor force will benefit the most from the project. Quantifying
expected benefits to the most vulnerable groups is problematic due to lack of appropriate
data and complexity of concepts. The Bank's Georgia Poverty Assessment, to be
completed in 1997, will facilitate a future evaluation of the project's impact.
Environmental Impact:. The program includes physical investments identified through a
programming process. This category B project will facilitate sustainable improvements
in the living and working environment of Georgia's urban areas. Due to the nature of the
program, the physical components will not be determined before project effectiveness.
However, in order to ensure the physical components do not adversely affect the urban
environment, an environmental impact assessment checklist will be included in the
Operational Manual. The checklist has the dual advantage of: (a) screening sub-projects
in a more operational manner than possible with an environmental assessment; and (b)
enhancing the pedagogical value of raising local government awareness of their projects'
environmental impact. The standard check list will be used for investments projects
(Annex 10) and will result in a series of recommendations to be incorporated into the
design of the investment sub-projects. The fulfillment of these recommendations will be
supervised by the Contract Management Consultant which reports to the PCU.
*  Monitoring and evaluation: By July 31, 1999, a comprehensive mid-term evaluation will
be conducted to refine project design and review replicability of the sub-project
experience. Also alternative project designs (as listed above) would be reconsidered
during the mid-term review and before designing the next phase (2002 -2006) of the
municipal development program. A monitoring plan was prepared during appraisal and
agreed during negotiations (see Annex 9). The Operational Manual includes a detailed
plan that outlines key performance indicators and measurement parameters, for the MDF
physical performance.
B.    SOCIAL IMPACT
5.2    A long tradition of close family ties and    Box 5: Social Indicators
communal barter exchanges, combined with an                          1990   1995
historically large informal or underground      Education
economy, have helped maintain both cultural         $ per capita 20.6    4.0
integity and socioeconomic security. Meanwhile,     % Gov. Spending    20.4   6.7
itgrit                                             % GDP             7.4   0.9
Georgia has enjoyed a comprehensive system of
social welfare funded from the state budget (i.e.  Health
pensions, disability, maternity, child care         % Gay. Spending    9.5   5.1
allowances). Health standards have also been        % GDP              3.5   0.8
comparatively high. Life expectancy at birth was   Infant Mortality Rate
among the highest in the CIS republics, whereas     (per 000 live births  19.0  21.4
infant mortality has been below average.        During the same period, overall age adjusted
However, this social welfare and safety system  mortality rates increased by 18%, infant mortality
has been badly strained during the outbreaks of  rates by 1 30/o, and school enrollments fell by 11%
civil conflicts, resulting in large numbers of



34
refugees who have overloaded existing health and social support services. In the midst of a
social and economic breakdown that was considered more extreme than any other former Soviet
republic, living standards in all socioeconomic classes have dropped precipitously since the
early 1990s.
5.3    Nonetheless, given its history of maintaining a strong national identity, resilience and
recovery from hardship, and self-reliant, entrepreneurial behavior, the Georgian society has
already shown its great potential to overcome the past socio-political crisis and forge a path
toward sustainable economic development. As IDA second intervention, stemming the further
deterioration of key municipal infrastructure and services is an important element in alleviating
poverty and ensuring a minimal social safety net. Indeed, it is the more vulnerable groups, such
as the sick, the poor, and refugees of war who suffer disproportionately when basic services
breakdown and the environment degrades. Building on the recent economic recovery and
political stability, the proposed project will support the government effort to decentralize the
decision making process and increase community participation in public choice. Additionally,
rehabilitation of essential municipal infrastructure and services will strengthen the credibility of
the local authorities, help rebuilt the nation, and consolidate the country's unity
C.    PROJECT RISKS
5.4    There are short/medium term risks, and long-term strategic risks associated with the
project, mainly deriving from technical/organizational, institutional, and financial aspects of the
project and related to overall project acceptance.
5.5    Technical/organizational risks in the short and medium-term relate to PCU's
implementation capacity, and the capacity of the municipalities to perform project tasks
according to targets (see Table 5.1 below). Capacity risks exist in particular with respect to
reducing the public deficit, mainly through increased revenue collection, and improving the
municipal management capacity. In order to mitigate these risks , the project design integrates
specific activities targeting the municipal finance arrangements. The project also incorporates
the experience gained under previous Bank projects, particularly the MIRP, using the contract
management arrangements . Additionally, continuous performance monitoring will play an
important part in mitigating capacity risks.
Table 5.1: Short term and medium term project risks
Risk                 Possible Cause       Mitigation Measures         By Whom
Institutional Framework
Delays in the            Submission of the     Government
decentralization process  Sector Policy Letter
Economic Situation
Unfavorable macro-       CAS & Government    Government and IDA
economic conditions      commitment to
economic reforms
Technical/Procedural
Failure of a municipality  Municipal           Minister of Finance,
to implement its adjustment  Development        PCU and Municipality
program                  Agreement
Implement municipal      Adm & Financial       Minister of Finance,
maintenance programs     Development Plan       PCU and Municipalities



35
Table 5.1: Short term and medium term project risks (Continued)
Risk                Possible Cause         Mitigation Measures          By Whom
Financial
Inability to enact the    Intergovernmental fiscal   PCU and Minister of
required fiscal reforms    relationships Study  Finance
Borrowing capacity at the    Agreement on MDF       MDF and Minister of
municipal level        financing mechanisms      Finance
Capacity of local revenue    Mun. Dev. Agreement    Municipalities and
administration         (TA and training)         PCU
5.6    Another identified risks is the possibility that some municipalities may prove ineffective
or reluctant in following the project objectives. To safeguard against this risk, the municipalities
were ranked in two categories: priority and reserve lists. This will put competition among
eligible municipalities. Should there be some initially selected municipalities, not interested or
capable of fully participating in the project, the large demand for municipal infrastructure and
the flexibility built into the design of the procedure for allocating funds would permrit shifting
loan funds to the municipalities with more capacity and/or interest by replacing non-performing
priority municipalities (by the municipalities from the reserve list).
5.7    Long-term strategic risks related to technical and procedural aspects of project
implementation arise from political commitment towards decentralization and municipal
governance (see Table 5.2 below). While the Government demonstrated a strong ownership of
institutional reform program, including organization of municipal elections before June 1998,
initial decisions will have to be confirmed during implementation. At the Mid-Term review, the
progress made will be assessed and appropriate corrective measures will be proposed, if
necessary. The second risk concerns the possibility of deterioration in human capital considering
the very low level of municipal staff salaries. This risk will be addressed through human
resources restructuring and, if feasible, implementation of appropriate wages in participating
municipalities.
Table 5.2: Long term strategic risks
Risk              Possible Cause       Mitigation Measures         By Whom
Institutional Aspects
Decentralization      Delays in municipal     Review of the status at    Government and IDA
focus                 elections               mid-term
Financial Risks
Financial Capacity    Govt /Municipal         Legal Remedies in       Ministry of finance
counterpart funding    DCA                     and IDA
Borrowing Capacity    Repayment of the MDF   Withdrawal from          Minister of Finance
loans by municipality  municipal budget
Technical/Procedural
Programming           Lack of maintenance     Cost recovery strategy  PCU, Ministry of
capacity                                      developed during        Finance, and
project preparation     Municipality
Human capital         Low wages Inadequate    Revision of the salaries    Ministry of Finance,
deteriorates          management                                      PCU and Municipality
To minimize these risks (Rated: Medium Risks), the proposed program will be phased
and appropriate adjustment will be made based on real progress. Allocation of resources based
on performance, regular review of the development policy agreement and close monitoring of
Municipal Development Agreements would make these risks acceptable.



36
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.    CONDITIONS AND AGREEMENTS
6.1    The following agreements were reached with GoG during negotiations:
(a)  State Program for Municipal Development, prepared by the RPMS, outlining the
decentralization objectives, process, and tentative schedule [see para. 2.31;
(b)  Eligibility criteria for investment projects [see para. 2.4];
(c)  List of potential auditing firms and terms of reference of municipal audits [see
para. 2.8a];
(d)  Content and format of the Financial and Administrative Rehabilitation Plans and
the Priority Investment Plans [see para. 2.8c];
(e)  Content and format of the Municipal Development Agreement to be signed
between the central government and the participating municipalities [see para.
2.8d];
(f) Definition of support activities program at the central and local government levels,
including in particular: T.A., training, and studies [see para. 2.9];
(g)  Overall financing mechanisms, including the interest rates and credit conditions
for municipalities [see para. 2.12];
(h)  Functions and responsibilities of the MDF Coordination Commission with
members and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA [see para. 2.13];
(i)   Cofinancing for the project [see para. 3.6];
(j)   Cost sharing mechanism and financing conditions for subprojects, acceptable to
the Government and IDA; [see para. 3.9];
(k)  Contract management arrangements for implementation of investment activities
[see para. 4.3c];
(I)  Project implementation arrangements, including implementation plan,
procurement and disbursement arrangements, and reporting requirements [see
paras. 4.4 and 4.5];
(m) Performance indicators to monitor project success and long term development
objectives [see paras. 4.6];



37
(n)  Mid-term review, such that project may be re-designed together with the
Government and IDA, including the question whether and to what extent Abkhazia
or South Ossetia may be included in the project [see para. 4.7];
(o)  Supervision schedule of project implementation [see para. 4.8];
(p)  Operational reporting and accounting systems for the PCU and MDF following
international accounting standards [see para. 4.30]; and
(q)  PCU and MDF will conduct annual independent financial and management audit,
and MDF will additionally conduct technical audits, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA [see para. 4.31].
6.2    Prior to Negotiations, the GoG submitted the draft Decree establishing the Municipal
Development Fund and the Project Coordination Unit, and the draft Charters of the Municipal
Development Fund and the Project Coordination Unit [see paras. 4.3a and 4.3b].
6.3    Prior to Board Presentation, the GoG transmitted the signed Presidential Decree and
Charter establishing the PCU and the MDF and the decision appointing the Executive Director of
the PCU and the MDF [see paras. 4.3a and 4.3b].
6.4   In addition to the conditions of effectiveness set out in the Bank's General Conditions,
the following Conditionsfor Credit Effectiveness must be fulfilled by the Borrower in
accordance with the subsequent provisions:
(a)  Operational Manual, acceptable to IDA, shall have been adopted for the MDF by
the Coordination Commission and for the PCU by the Regional Policy and
Management Service of the President of Georgia [see para. 4.4];
(b)  Management Information System, acceptable to IDA, shall have been adopted and
integrated in the PCU and MDF management and accounting systems [see para.
4.30];
(c)  Two initial deposits, of US$200,000 equivalent and US$50,000 equivalent of
Government contributions, shall have been deposited in Project Accounts A and B
respectively by the Borrower [see para. 3.4]; and
(d)  Three municipal audit, carried out in accordance with the norms and procedures
stated in the Operational Manual shall have been completed [see para. 2.8a].
B.    RECOMMENDATION
6.5    Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 15.1 million (US$20.9 million equivalent) to Georgia on standard
IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years.



MDDP                                        38                                  Annex I
Page 1 of 3
bWAM933CUb b4bJEWFOO AGDOCZM04
STATE CHANCELLERY OF GEORGIA
Mr. Basil Kavalski
Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Department IV
Assistant Director
The World Bank
MUNICIPAL SECTOR POLICY LETTER
Overview
1.    The symptoms of weakness common to local government institutions in most of the FSU are
particularly acute in Georgia, because of the mutually reinforcing effects of recent economic recession,
infrastructure decay, war and the general breakdown of civil order. The most significant problems
specific to local governments include: (a) a little accountability to residents because of a lack of
mechanisms allowing constituents to monitor the actions of local officials; (b) a lack of systematic
internal regulations (most local government units operate on the basis of central government directives;
(c) inefficiencies in the management of local government functions, caused mainly by an unclear
allocation of responsibilities among local officials and between units, as well as overstaffing.
2.     The Government recognizes that any successful strategy aimed at revitalizing the economy and
social texture of Georgia cannot exclude the establishment of a representative and modem local
government sector. This principle is explicitly upheld in the Constitution, which states (article 2.4):
"Georgian Citizens shall arrange local affairs through self-government, without the violation of national
sovereignty. The rule of establishment of local self-government bodies, their powers and relationships
with state bodies will be determined by organic law.
Main Objectives of Institutional Reform
3.    In view of the above, the Government of Georgia has decided to implement a comprehensive
decentralization strategy consistent with Georgia's long-term economic and administrative needs. The
strategy is based on the Municipal Development Program approved by the Government of Georgia and
its main objectives are described below:
Solving the issues of local importance through self-governance, based on self-organization of the
local society. This objective could be achieved through: (i) creation of the legal and regulatory
framework in conducive for the establishment and development of local self-governance, in accordance
with the Constitution of Georgia;



MDDP                                        39                                   Annex I
Page 2 of 3
(ii) definition of the nature and scope of the rights and responsibilities assigned to local government
bodies; (iii) promotion of greater transparency and accountability in local governance; and (iv) clear
definition of the institutional and economic relationships between the local govemment bodies and the
central government.
Development of local social-economic infrastructure, improvement of social services and social
protection. This could be achieved through: (i) legal and regulatory framework which would clearly
define the state and municipal property; (ii) promoting the fiscal and economic independence of the local
government bodies and creating in conducive environment for the local revenue mobilization; (iii)
improved service delivery for the population, by introducing competition among service providers,
assessment criteria and better targeted municipal service investments; (iv) improved utilization of local
resources for the development of local social infrastructure; (iv) establishment of the Municipal
Development Fund which within the framework of the Municipal Contract will finance the development
of local social-economic infrastructure; and (v) development of information systems at the local
government bodies and their integration into the state information system database.
Progress to Date on Institutional Reform
4.     The Government and the Parliament of Georgia have already undertaken important steps toward
a comprehensive reform of the structure and functions of subnational governance in the country. For the
municipal sector development the most important one was the Presidential Decree No. 362 of September
16, 1995, which approved a temporary regulation "on Local State Administration Body". The above
charter laid the foundation for the transition from centralized system to self-governance. The first result
of this process was the recent preparation of the draft law "On Local Self-govemance and
Administration", which currently is being discussed at the respective parliamentary committee.
S.     The draft law above will be discussed in the Parliament in May-June, 1997 and its adoption will
be the first step towards the introduction of a comprehensive legal framework for local governance. The
next step implies the preparation of municipal and local elections, definition of the self-governance
status, preparation of the Laws on Municipal Property, before the end of 1997.
6.     Since the jurisdiction of Georgia is not completely restored, implementation of the State-
Territorial Arrangement reform is pending. Nevertheless the Government has already an established
strategy for this reform, which is aimed at the definition of the roles and functions of the regional
(highest) level of local administration and differentiation of the competence spheres among different
governance levels, based on the principles outlined in the Constitution.
The reform period (2 years) for the implementation of self-govemance and state-territorial arrangement
is considered by the Government as a transition period. Within this period the main elements of the
democratic local administration should be implemented.
Implementation Strategy
7. In consideration of the above, the Government of Georgia will use the proposed Municipal
Decentralization and Development Program (MDDP) to support the implementation of the



MDDP                                        40                                   Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
initial phase of the municipal sector reforms. The Government commits itself to the following
actions/programs:
a) To adopt the State Municipal Development Program not later than July 1997;
(b) To preserve the momentum of the current legal reform. This will include, among other actions, the
following: (i) presentation of the envisaged new laws to Parliament (including any revision to the budget
law implemented to account for new local government legislation) based on a realistic timetable; (ii)
transmission to the Bank of all newly approved legislation on local governance; (iii) to held the local
administration elections ASAP and not later than June 1998;
(c) To introduce - in a progressive and timely manner - the institutional and regulatory
framework required for the implementation of new legislation on local government.
(d) To adopt, in consultation with the Bank, a viable and transparent mechanisms for the transfer of
central budgetary resources to municipalities targeted for investments under the Municipal Development
Fund (MDF) component of the proposed MDDP. This will also entail the introduction of clear
procedures for the establishment of Municipal Contracts between the central government and potential
beneficiary municipalities outlining the overall objectives of the latter over a period of years.
(e) To provide - through such legal, institutional and financial measures as may become appropriate over
time - the explicit overarching objectives of the proposed MDDP, namely: (i) assisting in institutional
capacity - building toward the implementation of the decentralization process at the central and local
government level; (ii) promoting the improvement of financial and administrative management as well as
municipal investment; (iii) supporting urgent local investments; (iv) generating employment
opportunities; and, (v) creating an environment conducive to private sector involvement in the municipal
sector.
The Government of Georgia looks forward to this important development strategy, whose impact - in
terms of improved governance and more reliable service delivery - will be felt by a large segment of
Georgia's population.
Aide to President on Economic Reforms                   Head of the Regional Policy and
Administration Service of the
President of Georgia
Temur Basilia                                           Badri Khatidze
22. 05. 1997.



MDDP                                   41                                 Annex2
Page I of 4
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT DESCRIPTION
1.    The MDDP would consist of two components: the institutional development
conponent and the investment component, The institutional development component would
focus on two priorities: improving municipal management and sthreghtening the central
government's capacity to implement effectively the planned decentralization program.
2. The project would consist of the following subcomponents:
A.    MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT SUBCOMPONENT
(US$1.4 million of which IDA Credit US$1.3).
This component would include the following activities for the municipalities::
(1)    General Municipal Management Improvement (US$0.5 million), including:
a. Preparation of Contract Development Agreements (MC) for all 15 municipalities
participating in the project. This will include: muncipal audits, financial and
administrative development plan as well as priority investment plan.
b. Organization and management improvement, including improvement of servies to the
public, development of simplified administrative procedures, and the implementation
of methods to increase participation by the poublic in municipal affairs;
c. Strengthening municipal planning and programming procedures, including the budget
process.
d. Human resource planning, including the development of a career and incentives
structure within municipalities, the definition of training needs, and the strengthening
of personnel departments..
e. Physical investment project implementation management, including the design of an
investment project management system at the municipal level and technical assistance
to help municipalities maintain and operate the infrastructure under their control.
f. Sector-specific planning, for example, regarding social programs, the administration of
subsidies, community services (eg., street lighting, garbage collection, park
maintenance), health services, and environmental protection. This activity would
include the development of strategies to enable municipalities to assume more
effectively responsibilities in sectors that have been or will be transferred to them.
g. Pre-investment studies, including feasibility studies for investment projects that
transcend a single municipal jurisdiction, or that would produce particularly good
results in terms of cost recovery, or that define other innovative investments that
would help municipalities improve their overall performance.



MDDP                                    42                                  Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
(2)    Financial Mangement Strengthening (US$0.6 million), including:
a. Improvedfinancial planning, including the introduction of new financial planning
techniques and assistance to help municipalities link capital and multt-annual budgets
with their development plans.
b. Improvedfinancial record-keeping, including the introduction of municipal chart of
account to improve financial control and management accountability.
c. Design and implementation of simplified land register system, consolidating current
information about ownership of land, to permit efficient collection of the real estate tax
and also for land-use planning.
d. Improved revenue collection, expense control, and cost recovery strategies, including
the implementation of new procedures to enable timely and complete collection of
revenue, and the identification of potential sources and methods of cost recovery in the
selected municipalities.
(3)   Municipal Management Information Systems (US$0.3 million), including:
a. Management-oriented information systems. These systems would integrate
information from the various sectors of a municipality (eg., financial record-keeping
and land-register), and would progressively become the basis for a cohesive reporting
system-
b. Sector-specffic information systems. The project would support the specification,
acquisition and implementation of information systems needed to address the
management needs of specific municipal sectors.
B   NATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
(US$4.3 million of which IDA Credit US$3.3).
(1)    National Information Systems of Municipalities (US$0.2 million), including:
a. National information system. This subcomponent would involve the design and pilot
implementation of a nationwide information system on Georgian municipalities, which
would enable the comparative evaluation of municipalities. The feasibility of creating
consolidated municipal accounts (a complete and consistent set of accounts for the
municipal, regional and national levels of government) would be evaluated. General
guidelines for the development and acquisition of information systems at the
municipal level would also be provided through this activity to ensure effective and
efficient information exchange.
b. Municipal management performance indicators. They will be incorporated into a pilot
municipal rating system. These performance indicators would be used to rate



MDDP                                     43                                  Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
municipalities by such criteria as overall efficiency, fiscal discipline, cost recovery,
debt-carrying capacity, etc.
c. Evaluation and monitoring system. This activity includes the defimtion and
implementation of a methodology for evaluating the impact of the project in terms of
its objectives as well as providing a continuous assessment of the effectiveness of the
project execution process.
(2)   Analysis of Policy Alternatives (US$0.3 million), including:
a. Analysis of municipal policy alternatives. Three activities are planned under this sub-
component: (i) improving the intergovemmental fiscal relationship, (ii) reforming the
social housing strategy, (iii) analysing the urban land development policy. The primary
goal is to improve the incentives in the national/municipal system for more efficient
management at the municipal level. These activities would analyze exisiting criteria
for all national/municipal cooperation and seek to identify changes improving
effectiveness at the municipal level. The feasibility of, and appropriate timing for, the
introduction of changes would also be assessed.
b. Analysis of administration policy alternatives. The objective is to improve the
performance of municipal employees and internal municipal organizational units.
Recommendations would be developed on choices for possible changes, and on the
appropriate process for theirimplementation. This activity would be done in
conjunction or close coordination with the corresponding municipal activity (see
above).
c. Multi-yearfinancialplanning. This activity would examine national and
internationalexperiences in multi-year financial planning to produce a simple manual
for use at the municipal level. This activity would be done in conjunction or close
coordination with the corresponding municipal activity (see above).
(3)    Evaluation Of The Impact Of Regional And Sector Investments On Municipal Finance
(US$0.1 million), including the analysis of:
a. Impact of municipal investments in the areas of health, education, housing, and
infrastructure on other current expenditures.
b. Needforfurther coordination of these investments within the public sector to prevent
negative effects on local development.
(4)   Project Coordinating Unit (US$2.4 million), including
Management and operational strengthening. Technical assistance would be required by
the PCU related to its responsibilities for strengthening municipal management and
increasing the performance in resource mobilization. Review of Municipal Development
Ageements implementation will alos be part of PCU's responsibility.



MDDP                                    44                                 Annex 2
Page 4 of4
(5)    Municipal Development Fund (US$0.1.3 million), including:
Management, initial investment, and operational costs. Technical assistance would be
required by the MDF related to its responsibilities for project evaluation (economic and
fiancial analysis) and progress monitoring
3.    Training of municipal staff, including the development of courses and seminars, is
included in the respective activities of the Municipal Development Agreement. The PCU would
be responsible for identifying the best management and operational practices, both within
Georgian municipalities and internationally, and for facilitating the dissemination of these
practices to municipalities and other appropriate organizations.



MDDP                                    45                                  Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
PROJECT INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE
The status of local government sector reform
1.    Since 1995, Georgia has made considerable progress on the path toward local
government sector reform and the devolution of greater administrative and financial
responsibilities to subnational territorial entities. While the legal framework for a modem and
deconcentrated system of local governance is not yet fully in place, recent legislation and
executive action have laid the foundations for a paced but comprehensive reform policy in the
sector. The Law of Georgia on Local Self-Government and Administration - which is a modern
and far-reaching piece of legislation - is about to be introduced and, on the executive side, the
State Program for Municipal Development (SPMD) presents a preliminary but exhaustive
strategy for central government assistance (economic, institutional and other) to the local
government sector, designed by the President's Regional Policy and Management Service
(RPMS) in full cooperation - and mutual reinforcement - with the Parliament.
The State Program for Municipal Development
2.     The SPDM is a relatively comprehensive document outlining the program for local
government sector reform in Georgia. It was drafted in recognition of the present conditions
faced by the country with respect to: (i) government organization and structure; (ii) scarce local
administrative capacity; (iii) wide-spread mistrust of authority; (iv) infrastructure decay and (v)
concerns related to internal stability. In all these areas Georgia is faced with a compelling
challenge, which will require the pooling of national and local resources toward long-term
comprehensive solutions. The SPMD lays out the main procedural steps in the overall proposed
reform plan in local governance, as follows: (i) preparation of laws and other acts in cooperation
with Parliament, as well as Presidential decrees; (ii) methodological assistance to local
government bodies involved in the reform program; (iii) adoption of initial local programs of
municipal development; (iv) introduction of staff training for local self-government bodies; (v)
coordination among different state entities involved in the SPMD; (vi) establishment of a local
information system; and (vi) support to the activity of non-governmental organizations. Toward
the achievement of the above objectives, the SPMD proposes the establishment of Regional
Programs for Municipal Development, funded by the central government based on the principle
of national participation in the rehabilitation of local infrastructure and overall development of
subnational territorial entities.
Synergies between the State's reform program and the proposed MDDP
3.     The MDDP was appraised at a time (May, 1997) when both the Parliament and the
RPMS were at a crucial juncture in the local government sector reform program. The Law on
Local Self-Government and Administration was about to be voted on by a plenary session of the
Legislative, and the SPMD was due for presentation to the Cabinet by the Head of the RPMS. In
the Municipal Sector Policy Letter (see Attachment 1), which summarizes the Government's
future reform strategy, the MDDP occupies a central role. The document states that "the
Government of Georgia will use the proposed Municipal Development and Decentralization
Program (MDDP) to support the implementation of the initial phase of its municipal sector



MDDP                                   46                                 Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
reforms". In light of this, both the institutional development and the physical investment
components of the project could have very high returns in terms of capacity building at the
central and local levels.
The MDDP Cycle
4.    The proposed project design (Attachments A-C) attempts to capture and maximize these
potential - and desired - synergies between the MDDP and the Government's reform program.
(a)  Supported directly by the State Investment Committee (the highest decision-making
body in the country with regard to matters of foreign investment and assistance), the
project will benefit from the immediate and simultaneous involvement of both
central and local government institutions.
(see Attachment A).
(b)  Attachment B describes the process whereby local (municipal) development
objectives and the central government's overarching policy measures would come
together within the framework of the MDDP: based on the results of a successful
comprehensive municipal audit, which will generate afinancial/administrative
rehabilitation and apriority investment plan, a given beneficiary municipality and
the central government (through the PCU) would sign a Municipal Development
Agreement (MDA), a binding covenant which - in addition to describing the
municipality's priorities - would also contain the central government's proposed
assistance plan to the municipality, be it through the MDDP itself or through other
central resources and programs.
(c)  Once signed, the MDA would then be implemented as follows: (i) corrective
institutional measures under the financial/administrative rehabilitation plan would be
carried out jointly by the municipality and the PCU, and (ii) priority physical
investment(s) would be realized - at least partially - through the MDF, with a US$
500,000 ceiling for each investment project (see Attachment C). Any investment
benefiting from MDF funding, which would be always contingent upon the
unanimous approval by the Fund's seven-member Board, would then be managed by
Contract Management Consultants identified and hired by the MDF itself.
5.    The potential impact on local government reform that could derive from the entire
designcould be sumarized as follows:
(a)  the PCU will ensure the overall consistency between project objectives and
Government policy priorities. From an operational point of view, the PCU will
provide the required technical assistance to the participating municipalities and
central government agencies during the initial stage of the decentrtalization, and
(b)  the MDF will focus on investment financing through a transparent process. It will
provide the Government with the opportunity to test the effectiveness of a modern
mechanism to generate and support investment at the local level.



MDDP                                    47                                 Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
List of Selected Municipalities
6.    In addition to objective criteria and procedural transparency, the Government's desire to
ensure a homogenous geographic distribution of the Project's benefits was assigned high priority
during the selection of municipalities.
Regions         Priority Selection  Population   Reserve Selection   Population
(in thousand)                    (in thousand)
TBILISI          TBILISI             1,254.1
KAKHETI REGION    Telavi Raion              78.7     Dedoplistskaro           36.1
Raion
MTSKHETA TIANETI  Kazbegi Raion               6.2     1. Dusheti Raion         37.9
REGION                                         2. Mtskheta Raion        65.5
SHIDA KARTLI         Gori Raion           174.6    Khashuri Raion           69.6
REGION           _                  _
IMERETI REGION    Kutaisi                  240.6    Tkibuli Raion            36.4
SAMTSKHE -         Akhaltsikhe           54.3     Akhalkalaki Raion        70.8
JAVAKHETI REGION   Raion
RACHA-LECHKUMI  Ambrolauri                   17.0    Tsageri Raion            16.1
KVEMO SVANETI   Raion
GURIA REGION         Ozurgeti Raion       91.8     Chokhatauri Raion        26.7
SAMEGRELO-ZEMO   Zugdidi Raion              128.7    1. Mestia Raion           14.1
SVANETI REGION                                      2. Poti                  50.2
KVEMO KARTLI    Rustavi                   155.5    Gardabani Raion          120.2
REGION
ADJARA           Batumi               137.1    Kobuleti                 59.3
AUTONOMOUS
REPUBLIC



MDDP                                    48                                 Annex 3 -
Attachment A
Page 4 of 6
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
State
Investment
Committee
Political Options
Project Oversight
Municipalities                     State Chancellery
I__     Municipalities______ :__ .                             Program Coordination Unit
_ Municipal Management Priorities                                   Institutional Aspects
- prepare for Municipal Audit                                - Regulatory framework
- finalize the Financial and           ; 0 iE tl: :;; :X ;i.; t   - Management of Municipal Develop.
Administrative Development Plan                        ---    Agrement
- Prioritize local investment                               L- T.A> to Municipalities
- agree on Municipal Development                              T.A>- Training Program
Agreement                                                     Training Pro
Contract Management               COORDINATION                  Financial Aspects
Technical Aspects              COMMISSION               - Revenue Mobilization
- Local Counterparts
- Assist in implementation of                                   - Municipal Transfers
Municipal Developt. Agreements
- Procurement/supervision/handover
- Contract Manag. Consultants
- only consultant familiar with:
* experience in Bank proced.     Contractor/ Supplier/ Consultant
* technically suitable



MDDP                                    49                                       Annex 3
Attahment
Page 5 of 6
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
A MUNICIPALITY ON A VOLUNTARY BASIS
EXPRESSES INTEREST IN THE PROJECT APPROACH
This decision implies
V                             - rapid financial
ACCEPTANCE OF A  |                     capacity assessment
MUNICIPAL AUDIT                       - management review
Corrective Measures                 - technical capability
FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE                        PRIORITY INESTMENT PLAN
REHABILITATION PLAN
prepared by the municipal                         list of municipal priorities _
authorities with the assistance                    based on needs assessments
of local experts                             and existing infrastructure
Net cash flow from operating activities              - Volume of Investment retained
- increased maintenance of existing infra.           in the Municipal Priority Plan
+ additional effort in revenue mobilization         - Prioritization of investments
+ cost recovery strategy                            - Cost recovery mechanisms for
any new investment proposal
Cash outflow for new investments
MUNILIPAL                                 - Regional Authorities
DMPLEM EVETIOPMENTNsign- Project Coord. Unit
AGREEMENT                               - Ministry of Finance
,V
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AGREEMENT



MDDP                                        50         -Anau
AttachmentC
Page 6 of 6
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
IMPLEMENTATION
I    I                          ~~~~~MUNICIPALITY
Z.A. _   Asssta                Investment Proposal prepared for MDF funding
presented following the standard forLat (Procedures Manual)
1 DEVELOPMENT
- Municipal Development Agreement I          FUND
- Municipal request for MDF funding     Financial Analysis
- Cost Estimate of Specific Investment
MDF Coordination Commission
- eight members having equal rights                                   Coordination Commission
- no chairman                                                         - Ministry of Finance
- decision are unanimous (veto)                                       - State Chancellery
- PCU = secretariat                           MDF                     - Aid Coordination Unit
- meeting is open to interested parties  c                   4-   - Ministry of Economy
- minutes send to municipality            CoM I$ S                    - Program Coord. Unit (PCU)
- meeting at least once a month                                       - Local Government Rep.
- review within the limit of the                                      - Representative of Civil Society
Procedures Manual                                                   - Parliament. Loc. Gvt. Committee
t       | J~ustifiotion/Reques|l
YES                      Maybe                      NO
IMPLEMENTATION                    Municipality adjust the request
PHASE
CONTRACT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS]
- hire the consultants for detailed feasibility study
- hire the contractors
- carry out the supervision of works
- hand-over the investment
- provide support during early stage of management



MDDP                                     51                                   Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
PROJECT COST SUMMARY TABLES
Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$26.1 million, including taxes
estimated at US$5.2 million equivalent. A summary of the cost estimates by component is
provided in Tables 1-3.
Table 1: Summary of project cost estimates by component
Component                     IDA         Government           Total
Institutional Development
National Institutional Development         3.3              1.0              4.3
Municipal Institutional Development         1.3            0.1               1.4
Total Institutional Development            4.6              1.1              5.7
Physical Investments                       16.3            4.1              20.4
Total Project Costs                 1      20.9             5.2              26.1
A summary of the expenditure accounts is provided in Table 2 below.
Table 2: Summary of expenditure accounts by component
(US$ Million)         Foreign   Total Base
Components               Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange     Costs
1. Institutional Development         2.9        1.1     4.0         28         22
2. Municipal Investments             9.9       4.5    14.4          31          78
Total BASELINE COSTS                12.8        5.6    18.4         31         100
Physical Contingencies               1.0       0.4      1.4         28           8
Price Contingencies                   1.0      0.1      1.1          9           6
Total PROJECT COSTS                 14.8       6.1    20.9          29         114
(excluding local contribution)
Local Contribution                   5.2         0      5.2          0          28
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 20.0       6.1    26.1          23         142
(including local contribution)
A summary of the financing plan by financiers is provided in Table 3 below.
Table 3: Financing Plan by Financiers
estimates                               (US$ Million)
Local          Foreign        Total      % of Total
IDA a/                         14.8            6.1          20.9           74
GOVERNMENT:
(a) Central                    1.1              0            1.1           4
(b) Local                      4.1              0            4.1           15
DONORS b/                                      2.0           2.0           7
Tota                 l                SA           zu            100
Note:   a/ The amount of IDA Credit includes PPF in amount of US$0.4 million.
b/ Government is seeking US$2 million in Donor financing



MDDP                                                      52                                                   Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATIOMN PROGRAM
CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT COST TABLE
|-BASE COST         ]        CONTINGENCIES         | TOTAL
I Unit Cost I  Total      Physical Financial   Total    COST
A. MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT SUBCOMPONENT                          1,298,000 |          194,700    194,700)  1,492,7001
-1 General Municipal Management Improvement                                   473,250       -     70,988     70,988     544,238
a. Assistance in preparation of Municipal Contracts (MC)  Consult    5,000     75,000              11,250    11,250      86,250
Number of municipalities:             15
b. Organization and management improvement (budget)      Study                 50,000              7,500      7,500      57,500
c. Strengthening municipal planning/programming          Study                 60,000              9,000      9,000      69,000
d. Human resource management strategy                    Study                 80,000             12,000     12,000      92,000
e. Investment project implementation methodology         Study                 40,000              6,000      6,000      46,000
f. Sector-specific planning and administration guidelines  Study               70,000             10,500     10,500      80,500
g. Multiple jurisdiction pre-investment studies          Studies               98,250             14,738     14,738     112,988
-2 Financial Mangement Strengthening                                          561,350             84,203     84,203     645,553
a. DevelopmentUlmplementation of financial planning techniques    TAlTraining  100,000             15,000    15,000     115,000
b. Development/lmplementation of accounting standards    TA/Training          140,000             21,000     21,000     161,000
c. Design and implementation of simplified land register system  TA/Training  111,350             16,703     16,703     128,053
d. Developmentl/mplementation of revenue collection strategy  TA/Training     210,000             31,500     31,500     241,500
-3 Municipal Management Information Systems                                   263,400       -     39,510     39,510     302,910
a. Integrated management-oriented information system     Study                 80,000             12,000     12,000      92,000
b. Develop. of sector-specific information systems       TA/Training          183,400             27,510     27,510     210,910
[B  NATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT                               3,619,712   105,388  542,957    664,153   4,283,865
-1 National Information Systems of Municipalities                             146,200       -     21,930     21,930     168,130
a. National information system                           Study                 50,000              7,500      7,500      57,500
b. Municipal management performance indicators           Study                 26,200              3,930      3,930      30,130
c. Development/Implementation of monitoring system       TA/Training           70,000             10,500     10,500      80,500
-2 Analysis of Policy Altematives                                             228,750       -     34,313     34,313     263,063
a. Analysis of municipal policy alternatives                                  111,350       -     16,703     16,703     128.053
i            Intergovernmental fiscal relationship       Study      30,000
ii           Social housing reform strategy              Study      30,000
iii          Urban land development policy               Study      25,000
b. Administration policy alternatives                    Study                 65,000              9,750      9,750      74,750
c. Multi-year financial planning                         Study                 52,400       -      7,860      7,860      60,260
[-3 Evaluation Of The Impact Of Regional And Sector Investments On Municipal FIna    85,000        ' 12,750   12,750      97,750
a. Impact of municipal investments                       Study                 20,000              3,000      3,000      23,000
b.  Development/Implementation of pilot activity          TA/Training          65,000               9,750     9,750      74,750
-4 Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)                                           2,037,142   68,532  315,851    384,383   2,421,525
a. PCU Staffing                                                               452,952       -     67.943     67,943     520,895
b. PCU Operating Cost                                                         774,240    45,101   122,901    168,002    942,242
c. PCU Investment Cost                                                        809,950    23,432 | 125,007    148,439    958,389
-5 Municipal Development Fund (MDF)                                         1,122,620    36,856   173,921    210,777   1,333,397
a. MDF Staffing                                                               486,070       -     72,910     72,910     558,980
b. MDF Operating Cost                                                         484,800    28,858   77,049    105,906     590,706
c. MDF Investment Cost                                                        151,750     7,998 !  23,962    31,961     183,711
GRAND TOTAL INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT                                      4,917,712   105,388   753,465    858,853 |  5,776,565



MDDP                                                      53                                                    Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATIOMN PROGRAM
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT RECURRENT COSTS
EXPENDITURES                               Number    Cost    Number    Base               CONTINGENCIES           TOTAL
staff  r(pr month) months     Cost    Physical Financial  Total      COST
9%      15%
-1  PCU STAFFING                                                               452,952                              567,943  7,943  20,895
Head PCU                                          1        750       48     47,160              7,074     7,7        g,3
Inst./H. R. Spec.                                 1        500       48      31,440             4,716     4,716      36,156
Municip. Manag. Spec.                             1        500       48      31,440             4,716     4,716      36,156
Fin. Spec.                                        1        500       48      31,440             4,716     4,716      36,156
Office Manager                                    1        400       48      25,152             3,773     3,773      28,925
MIS Manager                                       1        400       48      25,152             3,773     3,773      28,925
Accountant                                        1        300       48      18,864             2,830     2,830      21,694
Assistants                                        4        200       48      50,304             7,546     7,546      57,850
Total Local Salaries                             11      3,550      384    260,952       -     39,143    39,143     300,095
Strengthening of PCU
TA Municipal Expert             1     12,000        6     72,000             10,800    10,800      82,800
TA Financial Expert             1      12,000      10    120,000             18,000    18,000     138,000
Total TA PCU                                      2     24,000       16    192,000       -     28,800    28,800     220,800
-2  Operating Costs                                                            774,240   45,101  1122,901   168,002     942,242
Office rent                                       1       1,000      48      57,600    5,184    9,418    14,602      72,202
Utilities                                         1        200       48      11,520    1,037    1,884     2,920      14,440
Communication     Local calls (Phone/Fax)         1         50       48       2,880      -        432      432        3,312
International Calls             1        400       48     23,040       -      3,456     3,456      26,496
Email                          15         50       48     43,200       -      6,480     6,480      49,680
Local Travel      (two times a months)           15        100       96    144,000       -     21,600    21,600     165,600
Intemational Travel                               1      3,000        4      12,000      -      1,800     1,800      13,800
Office Supplies                                  15        300       48    259,200   23,328   42,379    65,707      324,907
Fuel for vehicles                                 3        500       48      86,400    7,776   14,126    21,902     108,302
Office maintenance                                1        200       48      11,520    1,037    1,884     2,920      14,440
Equip. maintenance                                1        200       48      11,520    1,037    1,884     2,920      14,440
Car maintenance                                   3        200       48      34,560    3,110    5,651     8,761      43,321
PCU Audit                                         1      10,000       4     48,000       -      7,200     7,200      55,200
Miscellanous                                      1        500       48      28,800    2,592    4,709     7,301 |    36,101
-3  Investment Costs                                                           809,950   23,432  125,007   148,439      958,389
Municipal AudIt                                   15      10000        2   360,000             54,000    54,000     414,000
Training/Workshop                                15      2,000        4    157,200             23,580    23,580     180,780
Computer Equipment                          (15 +5)                         136,800   12,312   22,367    34,679     171,479
Server                          1      10,000   10,000
Processor                      20      2,000   40,000
UPS                            20        400    8,000
Monitor                        20        500   10,000
Printer                        20       1,000   20,000
Network Interface              20        200    4,000
Backup                         20        800   16.000
Modem                          20        300    6,000
Software                                         15      2,000              36,000    3,240    5,886      9,126      45,126
Office equipment                                                             75,000    6,750   12,263    19,013      94,013
Fox                            15        600    9,000
Photocopier                    15      3,500   52,500
Overhead Projector              2        500    1,000
Fumiture                                          1      5,000                6,000     540       981     1,521       7,521
Vehicles                                          3      9,000               32,400
Miscellanous                                      1       5,000               6,550     590    1,071      1,660       8,210
|     ORAND TOTAL                                                               2,037,142 1 e8,532  315,851   384,383



MDDP                                                     54              .                                   Annex 4
page 4 of 4
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATIOMN PROGRAM
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND RECURRENT COSTS
EXPENDITURES                           Number  Cost    Number    Total               CONTINGENCIES            TOTAL
staff |permonth| months I   Cost   I Physical  Financial   Total     COST
9%       15%
-1 MDF STAFFING                                                          486,070       -      72,910    72,910    558,980
MDF Manager                                  1      915       48       57,535               8,630     8,630     66,165
Financial Analyst                            1      780       48       49,046               7,357     7,357     56,403
Economist                                    1      600       48       37,728               5,659     5,659     43,387
Municipal Engineer                           1      500       48       31,440               4,716     4,716     36,156
MDF Office Manager                           1      400        48      25,152               3,773     3,773     28,925
MDF Information System Manager               1      400        48      25,152               3,773     3,773     28,925
Accountant                                   1       300       48       18,864              2,830     2,830     21,694
Assistants                                   2       200       48       25,152              3,773     3,773     28,925
Total Local Salaries                         9     4,095      384     270,070       -      40,510    40,510    310,580
Strengthening of MDF
Procurement Advisor                          1    12,000       10      120,000             18,000    18,000    138,000
TA Financial Expert                          1    12,000       4       48,000               7,200     7,200     55,200
Banking Expert                               1    12,000       4       48,000               7,200     7,200     55,200
Total TA MDF                                 2    24,000        8     216,000              32,400    32,400    248,400
-2 Operating Costs                                                       484,800    28,858    77,049   105,906    590,706
Office rent                                  1     1,000       48      57,600     5,184     9,418    14,602     72,202
Utilities                                    1      200       48       11,520      1,037    1,884     2,920     14,440
Communication      Local calls (Phone/Fax)   1       50       48        2,880       -        432       432       3,312
Intemational Calls       1       500       48       28,800       -      4,320     4,320      33,120
Email                    1        50       48        2,880       -        432       432       3,312
Local Travel       (two times a months)     2       300       48       28,800       -       4,320     4,320     33,120
International Travel                        2      3,000       4       24,000       -       3,600     3,600     27,600
Office Supplies                              1      400       48       23,040     2,074     3,767     5,841     28,881
Fuel for vehicles                            2      500       48       57,600     5,184     9,418    14,602     72,202
Office maintenance                           1      200        48      11,520      1,037    1,884     2,920     14,440
Equip. maintenance                           1      200       48       11,520     1,037     1,884     2,920     14,440
Car maintenance                              2      200        48      23,040     2,074     3,767     5,841     28,881
Communication Campaign                       2     10000        4      96,000     8,640    15,696    24,336    120,336
MDF Audit                                    1    16,000       4       76,800              11,520    11,520     88,320
Miscellanous                                 1      500       48       28.800     2,592     4,709     7,301     36,101
-3 Investment Costs                                                      151,750     7,998    23,962    31,961    183,711
TrainingANorkshop                            2     6,000        4      62,880               9,432     9,432     72,312
Computer Equipment                                                     40,800     3,672     6,671    10,343     51,143
Server                   1     6,000    6,000
Processor                6     Z000   12000
UPS                      6       400    2,400
Monitor                  6       500    3,000
Printer                  6      1,000    6,000
Network Interface        6       200    1,200
Backup                   2       800    1,600
Modem                    6       300    1,800
Software                                     1     2,000                2,400       216       392      608       3,008
Office equipment                                                        5,520       497       903     1,399      6,919
Fax                      1       600      600
Photocopier              1      3,500    3,500                   -        -         -          -
Overhead Projector       1       500      500
Fumiture                                     1    10,000               12,000     1,080     1,962     3,042     15,042
Vehicles                                     2     9,000               21,600      1,944    3,532     5,476     27,076
Miscellanous                                 1     5,000                6,550       590     1,071     1,660      8,210
GRAND TOTAL                                                          1,122,620 1  36,866   173,921   210,777 1 1



{e~~~~~~~~~0 S        3j33           g3' 
. .    . . . ... ......... .   ,.. . .    . .    . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . .   .s
*~~~~ .t. .                    f.j ..j
CPR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-4  4 4 4- - - -           -4 4- -      C            S E | |7 f     
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h .    _:
m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0m
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L -  
|1j      ..       E...           
o
Z JiO T aSea
Sxauuv                 SSd(ICI



GEORGIA: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
_____, 1 R 11998 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~999                                                     1 2000        12001                         12002 f
ID    TaskNe                    DurtIon !Sta        ! Finsh    02   03  0Q4  01   Q2   Q3  0a4   01 Sa02 F        03   04   01  Q2 I03 J Q4  Q            2  0 Q3   Q4  Q1
23       Auditors acceptable to ID!   1Wd   8a27n97      WI7
24       MunicipalAuiditof3Mun'       15d    9t10097    997'W|9/30,
26       Project becomes Effectivw     ld    1O/197    10/1197
26   Implementation Begins         1010d      1019197    8122101                                                                                                  Implementa
27       Selection of Municipalitie  400d    109-97    4(21W99    .                                         4J21
28       Municipal Contract signec  450d;  10/1697       717199
29       Catalogue of Investrent I  200d   10/3097       815%96
30       Procuremnt Plan submittE    40d   11l/2as7    1/14198
31       Institutional Dev Projects  750d    1/15 5M    1 1/29)00                                                                                11129
32       Physical Investment Proj   75Cd    2/12196   12/27#W      .12127
33       PCU submits proposal to    500d    2/1219      1/1200    .112
34       Project Appraisal Criteria  150d    3/12196    10f7198
36       Project Approval           750d    10/819      8/22A)1                                                                                                  8122
36       Quarterly Report Due       860d.  4/9B         8/15101                                                                                                 8115
37       Finanicial Audit Due       860d    4/396    8/15101    .               .                                                                               8/16         |
38       Technical Audit Due        860d    4/386    8/15001                                                                                                    8/16
39       Annual Proect Review         15d   10/15          11/4)9e    .                            41A
40       Mid Term Project Review      15d     92/299    9/22       . g                                                 9122
41        Relevant Skilis by 7/31i9  10d:   9/2399    10/6s99
42       Performance Indicators rn    15d    10/7199   10/271.99                                                         1027
43   ProJect Completed             1050d    10/2197   10/1C/01
44   Implementation Completion R;    120d    9/13101    2/27 2     .
Task                                   Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress                                              x
Project: Municipal Development and De  Progress                              Rolled Up Task                                          o
Date: 6~587                                                                        U                              
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone
Page 2



MDDP                                   57                                Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A.    Procurement Arrangements
1.    The procurement activities under this Project fall under two broad categories: (i) a line
of credit for $16.1 million to Georgian Municipalities through the MDF; and (ii) the Institutional
component for $4.8 million covering the various studies and consulting services, and small item
of equipment for PCU and MDF use.
2.    The municipal investments component (line of credit) would be implemented by the
MDF which has been created under a Charter by the GoG to channel funds to municipalities for
rehabilitating municipal infrastructure, including health and education facilities, roads, etc. The
procurement under this component would mainly relate to rehabilitation of small works, supply
and installation of equipment, and other small equipment and some spare parts. After extensive
discussions, it has been agreed that the procurement of goods, works, and services for this
component will be contracted by the MDF to independent contract management consultants
whose selection will be on competitive basis; the final selection of a CMC will however be
decided by an evaluation committee consisting of the PCU, MDF, and the concerned
Municipality representative. The CMCs will act as procurement consultants and will handle all
the phases of entire procurement process which will include advertisement, preparation of
bidding documents, assistance to MDF in bid evaluation, and contract administration. The
contracts with the contractors and suppliers will however be signed by the municipality officials
and countersigned by MDF executive director.
3.    To ensure compliance with Bank's Procurement Guidelines and procedures, including
standard bidding documentation, it has been agreed to provide procurement related TA to MDF
where bulk of the procurement will take place. The procurement specialist will be selected on
competitive basis and the main selection criteria will be the actual experience in Bank-financed
procurement. A foreign procurement expert will provide guidance to MDF and PCU on
procurement issues during the initial phase of project implementation, assist in the procurement
of equipment and consultant services for the PCU and MDF; and will help monitor the
performance of various CMCs contracted by the MDF for municipal investment project
procurement.
4.    The Institutional component consist of various studies, consulting services, and
procurement of information systems, including hardware and some office equipment. The PCU
and the MDF will each be responsible for their respective procurement activities. However, they
will be assisted by the MDF Procurement specialist in the tendering procedures and evaluation
process.
5.    The procedures to be followed by the municipality and MDF for procurement of goods,
civil works and consultant services, including the selection of contract management consultants,
for the municipal investments, and by the PCU for the institutional components, have been
incorporated into an Operational Manual which will serve as the operating guidelines to all the
entities involved in the Credit-financed procurement.
6.    These procedures are based on Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines and require
the use of Bank's standard bidding documents, evaluation reports, and contract formats for
goods, works, and consultant services. The Operational Manual is an essential tool for project
transparent and efficient implementation.



MDDP                                    58                                 Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
B.    Procurement Plan (in US$)
Details of Assignment       Total    Procurement  Implementatio    Observations
Value      Methods          n Date
(including                   (tentative)
contingenci
____________________________ es)
Municipal Investment Project   16,000,000  ICB, NCB, IS,    1998-2001    Credit line to
DC, NS                      municipalities
Goods and Equipment
1. Information Systems
(i) PCU Information Systems     176,000       is             1997
(hardware software)
(ii) MDF Information Systems     46,000       IS             1997
(hardware software)
2. Office equipment
(i) PCU and Municipalities       74,500       IS          1997-1998
(ii) MDF                          5,800       NS             1997
3. Furniture
(i) PCU                     |     6,400       NS             1997
(ii) MDF                         12,750       NS             1997
4. Vehicle
(i) PCU                          33,000       NS             1997       3 vehicles
(ii) MDF                         22,955       NS             1997       2 vehicles
T.A. and Consultants
A. Municipal Institutional Development
1. Municipal Management Improvement
(i) Preparation of Municipal     310,000     QCBS            1997        This study will
Development Agreements                                                focus on
(MDA), including                                                      providing the
Organization & Management                                             methodological
Improvement (budget),                                                 support to the
Strengthening Municipal;                                              municipalities at
Planning/Programming and                                              the initial stage
Human Resource                                                        of
Management Strategy.                                                  implementation.



MDDP                                   59                                Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
(ii) Investment Project         128,000       LC          1997-1998    Firm
Implementation Methodology
and Sector Specific Guidelines
(iii) Pre-Investment Studies     87,750     QCBS          1998-2001     Firrn
2. Financial Management Strengthening
(i) Development of Financial    526,700     QCBS          1997-1998     Firm
Management Techniques,
Resource Collection Strategy
and Implementation of
Accounting Standards
(ii) Develop.& Implementation of    100,000  QCBS         1998-1999    Firm
Land Register System
3. Municipal Management Information System
Development of an Integrated  374,600     QCBS          1997-1998    Firm
Management Information
System and Sector Specific
Information System
B. National Institutional Development
1. National Information System of Municipalities
Develop.& Implementation of   163,900     QCBS            1998       Firm
Performance Indicators and a
National Monitoring and
Evaluation System
2. Analysis of Policy Alternatives
Municipal Policy Alternatives  247,000    QCBS          1998-1999    Firm
(including the Fiscal, Housing,
Administration, Land, and
Multi-Year Financial Planning
approaches)
3. Evaluation of Impact of Regional and Sector Investments on Municipal Finance
Impact Evaluation of Pilot     99,000      LC             2000
Activities and Municipal
Investments



MDDP                                      60                                  Annex 7
Page I of 2
BANK EXPERIENCE IN MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
1.    The proposed project will benefit from the many lessons learned over more than a decade of
Bank experience in municipal development, worldwide. From the earliest Bank-financed municipal
development projects, the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) found that a strong
commitment from the central government to the principles of financially sound municipal
development, and to ongoing reforms, is essential for project success. Supervision, intensive during
project start-up, and consistent throughout project implementation was also found to increase the
likelihood of success.
2.     From the Brazil: Parana Market Towns Project (Ln 2343-BR), OED identified several key
factors contributing to project success, including:
(a) Local government support for the project's local level operations
(b)  Small subprojects of relatively simple design, for which municipalities themselves,
through community participation, had expressed a desire.
(c)  A competent, motivated team in charge of project management at the local level.
(d) Risk management by simultaneous initiation of subprojects in a number of towns, thus
reducing the average risks of delayed project execution as well as providing additional
political support.
3.     The ongoing Brazil Municipal Development Project in Parana and Rio Grande do Sul States
(Ln 3100-BR and Ln 3129-BR, respectively) have shown that eligibility criteria (such as the
preparation of detailed financial and institutional development plan ) for participation in municipal
development program should be clear and not excessively rigid. Clear and flexible eligibility
criteria foster increased participation and, at the same time, prevent delays in projects start-up and
disbursements
4.    In addition to the lessons learned from completed Bank projects in municipal development,
several Bank reviews provide lessons from both completed and ongoing projects germane to the
proposed project An Infrastructure and Urban Development Department (INURD) review of Bank
lending for municipal finance operations emphasizes that the primary objective of municipal
finance should not be simply the increased extraction of tax revenues for municipal use. Instead,
municipal finance operations must be designed as part of a broader effort to increase the
accountability of the public sector, through decentralization of control to the local level, and
through the creation of means and incentives that both allow and encourage local governments to
respond to local priorities. Thus, successful municipal finance reform must start, not with increasing
municipal revenues, but with improving the effectiveness and efficiency of municipal service
delivery.
5.    In conjunction with this objective, a Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional study (
Decentralization and Reform of the State - EMENA, The World Bank, September 1992) identified
direct user charges and betterment taxes as the preferred sources of municipal services, as these
confront final beneficiaries directly with the costs of municipal services, as well as promoting
accountability in resource allocation.



MDDP                                       61                                  Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
6. The INURD and EMENA reviews recommend that:
(a) The primary interlocutors for municipal finance reformn operations be at the national level,
as the impact and sustainability of any local level reform depend on the incentives
provided by the national government to the municipal governments;
(b) Technical assistance for municipal finance projects be explicitly action-oriented. In the
past, technical assistance often served as a substitute for reform; policy confrontations
were avoided by defining the policy context of projects solely in terms of abstract studies;
and
(c) a strong central agency in charge of the decentralization process has been key to the
success of past reforms.
7.     The Bank experience shows that in the context of municipal finance reform, the Bank
strives to foster accountability and transparency, to encourage the clear identification of
responsibilities at each level of government, and to confront consumers with the real costs of the
services they enjoy. All such actions usually have clear short-term political costs and only longer-
term, intangible benefits. Because of the resulting political difficulties inherent in
municipal finance reform, the Bank must:
(a) Plan for long term, multiple project investments and sustained policy dialogue with the
central government;
(b) Concentrate its resources on countries where institutional development and
decentralization are already underway; and
(c) Devote more staff resources to municipal development operations than it has in the past.
8.     Finally, a review of Bank experience in the provision of technical assistance makes the
following recommendations:
(a) Support upstream institutional development work in selected municipalities or regions;
(b) Assess the absorptive capacity of entities involved in institutional development to
minimize the risk of over-ambitious project design;
(c) Promote multiple approaches to, and instruments for, the support of complex institutional
development reforms; and
(d) Undertake periodic institutional assessments to examine the functions, strengths, and
weaknesses of, and linkages among, relevant institutions, as well as their legal and
regulatory framework as well as their performance incentives.
The design of the MDDP project is trying to integrate all relevant lessons learned by the Bank in the
municipal sector over the last ten year.



MDDP                                   62                                Annex 8
Page I of 2
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND SUPERVISION PLAN
A.    Project Implementation Responsibilities
1.    Table A. I summarizes the respective responsibilities of the different implementing and
coordinating agencies involved in the proposed Project. The relationship of the various entities
directly involved in the project implementation are described in the Operational Manual.
Table A. 1: Project Implementation Responsibilities
Project Component and Activity            Department/Entity Responsible
Overall Program Implementation           State Investment Council
Decentralization Policy                  RPMS
Coordination of Institutional Development  PCU
Municipal Development Fund management    MDF Unit
Municipal Development Fund - Decision    MDF - Coordination Commission
Investments                              Eligible Municipalities
Implementation Activities                Contract Management Consultant (CMC)
B.    Role of the World Bank During Supervision
2.    The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters
and the Resident Mission in Georgia.
3.    Recognizing that the proposed Project would be only the second Bank Project in the
municipal sector in Georgia involving construction of civil works and installation of mechanical
and electrical equipment, and the first in most of the secondary cities, it is anticipated that it
would require significant supervision. The supervision would concentrate on the first two years
when considerable input would be required for the engineering design and the procurement. In
addition, supervision by technical specialists would be required for the respective project
components, as described in the following sections. Savings would be realized by utilizing staff
from the Bank resident mission for project supervision. During the first year of implementation,
a project launch workshop would be organized to provide basic training for the staff of the
implementing agencies in procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing.
4.    It is anticipated that about 26 staff-weeks of effort for the first year and an average of
about 18 staff-weeks thereafter would be required for supervision. Following the start-up
mission and the project launch workshop, supervision requirements in the first two years would
include two supervision missions per year to coincide with the production of the progress reports
by the respective implementing agencies. In later years, one supervision mission would be
conducted each year. The final supervision mission would be to prepare the Project Completion
Report.
5.    A mid-term review would be conducted to evaluate project progress in general (in terms
of procurement, disbursements, status of construction works and other implementation aspects)
and to assess the status of agreed policy and institutional reforms.



MDDP                                      63                                   Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
C.    Supervision Plan
6.     The supervision plan below supplements the regular review requirements for
procurement actions, advisory services, and general administration. It is important to note that
this is the Bank's second investment project in the municipal sector, thus there exists some
limited local implementation experience. However, supervision will include technical assistance
experts from the Bank.
Approximate Dates             Activity           Expected Skill                 Staff-
(month/year)                                  Requirements                   Weeks
10-11 / 97      Supervision                  Task Manager                      10
(Project Launch)            Procurement Specialist
Institutional Specialist
Operations Assistant
Environment
2 - 3 / 98      Supervision                  Task Manager                       8
Review overall progress and   Institutional Specialist
the implementation of       Operations Assistant
procurement and accounting   Engineering
procedures.
5 - 6 / 98      Supervision                  Task Manager                      8
Review overall progress.    Institutional Specialist
Operations Assistant
9 / 98        Supervision                  Task Manager                       8
Review overall progress.    (others consultants as required)
I - 2 / 99      Preparation Mid-term        Task Manager                       8
Review                      (others as required)
Review overall progress.
6 - 7 / 99      Mid-term Review:             Task Manager                      6
Detailed project review and    (others as required)
compliance with covenants
11 - 12 / 99     Supervision                 Task Manager                       10
Review overall progress.    (others as required)
4 - 5 / 00      Supervision                  Task Manager                       8
Review overall progress.    (others as required)
10 -11 / 00      Supervision                 Task Manager                       8
Review overall progress.    (others as required)
2 - 3 / 01      Supervision                  Task Manager                      6
Review overall progress.    (others as required)
9 - 10 / 01     Supervision                  Task Manager                       10
(Project Completion)



MDDP                                             64                                       Annex9
Page I of 2
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Program Development Objectives      Key Performance Indicators       Measurement Parameter(s)
* Progressive improvement of        *  Number of sub-projects        *  Minimum of seven sub-projects
investment programming over the life   financed yearly by the MDF       approved during Year 1;
of the MDDP                         (Volume of activity)                 progressive increment over Year
2 to be determined by the end of
Year I and targets for Years 3-4
to be established at Mid-Term
review.
* Strengthening of local management   *  Cost-effectiveness in municipal  *  Incremental yearly progress (%)
capacity                               administration and decision-      against the results of the
making                           Financial and Administrative
*  Redirection of administrative    Rehabilitation Plan
budget components toward
improved municipal service
provision
*  Improved                         *  Frequent progress reports by the  *  Number of municipal council
Transparency/Accountability in      municipality to the population   meetings open to
Local Governance                    with regard to ongoing          the public (minimum: 4/year)
development plans and        *  Gradual but visible
activities                       improvement in the use of
media (print/audio-visual) to
inform the public on the
community's development.
* Improvement of mobilization of    *  Fiscal Reform adopted         *  +5% for Year 1; progressive %-
local resources                     *  Financial targets per             increases for successive years.
municipality/year
Project Components
* Institutional Development         *  Improved Development          *  Number of Municipal
Component                              Planning                         Contract/year
*  Human Resource Strategy       *  Number of people trained
* Physical Investment Component     *  Improved Procurement          *  Number of management
Capacity                         contracts signed/year
*  Increased Implementation      *  Value of the investment
Capacity                         program
*
Note: Targeted values would be re-defined on a yearly basis and revised at Mid-Term review.
Development impact assessment would be a major criteria in designing Phase 2 of the program



MDDP                                              65                                          Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
General Indicators for the PCU Performance
The PCU's management will be measured against the following criteria:
INDICATOR                      Year I     Year 2        Year 3      Year 4
Number of municipal audits conducted (as           40%          65%          80%    100%
percentage of total Municipal Investment
Component).
weeks
Average time for processing municipal audits (period  weeks  weeks        weeks        2
from specification completion to award of contract).  4        3            2
Number of Municipal Development Agreement          15%          25%          35%      25%
reviewed (as percentatge of total Municipal
Investment Component
General Indicators for the MDF Performance
The MDF's management will be measured against the following criteria:
IN'DICA TOR          Year 1       Year 2       Year 3   Year 4
Sub-contract amounts signed with municipalities (%  15%        30%           35%        20%
of total Municipal Investment Component).
Number of sub-contracts completed (% of total
Municipal Investment Component).                 10%           20%           30%        40%
Percentage of contracts completed on time
50%         70%          80%        90%
Percentage of contracts completed on budget.
50%         75%          90%        90%
Percentage of payments to suppliers and contractors
within 30 days of invoice reception.               70%          80%          90%        95%
Average time for processing sub-contracts (period
from specification completion to award of contract).   8 weeks  6 weeks  4 weeks    3 weeks



MDDP                                     66                               Annex 10
Page 1 of 5
ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Methodology
As identified in the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) currently under preparation,
the major environmental problems in Georgia revolve around two major developments: (i) the
degradation of natural resources; and (ii) the degradation of the urban environment. An underlying
problem/cause of Georgia's environmental troubles is the economic transition, which limits the
funding available and continues to exert mounting pressure on scarce natural resources resulting from
the inability of the urban areas to meet the physical and social needs. As a result, the cities face the
most serious urban environmental problems and require the most urgent attention. In addition, the low
quality of public services, principally in infrastructure maintenance, housing, and sanitation, constitute
the major areas of urban environmental concern in Georgia. No resettlement will be considered.
The impact of these environmental problems on health has not been recently assessed, but it is
clear that inadequate sanitation facilities contribute significantly to the prevalence of infectious
diseases. Poor provision of infrastructure is particularly hindering economic activities. These factors
particularly affect the urban poor and threaten to undermine the very foundations of the productive and
service economies of the country.
In order to maximize the impact of the whole project on the urban environment, the project
proposes a simplfied methodology for assessing the environmental impact of the subprojects financed
by the MDF. The standardized environmental impact assessment for every subproject will be included
in the Manual of Procedures. This methodology will be used by the beneficiaries in the process of
identifying subprojects to be financed through the project. The proposed methodology should help the
beneficiaries in assessing the positive impact and reducing or eliminating the negative impact of each
subproject on the urban environment.
The MDF's projects in the areas of sanitation and cleaning of urban drainage, urban renewal,
road maintenance, garbage collection, school and clinic rehabilitation will lead to significant
improvements in the urban environment. Particular attention has been given to the need for a fruitful
cooperation between the MDF and the Ministry of Environment.
The annual technical audits will also include an environmental component. In addition, for
the mid-term review, the PCU will commission an assessment of the environmental impact of the
subprojects carried out during the first half of the project. This review will examine all major
environmental issues to determine their impact and make recommendations on how to mitigate any
adverse impacts in the future.



MDDP                                                            67                                                 Annex 10
Page 2 of 5
SAMPLE FORM
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRLIZATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT FORM FOR SUB-PROJECTS
PROJECT  TITLEI  .     ..........................................................................................................
REGION:                       . .........................................................................................................
CITY:                          .........................................................................................................
PROJECT  SITE   ..........................................................................................................
FINANCING:                     .........................................................................................................
BENEFICIARY:    .........................................................................................................
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
11'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
11''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
11'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
..................................................................................................................................................
.............................................'''...................................................................................................
.........................................................................     .............................
..................................................................................................................................................



MDDP                                   68                             Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
(A) CHECKLIST
A. SOLID WASTE            (i) generates                              ye
Does the project?
(ii) collects                            +ve
(iii) disposes                E          + ve
(iv) none of the above         l         n
B. LIQUID WASTE           (i) generates                               e - ye
Does the project?                                     l 
(ii) collects                            +ve
(iii) disposes                El         + ve
(iv) none of the above         l         n
C. DRAINAGE               (i) generates                  m         - ye
Does the project                                       l
(surface water)         (ii) collects                             + ve
(ii) disposes                 El+ ve
(iv) none of the above        El         n
D. SANITATION             (i) generates                  m          - ye
Does the project?
(sewerage)              (ii) collects                  El         +ve
(iii) disposes                 l         + ve
(iv) none of the above        El         n
E. WATER RESOURCES   (i) reduces recharge                             e - ye
(ii) enhances recharge         l         + ve
(iii) pollutes g/water                    ve -ye
(iv) none of the above                   n



MDDP                                  69                             Annex 10
Page 4 of 5
F. LAND RESOURCES    (i) use up agric land             l          - ve
Does the project?       . 
(ii) use up green areas                 - ve
(iii) erodes the beach       rm         - ve
(iv) enhances land use                  + ve
(v) creates green ares       U          + ve
(vi) none of the aboven                 n
G. TRAFFIC               (i) increases traffic                      e - ye
Does the project?                                    l 
(ii) reduces traffic         rm         + ve
(iii) manages traffic                   + ve
(iv) none of the above        D         n
Number of negatives: -ve =
Number of positives: +ve =
Number of neutrals: n=
NET
B)    IMPACT IDENTIFICATION
From the above can be assessed the following questions related to the project's
enviromental soundness.
1.    Does the project have an impact on the environment ?
2.    What are the significant beneficial and adverse environmental effects of the
project?
3.    Does the project have any significant potential impact on the local or affected
population?
4.    What impact does the project have on human health?



MDDP                                  70                           Annex 10
Page 5 of 5
C)   MITIGATION MEASURES
1.    What mitigation measures are proposed and what alternative sites have been
considered?
2.    What lessons from previous similar projects have been incorporated into the
environmental assessment of this project?
3.    Have concerned populations and groups been involved and have their
interests and knowledge been adequately taken into consideration in project
preparation?
4.    Is resettlement involved and are appropriate compensatory measures
envisaged.
D)   RANKING
Based on the impact identification, can the project be ranked as:
(a)   Environmentally very positive
(b)   Positive
(c)   Environmentally very negative
(d)   Negative
(e)   Require redesign
(f)    Rejected



MDDP                                    71                                 Annex ll
Page I of 4
SYNOPSIS OF OPERATIONAL MANUAL
Introduction
1.    The purpose of the Operational Manual is to provide the necessary guidelines to the
municipalities, PCU, MDF and CMCs for executing the project smoothly and systematically. It
contains instructions pertaining to each of the noted below chapters pertaining to the project.
1.    General Ethical Principles Applicable to the PCU and the MDF
2.    MDF's (Municipal Development Fund) Role, Functions and Responsibilities
3.    PCU's (Project Coordination Unit), Role, Functions and Responsibilities
4.    CMC's (Contract Management Unit), Role, Functions and Responsibilities
5.    Municipalities and Sub-Projects Selection Methodology
6.    Procurement Guidelines and Procedures
7.    Project Implementation
8.    Accounting Procedures and Auditing
9.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
10.   Administrative Procedures
2.    The manual is organized in such a manner that it fully addresses all the aspects included in the
project. A brief description of each of the chapters is noted as below.
2.1    General Ethical Principles Applicable to the PCU and the MDF:
The policies concerning general code of ethical conduct and operating principles while performing the public
service are outlined in this section. The employees accordingly, are under an obligation to observe
confidentiality, impartiality and a strict discipline in exercising their assigned duties.
2.2    MIF's (Municipal Development Fund) Role, Functions and Responsibilities
The Municipal Development Fund will be established by the Presidential Decree as an
autonomous legal entity under the supervision of the MDF Board of Directors. The six member
Board of Directors will be chosen from the Government and National community. A Charter as
prepared by the Regional Policy and Management Service (RPMS) agency is to be attached to the
Decree, which would define the role of MDF. The main responsibilities of the MDF unit in working
with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and Contract Management Unit (CMC), include: assist
the municipalities preparing their Municipal Contract (MC); carry out the financial and economic
analysis of the municipal proposals and prepare the appraisal documents for presentation to the
MDF Board; maintain the sub-loan accounts.
Additionally, the MDF will work in close cooperation with the MoF in order to coordinate municipal
and regional finance policies, issue tax and levies management procedures, manage the intergovernmental
fiscal relationship, program central government transfers to municipalities, prepare budgeting guidelines and
directives, propose equalization policy, define municipal accounting standards, standardize payment
procedures, etc. Within this broad framework, the MDF provide resources, and supervise local government
investment activities.



MDDP                                    72                                 Annex 11
Page 2 of 4
2.3   PCU's (Project Coordination Unit), Role, Functions and Responsibilities
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), will be responsible for the implementation of MDDP's
institutional development component. PCU is to be established through a draft charter attached to the
Presidential Decree. The PCU will work with MDF to accomplish the project's development objectives. The
Operational Manual will elaborate the role, responsibilities, and structure of the Unit in accordance with the
guidelines provided in the PCU Charter. The PCU will function under the supervision of the Head of RPMS
and will be accountable to the President of Georgia and the Investment Council.
2.4    CMC's (Contract Management Consultant), Role, Functions and Responsibilities
The procurement of goods, works and consultant services, needed for the investment component of
the project will be contracted out by the MDF and PCU to the independent Contract Management Consultants
(CMC). Once a sub-project is approved by the MDF Board, it will be handed over to CMC. The CMC would
be selected through a competitive process on the basis of their experience with the Bank financed projects.
With the assistance of appropriate experts, CMC will be responsible for contract administration on behalf of
the MDF and the concerned municipalities. The work scope will include: (i) training of municipal, MDF, and
PCU staff and developing monitoring procedures for the municipalities to be used in managing procurement
and disbursement; (ii) detailing of procurement plan for the sub-projects; (iii) preparing technical
specifications of material and equipment required; (iv) preparing specific bid documents based on the Bank
SBDs; (v) preparing TORs for hiring consultant services, etc. The detailed terms of reference for CMC would
be provided in the Operational Manual.
2.5    Municipalities and Sub-Projects Selection Methodology
The selection of municipalities and sub-projects under the physical investment component
under MDDP, will be articulated around a Municipal Development Agreement, a binding
agreement between the central government and municipalities. To initiate, a Municipality will do
the following:
(a)  submit a request to the Department of Local Government's Project Coordination Unit,
expressing their interest in Project Approach;
(b)  complete an audit to determine the financial capacity of the municipality, and
identifying the administrative, financial and technical action-plan selected for the
Local Adjustment Plan; and
(c)  propose a Priority Investment Plan, with the selection of the municipal top-priorities
and its impact on the local budget.
To achieve the objectives of the project, for screening the noted below selection criteria was applied:
(ai)   demonstrated willingness to perform;
(b)    basic financial and administrative capacity; and
(c)    above average management capabilities;
The 10 regional representatives proposed a total of 23 municipalities to RPMS and the Bank for initial
consideration. Based on the criteria above 11 municipalities were selected to be benefited from the project.



MDDP                                    73                                 Annex I1
Page 3 of 4
The subsequent actions on the part of the selected municipalities, MDF, PCU and CMC would
include: (i) the municipal audit will be executed by local consultants; (ii) preparation of the financial and
administrative rehabilitation plan by the respective municipalities; (iii) preparation of priority investment plan
of the municipalities.
Thereafter, MDF will carry out: (a) review of the financial situation of the municipalities, (b)
highlight where the gaps are in terms of maintenance, services, and infrastructure, and (c) justify the
investments selected under the priority investment plan; and (d) the preparation of municipal contracts for 11
qualified municipalities. If any of the first 11 selected municipalities fails to qualify, would be replaced by
any of the 12 reserve municipalities. The standard Forms for: Municipal Audit; Financial and Rehabilitation
Plan; Priority Investment Project; Municipal Development Agreement; and Sub-Projects Screening
Methodology are provided in the Operational Manual for guidance.
2.6    Procurement Guidelines and Procedures
Procurement Guidelines and Procedures, provide necessary guidelines on the Bank's standard
procurement procedures as applied to the specific requirements of MDDP. Broadly, it contains the
procurement arrangements, for the two categories:
(i) a line of credit for $16.00 million to Georgian Municipalities through the MDF; and (ii) the Institutional
component for $4.5 million, covering the various studies and consulting services, including small equipment
items for PCU and MDF use. The procurement procedures to be followed by the MDF and CMC for the
priority investment component and by PCU for the institutional development component will be provided in
the Operational Manual.
2.7    Project Implementation
The project will be implemented through three main entities: PCU; MDF; and CMC. The Operational Manual
describes the functions and operational responsibilities of each of these entities in detail. Other municipalities
qualified for participating in the project; (ii) organization and management improvement, including
improvement of services to the public, development of simplified administrative procedures; (iii)
strengthening municipal planning and programming procedures; (iv) human resource planning, including the
development of a career and incentives structure within municipalities, the definition of training needs; and
(v) physical investment project implementation management.
2.8    Accounting Procedures and Auditing
The MDDP accounting system and the procedures are to be clearly defined in the
accounting section of the Operational Manual. The MDDP Accounting Department will be
responsible for maintaining an adequate control of the accounting information that will be
registered in the accounting system by the qualified staff members. The Department shall be
responsible for keeping all supporting documentation required by normal accounting practices for
payments made to finance the approved projects or administrative expenses. The audit will be
carried out in accordance International Standards on Auditing and will include such tests and
controls as the auditor considers necessary in the circumstances.



MDDP                                     74                                  Annex 1I
Page 4 of 4
Monthly Statements, are to prepared regularly and issued to the agreed Governmental and
donors, including to World Bank. Reporting obligations and auditing procedures and schedules are
defined in the manual.
2.9    Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
Project monitoring will be the responsibility of PCU, contracting out most of these functions, as
appropriate. PCU will furnish the Bank with reports on a regular basis including: (i) quarterly progress and
project financial management reports; (ii) interim unaudited statements of project accounts kept by PCU; and
(iii) additional information that the Bank may request from time to time. PCU's financial statements will also
be provided annually. The complete reporting requirements will be described in the Operational Manual.
Performance monitoring will be undertaken by the Bank. To ensure close monitoring of the
achievements of project objectives during implementation, a set of key performance indicators have been
developed.
As this is the first Bank-supported investment credit primarily in the rural sector, the project is expected to
require a significant supervision effort.
Reporting requirements regarding: selection of sub-projects; implementation status; awarding of
contracts for works, goods and services; disbursement status; technical assistance; and distribution names will
be spelled out in the Operation Manual.
2.10   Administrative Procedures
These procedures pertain to: (i) Personnel Hiring Procedures; (ii) Office Management
Policies; and (iii) Staff evaluation and Governing Procedures; for PCU and MDF will be described
in the Operational Manual.
The guidelines will be administered in accordance with the procedures stated in the
Operational Manual. The Executive Director is nominated and confirmed by the State Investment
Council. The PCU will function under the supervision of the Head of RPMS. The Head of PCU is
also nominated by the State Investment Council and would be responsible for hiring the needed
personnel on a competitive basis in accordance with the TOR for each position.
All employees are hired on a contractual basis on a one-year renewable term, with a three-
month probation period. Two months before the expiration of the contract, the Executive
Committee will evaluate the performance of each staff member, and on the basis of this appraisal,
decide whether the contract can be extended for another year.
All staff regulations are to be in compliance with the existing labor legislation of Georgia.



IBRD 28846
z  41-                            424                               435
GEORGIA
S,.                                                                                                                                                                                                    "-_l PNTDENT11 SE  NEF_CIARY UNICIP0FCES
UN  IDERUP
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RSINFEDERATION                                                                                                                                                        WL I RA E
o   SELECTED CMES
/                                                                                                                                 S/ 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTONOMOUS5 RE~4BUC CENTERS
>\,o     f           -}  ~  )         .                                                                                                                                                             *   NATIONAL CAFATAL
-   RA/ERS
FKN R    F ~   ;   x  \^S w \    f- \  s                                                                                                           t   G/ACIER AREAS
P/o~~~~~~~  I  ~~~~~~~-'-'~~~~~~~~\-I'4K.-f-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"~~~~                                                                                   94A/N ROADS~~~~~~~~~MA,IROD
;   I  ,;,;, ? -  b  T?    n   A                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECC NDARY ROADS
43 \\ Sd{ _ - S LM*hOLEE RAIUWOADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WROD
-34
-  -  DSTRICT BOUNDARIES
,   -    0 ___UTONOMOUS REPUBUC ROUNDARIES
I.-NTERNLATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Sea c k                                                                                                                                                                                                      FEDERATN
lUgWNE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9'4 ,'-
ARUSS/t Mop AN8  AZERBAUAN   S   4] CO;oTX 4w 8OIV8 WZ<                                                          s                                                           t YF                                USSI_
_1RTIN a                                                                                                                                                                                                         ERATN
/,,,h            (   ,,:rwnf uh
SSt11AT4ABREP,  IRAQ  k  IS/MC REP OF IRAN                                                                                                                                       45' .                                                        .NE.W
UKRAJNE  KAZAKSTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN 9









IMAGING
Report No.:         16746   GE
Type:     SAR



