Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
CREDIT NUMBER 2976 GE
Project Agreement
Municipal Development and Decentralization Project
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Dated September 15, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2976 GE 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 1997, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (MDF). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Georgia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,100,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that MDF agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
and  
WHEREAS MDF, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term “free-limit Municipal 
Financing” means a Municipal Financing, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit 
Municipal Financing pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement. 
Page  2
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of MDF
Section 2.01. MDF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A.2.II (c) and B of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs 
in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and 
experienced management and personnel, and in accordance with its Charter and Project 
Operations Manual. 
Section 2.02. (a) MDF undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, each Municipal Financing shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule  to this Agreement. 
(b)
MDF shall not amend or waive any condition of the Project Operations 
Manual without obtaining the Association’s prior approval to any such amendment or 
waiver.
(c)
MDF shall exercise its rights in relation to each Municipal Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of  
MDF; and (ii) achieve the purposes of the Project. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.II (c) and B of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.05. (a) MDF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit. 
(b)
MDF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by MDF of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) MDF shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of  MDF.
(b)
MDF shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each 
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited, and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and  
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial 
Page  3
statements as well as the audit thereof as the 
Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. Section 4.02. All the 
provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding 
any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For MDF:
5 Alvani str.
Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of MDF  may be 
taken or executed by its Executive Director, or by such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and MDF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  4
By /s/ Judy O’ Connor 
Acting Regional Vice-President
Europe and Central Asia
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Eligibility Criteria for 
Participating Municipalities 
1.
MDF shall provide Municipal Financing to Participating Municipalities which, on 
the basis of the monitoring carried out by the PCU in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, are current in their 
performance under their respective Municipal Development Agreement. 
2.
MDF shall select and employ, in conformity with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement, contract management consultants for each Municipal 
Investment Project for the purpose of assisting the Participating Municipalities in 
procurement matters and contract administration; the contracts for such services shall 
specify the obligations of the respective Participating Municipality in connection 
therewith and shall be countersigned by the respective Participating Municipality.
Procedures for and terms and conditions of Municipal Financing:
3. 
The terms of Municipal Financing shall conform with the provisions of the 
Project Operations Manual, and unless otherwise agreed by MDF and the Association, 
shall include the following principal terms:
(a)
Maximum amount of Municipal Financing: $500,000 equivalent.
(b)
Minimum financing to be made available by the Participating Municipality 
out of its own resources: 20% of total cost of Municipal Investment Project.
(c)
Currency:  the Municipal Financing shall be extended in Lari determined 
as of the date or respective dates of disbursement.
(d)
Repayment terms and Interest Rate: 50% of the principal amount of the 
Municipal Financing shall be repayable over a period not to exceed ten (10) years 
following a grace period not to exceed one year and an interest rate shall be payable 
on 50% of the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding at the rate of 20% for 
Municipal Investment Projects involving revenue earning assets and 15% for Municipal 
Investment Projects involving non-revenue earning assets; the other 50% of the 
principal amount of the Municipal Financing shall be made available as a grant.
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Municipal Investment 
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless: 
(a)
the Municipal Financing for such Municipal Investment Project shall have 
been approved by the Association and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Association shall have 
received the application and information required under paragraph 5 (a) of this 
Schedule in respect of such Municipal Financing;  
(b)
the Municipal Financing for such Municipal Investment Project shall have 
been a free-limit Municipal Financing for which the Association has authorized 
Page  5
withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Association shall have 
received the request and information required under paragraph 5 (b) of this Schedule 
in respect of such free-limit Municipal Financing. For the purposes of the Development 
Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Municipal Financing shall be a 
Municipal Financing for an Municipal Investment Project in an amount to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $300,000 
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the proceeds of which have been or are 
being used for financing of works, goods or services directly and materially related 
to such Municipal Investment Project; or 
(c)    notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, MDF 
shall submit the first three Municipal Investment Project for approval of the 
Association in conformity with the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule.
5.
(a)
When presenting a Municipal Financing (other than a free-limit Municipal 
Financing, with the exception set forth in paragraph 4 (c) above) to the Association 
for approval,  MDF shall furnish to the Association an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a report on the compliance of the 
Participating Municipality with its Municipal Development Agreement and an appraisal 
of the Municipal Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Municipal Financing or Investment, including the schedule of 
amortization of the Municipal Financing or of repayment of the amount of the Credit to 
be used for the Municipal Investment Project; and (iii) such other information as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by MDF for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Municipal Financing shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the status of compliance of Participating Municipality with its 
Municipal Development Agreement and the Municipal Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Municipal Financing, including the 
schedule of amortization therefor. 
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before December 31, 2000.
6.
Municipal Financing shall be made on terms whereby MDF shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Participating Municipality the  rights and obligations adequate to 
protect the interests of the Association and MDF,  including: 
(a)
require the Participating Municipality to carry out and operate the 
Municipal Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, and 
to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in conformity with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, and (ii) such goods, 
works  and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Municipal 
Investment Project; 
(c)
require the Participating Municipalities to employ, in conformity with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, contract management 
consultants responsible for acting as procurement contract administrator; 
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Municipal Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(e)
require that: (i) the Participating Municipality shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any 
Page  6
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Participating Municipality to replace or 
repair such goods; 
(f)
obtain all such information as the Association or MDF shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Participating Municipality and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Municipal Investment Project; 
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Municipality to the 
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Participating Municipality to 
perform its obligations under its contract with MDF; and
(h)
require that the Participating Municipality prepare and furnish to the 
Association and MDF a plan for the further operation of the Municipal Investment 
Project at the completion of the Municipal Investment Project. 
7.
Any financing made by the MDF out of its own resources, or MDF acting as a 
financial intermediary for other cofinanciers, shall be made available to 
municipalities on the same financial terms and conditions as set forth in Section 3 of 
this Schedule and the Project Operations Manual, unless otherwise approved by the 
Association.
