Report No. PID6994
Project Name                     Georgia-Municipal Development and (+)
Decentralization Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Infrastructure, Urban
Project ID                       GEPE50910
Borrower                         Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency
Municipal Projects Implementation and
Coordination Unit
I. Chavchavadze Avenue, 60
380008, Georgia, Tbilisi, Georgia
Tel: 995-32-250-468, 250-469
Fax: 995-32-250-467
E-mail: mpicc@caucasus.net
Municipal Development Fund
5 Alvani st.,
380003 Tbilisi, Georgia
Environment Category             B
Date this PID Prepared           October 14, 1998
Date Initial PID Prepared        October 14, 1998
Date of Appraisal                April 30-May 25, 1997
Board Date                       July 15, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Objectives
The project supports the initial stage of the decentralization process aimed
at shifting responsibility and accountability in terms of delivery and
maintenance of urban services to municipalities. The project's primary
objectives are:
assisting the decentralization process at the central and local government
level;
promoting an improvement of financial and administrative management as well as
municipal investment program;
supporting urgent local investments;
generating employment opportunities.
2.      Description
The project will include two main components as follows:
Component I: Institutional Development (US$5.7 million of which IDA credit
US$4.6 million)
The project will finance the institutional development of central, regional,
and local governments through municipal and national institution-building
activities. Within the Institutional Development component, two sub-components
will respectively focus on the following activities:
Institutional development, at the municipal level. This sub-component will



primarily support the implementation of a municipal development program
articulated around a Municipal Development Agreement (MDA), a binding
agreement between the central government and each participatory municipality.
It includes: (i) general municipal management improvement encompassing the
preparation of MDAs; (ii) organization and management improvement, including
improvement of services to the public, development of simplified
administrative procedures; (iii) strengthening municipal planning and
programming procedures; (iv) human resource planning, including the
development of a career and incentives structure within municipalities, the
definition of training needs; and (v) physical investment project
implementation management.
Institutional development, at the national level. This sub-component focuses
on strengthening the central government's capacity to implement effectively
the planned decentralization program. Various activities aimed at providing
an enabling environment for municipal development programs: (i) national
information systems of municipalities, necessary to manage the restructuring
of municipal service delivery; (ii) analysis of policy alternatives; (iii)
evaluation of the impact of regional and sector investments on municipal
finance; and, (iv) project coordinating unit..
Component II: Physical Investments (US$20.4 million of which IDA credit
US$16.3 million)
The project will finance investments in participating municipalities, based on
the Priority Investments Plan (PIP) prepared within the framework of the
Municipal Development Agreement. The investments include, but are not limited
to, construction rehabilitation and maintenance of public infrastructure
(primary and secondary) facilities, and services under the responsibilities of
local government, particularly:
roads, drainage, lighting, etc.;
water supply, sanitation, and solid waste management;
revenue generating facilities (markets, bus stations, etc.);
social facilities (health center, schools, etc.);
administrative/cultural facilities (rehabilitation of historic properties).
3.      Financing
Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$26.1 million
equivalent (excluding contributions sought from donors) of which US$20.9
million equivalent will be provided by IDA and US$5.2 million by the MoF and
municipalities as local counterpart funding. Of the total cost of US$26.1
million equivalent, US$5.7 has been allocated for national and municipal
institutional development while US$20.4 has been allocated for physical
investments.
4.      Implementation Arrangements
The MPICC will be responsible for implementation of the institutional
development component. The Municipal Development Fund will be responsible for
management and execution of the investment component. The Department of Local
Government-State Chancellery will take responsibility for the political
aspects of the decentralization process.
5.      Sustainability
Municipalities become eligible for proceeds of the credit by agreeing to make
specific changes to improve their administrative capacity, increase revenues
and more carefully prioritize expenditures. The process to put together
Municipal Development Agreements poses both technical and political
-2 -



challenges, which only dynamic municipalities can overcome. This increases
the likelihood that reforms would be sustainable.
6.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The principal lessons learned from over a decade of Bank experience in lending
for municipal development, worldwide, include the importance of: (a) strong
and consistent central government support for the principles of financially
sound municipal development; (b) intensive project supervision; (c) project
design that is simple and that, at the sub-project level, reflects the needs
and desires of municipalities participating in the project; (d) reasonable
eligibility criteria for participation; (e) need for central government
assistance in the identification and preparation of municipal sub-projects;
and (f) simple and efficient procedures for sub-project review and approval.
Bank's brief experience in Georgia has shown similarly that four key factors
can help facilitate project implementation: (i) simplicity of project design;
(ii) active Government participation in project preparation; (iii) support in
project management for agencies inexperienced in implementing Bank projects;
and, (iv) intensive supervision efforts by the Bank. All these have been
taken into consideration in planning this project.
7.      Poverty Category:   PTI:b
The project does not specifically target the poor, but the general level of
incomes is low. Improved urban infrastructure and services should benefit the
poor, who tend to suffer disproportionately when basic services break down.
Since investments are expected to be labor intensive, the impact on the labor
market, particularly on the unskilled labor force, is expected to be very
positive.
8.      Environmental Aspects
Physical components of this project will only be identified in the course of
implementation. However, in order to ensure that they would not adversely
affect the urban environment, an environmental impact assessment checklist was
developed and is used for screening each sub-project and development.
9.      Program Objective Categories
Economic Management (EA)
Poverty Reduction (PA)
10.     Project Benefits
The project will support the decentralization process and promote a more
active role for municipalities. Specifically, it will:
stimulate the capacity of local government to efficiently program, finance,
manage and maintain facilities and services;
facilitate improved municipal financial performance and contribute to national
development objectives by reducing the public sector deficit; and
have a favorable impact - economically and socially - on the urban population
through: (i) reduced costs and better access to municipal services; and (ii)
employment generation.
11.     Project Risks
The major risks are:
inability of the Government to enact the required legal and fiscal reforms or
effectively manage the decentralization program;
unfavorable macro-economic conditions during program execution; and
failure of municipalities to implement the municipal development programs or
-3 -



to reimburse their share of the credit.
12.     Contact Point:            The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Slobodan Mitric
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2951
Fax:     (202) 522-3641
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 30, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



