Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2976 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Municipal Development and Decentralization Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 15, 1997  
CREDIT NUMBER 2976 GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 1997, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) the Bank has received a letter dated May 22, 1997 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform the 
municipal sector of the Borrower (herein called the Program) declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(C) Parts A.2.II (c) and B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s 
Municipal Development Fund (MDF) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the MDF part of  the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the MDF.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the 
right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit 
for a continuous period of 
thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any  time, the Association determines, with respect to any 
contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
the execution 
of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for  financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) 
at any time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of  the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Charter” means the charter of the MDF as attached to the Presidential 
Decree No. 294, dated June 7, 1997; 
(b)
"MDF" means the Municipal Development Fund established pursuant to 
Presidential Decree No. 294,  dated June 7, 1997; 
(c) 
“Municipal Development Agreement” means an agreement entered into by a 
Participating Municipality and PCU (both as hereinafter defined) in accordance with 
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(d) 
“Municipal Financing” means a financing made or proposed to be made by 
MDF to a Participating Municipality for a Municipal Investment Project (as hereinafter 
defined) out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit;  
(e)
“Municipal Investment Project” means a specific development project to be 
carried out by a Participating Municipality utilizing the proceeds of a Municipal 
Page  3
Financing;
(f)
"Participating Municipalities" means the municipalities which have been 
selected for participation in Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III (a) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and 
which may, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined), from time to time participate in  Part B 
of the Project; 
(g)
“Project Account A” and “Project Account B” mean the accounts to be 
opened by the Borrower for the purpose of making its contribution to the Project 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; Project Account A to 
be opened and maintained for the purposes of the MDF-executed parts of the Project and 
Project Account B to be opened and maintained for the purposes of the PCU (as 
hereinafter defined) executed parts of the Project; 
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and MDF, 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established pursuant to 
Presidential Decree No. 294, dated June 7, 1997; 
(j)
"Project Operations Manual” means the manual adopted by the PCU and the 
MDF pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
April 23, 1997, and May 1, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(l)
"Special Account A" and “Special Account B”, both collectively referred 
to as the Special Accounts,  mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; Special Account A to be opened and maintained for the purposes of the 
MDF-executed parts of the Project and Special Account B to be opened and maintained 
for the purposes of the PCU (as hereinafter defined) executed parts of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 15,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i)
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
amounts to be paid) by MDF on account of withdrawals 
made 
by a Participating Municipality under a Municipal 
Financing to meet 
the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the 
Municipal Investment Project 
in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account is requested; and 
(ii)
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods 
and services required for Part A of the Project 
and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2007 and ending March 15, 
2032. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2017 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  5
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:  
(a)
carry out Parts A.1, A.2.I and A.2.II (a) and (b) of the Project through 
PCU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices and in conformity with the provisions of the 
Project Operations Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the Project;  
(b) 
shall cause MDF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of MDF therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable MDF to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.  
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out Parts 
A.1, A.2.I and A.2.II (a) and (b) in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02 Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall make available as a grant to MDF 
for the purposes of carrying out Part A.2.II (c) Project and for the purpose of making 
available Municipal Financing to Participating Municipalities under Part B of the 
Project the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1), 2 
(b), 3 (b) and 4 (b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Parts A.1, A.2.I and A.2.II (a) and (b) of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each 
Page  6
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied 
upon to support related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
MDF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that MDF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c)
Presidential Decree No. 294 of the Borrower or the Charter shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of MDF to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of MDF or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
Page  7
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), and (d) and of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of Association within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has opened two accounts  (the Project Account A and Project 
Account B) in a commercial bank or commercial banks, acceptable to the Association, 
and deposited an amount equivalent to $200,000 into the Project Account A and an 
amount equivalent to $50,000 into the Project Account B; 
(b) 
the PCU has completed at least three (3) municipal audits under Part 
A.1.I (a) of the Project, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;  
(c)
the Project Operations Manual shall have been adopted by appropriate 
action on behalf of the PCU and the MDF; and 
(d)
PCU and MDF have established and made operational their respective 
management and information systems.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by MDF, and is legally binding upon MDF in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70 E. Abashidze St.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212348 MOFIN SV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Municipal Investment   11,700,000
80% of amounts 
disbursed
Project under Part
B of the Project
(2)
(a) Equipment for
      140,000
100% of foreign
Participating
expenditures, 100%
Municipalities
of local expendi-
under Part A.1.II
tures (ex-factory
of the Project
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
(b) Equipment and
30,000
for other items
vehicles for the
procured locally
PCU under Part A.2.II
(a) of the Project;
and
(c) Equipment and
30,000
vehicles for MDF
under Part A.2 (c)
of the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
and training:
(a) under Parts A.1.I   1,500,000
100%
and A.1.II (a) and
(b) of the Project
(b) under Part A.2.II     300,000
100%
(c) of the Project
Page  9
(4)
Incremental
Operating Costs of
(a) PCU
      700,000
100%
(b) MDF
      400,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of
      300,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
TOTAL
         15,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by PCU and MDF, respectively, on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including cost of rent of premises and minor refurbishment 
thereof, office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower 's civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent; (ii) for services provided by consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (iii) for services provided by individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent; and (iv) incremental operating cost.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the decentralization process at 
the central and local government level, to promote an improvement of financial and 
administrative management and investment program of Participating Municipalities, to 
support urgent investments in Participating Municipalities and to generate employment 
opportunities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development 
1.
Municipal Institutional Development in about 12 Municipalities
I.
Provision of technical assistance
(a)
to assist in the carrying out of assessments of the current managerial, 
financial and technical performance of Participating Municipalities (municipal 
audits), the preparation of municipal financial and administrative development plans 
and priority municipal investment plans;
(b)
to assist Participating Municipalities to improve their organization and 
management, including improvement of services to the public, development of simplified 
administrative procedures, strengthening of their municipal planning and programming 
procedures, including preparation of pre-investment studies, and to assist in sector 
Page  10
specific planning and investment project implementation management;
(c)
to assist Participating Municipalities in improving the financial 
planning and financial record keeping, to assist in the design and implementation of 
land registry systems and to improve the revenue collection, expense control and to 
develop cost recovery systems; and
(d)
to establish management-oriented information systems and sector specific 
information systems.
II.
Provision of computer equipment and software needed for selected 
activities under 
Parts (a) though (d) above. 
2.
National Institutional Development for Municipalities
I.
Provision of technical assistance and training
(a)
for the establishment of a national information system for 
municipalities, including the design and implementation, on a pilot basis, of an  
information system of municipal performance indicators and the establishment of a 
methodology for the evaluation of the effectiveness of Project activities in the 
selected Participating Municipalities;
(b)
for the analysis of municipal policy alternatives for the improvement of 
inter-governmental fiscal relationship, the reform of the social housing strategy and 
the analyses of urban land development policy;
(c)
for the analysis of policy alternatives to improve the performance of 
municipal organizational units and municipal employees; 
(d)
the preparation of a manual for use at the municipal level on multi-year 
financial planning;
(e)
evaluation of sector investments under Part B of the Project on municipal 
finance.
II. 
(a)
Provision of technical assistance and equipment, including 
vehicles, to strengthen the PCU’s implementation and evaluation capacity and the 
establishment of financial management and information systems.
(b)
Provision of training and seminars for staff of Participating 
Municipalities in best management and operational practices and to disseminate Project 
results to other municipalities and other appropriate organizations.
(c)
Provision of technical assistance, vehicles and equipment to strengthen 
MDF’s implementation capacity. 
Part B:
Municipal Investments
The provision of financing (Municipal Financing) to selected municipalities 
(Participating Municipalities) for specific development projects (Municipal Investment 
Projects) through the MDF.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Page  11
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Prequalification 
Bidders for supply and installation contracts shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(D)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Contractors for supply and installation estimated to cost $300,000 or 
more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Spare parts and items which are of a proprietary nature may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Page  12
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more and, without limitation, the first contract for works 
to be awarded following national competitive bidding procedures on the basis of the 
recommendation of any contract management consultant employed by MDF in conformity 
with the provisions of paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement for the 
purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be awarded following international 
shopping procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and, without 
limitation, the first two contracts for goods to be awarded following international 
shopping procedures on the basis of the recommendation of any contract management 
consultant employed by MDF in conformity with the provisions of paragraph 2 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement for the purposes of carrying out Part B of the 
Project or direct contracting procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations 
received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Page  13
1.
Quality-based Selection 
Services under Part A of the Project and for contract management under Part B of 
the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection 
Services for under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants 
Services for  tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of 
the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and with respect to each contract 
with contract management consultants to be employed for the purposes of Part B of the 
Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)), and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)), 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement.
Section I:
Project Coordination Unit, Borrower Contribution and Project Operations 
Manual 
Page  14
1.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PCU with terms 
of reference and powers adequate to enable it to carry out Parts A.1 and A.2.I. (a) 
through (e) under suitably qualified management assisted by staff in adequate numbers. 
2.
The Borrower shall deposit, semiannually,  into (i)  Project Account A  amounts 
sufficient to replenish the balance of Project Account A to the equivalent of 
$200,000; and (ii) Project Account B amounts sufficient to replenish the balance of 
Project Account B to the equivalent of $50,000. 
3.
The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the conditions of the Project 
Operations Manual without obtaining the Association’s prior approval to any such 
amendment or waiver.
Section II:
Project Monitoring and Performance Indicators
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 15, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
Section III:
Selection of Participating Municipalities and Municipal 
Development Agreements
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
select the municipalities for participation in Parts A.1 and A.2.I (a) 
through (e) of the Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures 
set forth in the Project Operations Manual; 
(b)
enter through PCU into Municipal Development Agreements with 
Participating Municipalities under terms and conditions which shall be in conformity 
with the requirements specified in the Project Operations Manual and which shall 
include a financial and administration plan and a priority investment plan for the 
respective Participating Municipality and shall furnish the Association copies of such 
Municipal Development Agreements; 
(c)
prior to entering into the first three Municipal Development Agreements, 
provide to the Association a copy of the final draft of the Municipal Development 
Agreement and shall take the comments of the association into due consideration prior 
to signing of each such Agreement;
(d)
cause the Participating Municipalities to perform the obligations and 
activities set forth in the respective Municipal Development Agreement; and
(e)
each year during the implementation of the Project, carry out a review of 
the Participating Municipalities’ progress in meeting the obligations, carrying out of 
the activities and achievement of objectives set forth in their respective Municipal 
Development Agreement and furnish the Association a report on such review.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (c), (3) (b) and 
(4) (b) in the case of Special Account A and Categories (2) (a), (2) (b), (3) (a) and 
(4) (a) in the case of Special Account B set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement set forth in said table;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 
in respect of the Special Account A  and an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect 
of the Special Account B to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect of Special Account A 
and an amount equivalent to $400,000 in respect of the Special Account B  until: (i) 
in respect of the Special Account A  the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account allocated to Categories (1), (2) (c), (3) (b) and (4) (b) plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.1 and A.2.I and A.2.II 
(a) and (b) of the Project  shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
1,500,000; and (ii) in respect of the Special Account the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories (2) (a), (2) (b), (3) (a) 
and (4) (a) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.2.II 
(c) and B of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of  Special Account A and Special Account B shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at 
such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents 
and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the 
Page  16
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
respective eligible Categories for the respective Special Account  minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  17
