                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo.:44310




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                       GEORGIA

      MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATIONPROJECT(CR 2658)

   MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENTAND DECENTRALIZATIONPROJECT(CR 2976)

         SECONDMUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENTAND DECENTRALIZATION
                                  PROJECT(CR3701)




                                     June 23,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit =Lari* (GEL)

   1994                 US$1   .oo                                                       2001                US$l.oo            2.07 GEL
   1995                 US$1   .oo                                                       2002                US$l.oo            2.20 GEL
   1996                 US$1.oo                    1.26 GEL                              2003                US$l.oo            2.15 GEL
   1997                 US$l   .oo                 1.30 GEL                              2004                US$l.oo            1.92 GEL
   1998                 US$l   .oo                 1.39GEL                               2005                US$l.oo            1.81 GEL
   1999                 US$l.oo                    2.02 GEL                              2006                US$l.oo            1.78 GEL
   2000                 US$l.OO                    1.98 GEL                              2007                US$1.oo          **1.66 GEL

* The Georgian Lariwas introducedas anew currencyinDecember 1995 with anexchangerate c  23 Lari = one USdollar. ** midyear VL e

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

ADB            AsianDevelopmentBank                                   MDA             MunicipalDevelopmentAgreement
APL            Adaptable ProgramLoan                                  MDF-G           MunicipalDevelopmentFundof Georgia
CAE            CountryAssistanceEvaluation                            MDDP-I          FirstMunicipalDevelopmentandDecentralization
                                                                                      Project(Cr.2976)
CAS            CountryAssistanceStrategy                              MDDP-I1         SecondMunicipalDevelopmentand
                                                                                      DecentralizationProject(Cr.3701)
CPS            CountryPartnershipStrategy                             MIRP            MunicipalInfrastructureRehabilitationProject
                                                                                      ((3.2658)
DCA            Development CreditAgreement                            MOF             MinistryofFinance
EBRD           EuropeanBankfor Reconstructionand                      PAD             ProjectAppraisalDocument
               Development
ERL.           EmergencyRecoveryLoan                                  PDA             ProjectDevelopmentAgreement
ERR            Economic Rateof Return                                 PIU             ProjectImplementationUnit
KfW            KreditanstaltfUr Wiederaufbau                          PPAR            ProjectPerformanceAssessmentReport
GNI            GrossNationalIncome(Atlas method)                      PPF             ProjectPreparationFacility
GOG            Governmentof Georgia                                   SAR             StaffAppraisalReport
GSIF           GeorgiaSocial InvestmentFund                           S I L           Specific InvestmentLoan
ICR            ImplementationCompletionReport                         TA              TechnicalAssistance
ID             InstitutionalDevelopment                               USAID           UnitedStates Agency for International
                                                                                      Development
IEG            IndependentEvaluationGroup
IEGWB          IndependentEvaluationGroup (World
               Bank)
LGU            Local GovernmentUnit
MCGF           MillenniumChallengeGeorgiaFund



Fiscal Year

Government:                          January 1- December 31




Director-General,IndependentEvaluation                                               : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup(WorldBank)                                      : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision                                                   : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                                                         : Mr.RovGilbert

                                                             i



      IEGWBMission: Enhanclngdevelopment effectivenessthrough excellence and independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
      The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first, to
ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe expectedresults,
and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from
experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percentof the Bank's lendingoperationsthrough field
work. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are innovative,large, or complex;those that
are relevant to upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave
requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate important lessons.
      To preparea ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examineprojectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff,visit the borrowingcountryto discuss the operation with the government, and other
in-countrystakeholders,and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand in localofficesas
appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internalIEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Oncecleared
internally,the PPAR is commented on by the responsibleBank department.IEGWBincorporatesthe comments as
relevant.The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers' comments are attachedto the
documentthat is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment reporthas been sent to the Board,
it is disclosedto the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWBs use of multipleevaluation methodsoffers both rigor and a necessarylevelof flexibilityto adapt to lending
instrument,projectdesign, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basicmethod to arrive at their
project ratings. Followingis the definition and ratingscale used for each evaluationcriterion(additionalinformationis
availableon the IEGWBwebsite: httD://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectives were achieved,or are expectedto be
achieved,efficiently.The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy,and efficiency. Relevanceincludesrelevance
of objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's objectivesare
consistentwith the country's current development prioritiesand with currentBank country and sectoralassistance
strategiesand corporategoals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country AssistanceStrategies,Sector
Strategy Papers, OperationalPolicies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which the project's design is consistentwith
the stated objectives. Efkacy is the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved,taking into accounttheir relativeimportance. Efficiencyis the extent to which the project achieved, or is
expectedto achieve, a returnhigher than the opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat least cost compared to
alternatives.The efficiencydimension generally is notapplied to adjustmentoperations. Possibleratingsfor Outcome:
HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes)will not be maintained (or realized). Possibleratings for Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: HighSignificant,
Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation
and supportedeffective implementation through appropriatesupervision(includingensuring adequate transition
arrangementsfor regular operation of supportedactivitiesafter loankreditclosing, toward the achievement of
developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: qualityat entry and qualityof supervision. Possibleratings for
Bank Performance: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.
       BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe government and implementingagency or
agencies)ensured qualityof preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements,toward the
achievementof development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government performance and implementing
agency(ies)performance. Possible ratings forBorrowerPerformance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory,Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                             ...
                                                                             111



Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS                   ....................................................................................................................         V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                         .........................................................................................................       VI


PREFACE        ......................................................................................................................................         vi1


SUMMARY         ......................................................................................................................................         IX


1 .         BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT                                   ......................................................................................      1


2 .         OBJECTIVESAND DESIGN                           ..............................................................................................       3


3 .         IMPLEMENTATIONAND COSTS                                  .....................................................................................      6


4 .         MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                   ...................................................................................      9


5 .         PROJECT OUTCOMES BY OBJECTIVE                                        ........................................................................     10

                MlRP ........................................................................................................................................
                MDDP-I .................................................................................................................................... 11 I O

                MDDP-II...................................................................................................................................     13


6 .         RATINGS        ..........................................................................................................................         14
                Outcome...................................................................................................................................
                Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.................................................................................................                    14
                                                                                                                                                               16
                Bank Performance....................................................................................................................
                Borrower Performance.............................................................................................................              16
                                                                                                                                                               17


7 .         BROADER ISSUES ARISING FROMTHIS EVALUATION                                                           ............................................ 18

                RemainingEngagedfor the Long Haul....................................................................................
                MunicipalReform RequiresGood Information.........................................................................                             18
                                                                                                                                                              19


8 .         FINDINGSAND LESSONS                          ..............................................................................................       19


BIBLIOGRAPHY             ...........................................................................................................................          21


ANNEX A       .BASIC       DATA SHEETS                  ...............................................................................................       23


ANNEX B       .LIST     OF PERSONS MET                     ............................................................................................       31

T h i s reportwas preparedby Roy Gilbert. who assessed the projects in September 2007. Romayne Pereiraprovided
administrative support.                                                                                                                                           I


                                                         V



PrincipalRatings

GEORGIA:MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATION (CR 2658)
                                                     ICR*               ICR Review*             PPAR
Outcome                                          Satisfactory            Satisfactory         Moderately
                                                                                              Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**                  Modest                Modest
Risk to Development Outcome                                                                       Low

Sustainabilify***                                   Likely                 Likely
Bank Performance                                Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory          Moderately
                                                                                              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                            Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory          Moderately
                                                                                              Unsatisfactory



GEORGIA:FIRSTMUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTAND DECENTRALIZATION(CR2976)
                                                     ICR*               ICR Review               PPAR
Outcome                                           Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Moderately
                                                                                              Satisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**                  Modest                Modest
Risk to Development Outcome                                                                       Low
Sustainabilify***                                    Likely                Likely
Bank Performance                                  Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Moderately
                                                                                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                              Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Moderately
                                                                                              Satisfactorv



GEORGIA:SECONDMUNICIPAL,DEVELOPMENTANDDECENTRALIZATION(CR3701)
                                                     ICR*               ICR Review               PPAR

Outcome                                           Satisfactory           Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                           Low                    Low                  Low
Bank Performance                                  Satisfactory           Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                              Satisfactory           Satisfactory         Satisfactory


* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department.The ICR
Review is an intermediateIEGWB productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact is assessedas part of the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.As the scales are
different, the ratingsare not directly comparable.

                                     vi


Key Staff Responsible
MIRP
GEORGIA:MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATION (Cr. 2658)
Project        Task ManagerILeader      Division Chief/     Country Director
                                        Sector Director
Appraisal         Robert Maurer        Thomas Blinkhorn       Basil Kavalsky
Completion        Ellen Hamilton       MargretThalwitz        Judy O'Connor




MDDP-I
GEORGIA: FIRSTMUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTAND DECENTRALIZATION(Cr.2976)               .-
Project        TaskManagerILeader       Division Chief/     Country Director
                                        Sector Director
Appraisal         Robert Maurer        Thomas Blinkhorn       Basil Kavalsky
Completion        Ahmed Eiweida        Sumter Lee Travers   D-M Dowsett-Coirolo




MDDP-II
GEORGIA:SECONDMUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTAND DECENTRALIZATION                     --
Project        Task ManagedLeader       Division Chief/     Country Director
                                        Sector Director
Appraisal     Jean-JacquesSoulacroup   Sumter Lee Travers     Judy 0' Connor
Completion        Ahmed Eiweida          Wael Zakout        D-M Dowsett-Coirolo

                                             vii


Preface

This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on three projects: (i)   the
Georgia: MunicipalInfrastructureRehabilitationProject MIRP (Cr.2658), for
                                                                 -
which the World Bank approved a credit inan amount o f US$17.7 million onNovember
8, 1994. The credit was closed on June 6,2000, two and a half years later thanplanned,
whenUS$0.3 million equivalent was cancelled; (ii) Georgia:FirstMunicipal
                                                      the
DevelopmentandDecentralizationProject           -MDDP-I     (Cr.2976) for which the World
Bank approved a credit inan amount o f US$20.9 million equivalent on July 15, 1997.
The credit was closed on December 31,2002, one year later thanplanned, when it was
fully disbursed; (iii) Georgia:SecondMunicipalDevelopmentand
                     the
DecentralizationProject-MDDP-I1(Cr.3701) for which the World Bankapproved a
credit inan amount o f US$l9.4 million equivalent on August 1, 2002. The credit was
closed on December 30, 2007, eighteen months later thanplanned, when it was fully
disbursed.

These projects were selected for assessment since together they offer a unique
perspective uponthe performance o f Bank assistance to Georgia's municipal
development over a fourteen year period that covers most o f Georgia's recent history as
an independentstate. Moreover, the evaluation findings o fthe individualprojects will
feed into IEG's ongoing Special Study o f Municipal Management.

The report i s based on a review o fproject documents, including Implementation
Completion Reports, Staff Appraisal Reports, Memorandato the President, legal
documents and project files, and on discussions held with Bank staff involved inthe
projects. An IEGmissionvisited Georgia in September 2007 to review project results and
metwith national and local officials, project staff andfinal beneficiaries inthe
municipalities o f Tbilisi, Kutaisi, Batumi, Poti, Telavi and Ambrolauri. IEGselected
these six municipalities for two reasons. They were major project players, together
hosting 73 percent o fthe investments o f all three projects reviewed here. They
represented different levels of performance, accordingto the ICRs. On field visits to them
the IEGmission examinedproject results at the local level. IEG gratefully acknowledges
the courtesies and attention freely given by these interlocutors inGeorgia.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments but no comments were received.


                                             i x


Summary

Georgia currently has 2.3 millionpeople livingincities, down from 3.0 million at
independence in 1991. Local self governing bodies o f some 69 larger municipalities
oversee the local government o fthese people. Today Georgia i s a lower-middle income
country andits transition to democracy and market economy has, at times, been
traumatic. Civilwars, regional separatism, economic blockades, corruption and political
"revolution" all played their part. The sequence o f the three municipal development
projects reviewed here, MIRP (Municipal InfrastructureRehabilitation Project 1994-
2000)' MDDP-I(FirstMunicipal DevelopmentandDecentralization Project 1997-2002)
andMDDP-I1(Second Municipal Development andDecentralization Project 2002-
2007), covers such events andalmost the entire period o f Georgia as an independent
state.

The objectives o fMIRP--to preserve andimprove existingurbanservices and
infrastructure that hadbecome dilapidatedthrough neglect -- were modestly relevant.
MDDP-1's shift offocus toward improvingextremelyweak municipalmanagement was
substantially relevant. Since MDDP-I1sharpened this focus even more, its objectives are
also rated as substantially relevant.

MIRP's design for achieving its objectives isratedas modestly relevant; itneededdata
on municipal finance andthe environment didnot exist inGeorgia at the time. The design
o f MDDP-Ii s also rated modestly relevant. The physical components were the right
ones, but involving two separate Project ImplementationUnits (PIUS), one for physical
investmentandthe other for institutional development was a design flaw. MDDP-11's
designis ratedsubstantially relevant with similar physical components as the earlier
projects, and a sharper focus upon cost recovery and creditworthiness.

Implementationexperience improvedwith each successive operation. When Georgia's
transition was at its most volatile, MIRPexperienced delays, but bulk o fthe planned
investments-in    roads, water, sewerage andheating-went      ahead as planned. MDDP-I
was off to a better start, but implementation became hostage to clarifying sub-project
financing terms andconditions that hadnot been settled duringsomewhat hasty
preparation. MDDP-11's was nearly completed on time, inspite o f Georgia's "Rose
Revolution" just nine months into this project. Institutionalsupport started piecemeal,
later extendinginto broader efforts, the results o fwhich have yet to be garnered.

Project Monitoring andEvaluation (M&E) was andremains weak. Under MIRP,M&E
was negligible overall, for including performance indicators that, while conceptually
sound, could not be used for lack of data. MDDP-1's M&E i s also rated negligible. This
time the design was too heavily focused uponproject implementation-and       that was only
halfutilized. The M&E under MDDP-I1improved somewhat, being ratedmodest overall.
Its designwas sharply focused uponjust three municipal finance performance indicators.

MIRPOutcomes: The project contributedlittleto laying a foundation for municipal
reform, since neither GOGnor the municipalities were ready or able to implement the
autonomous and accountable financing arrangements that the project reforms had in

                                             X



mind.Theproject succeededinpreservingessential infrastructureand services-roads,
water and sewerage-that     hadbeen neglected for years. But many service levels remain
very poor. Environmentalresults were good, but on a very small scale only.

MDDP-IOutcomes: Involving eleven o fGeorgia's largest municipalities ina single
program itself drew attentionto the idea o f decentralization. Actual progress in
implementing it, however, was small, understandably so given centralism's tradition, the
breakawayregions andthe weak capacities o fmunicipalities generally. Better municipal
management was only modestly achieved. Local financial andmanagement information
systems remain inadequate. The strongest achievement was insupporting urgent
municipal investments, mostly good quality works inroadpaving and water supply.

MDDP-I1Outcomes: Undertheproject, nine municipalitiesbecame creditworthy and
able to finance priority investments through the line o f credit offered. Evidence i s
beginning to appear that the financial performance o f municipalities that participatedin
the project is stronger than inothers.

MIRPRatings: Overall outcome isModerately unsatisfactory sincethere were
significant shortcomings inmeeting its modestly relevant objectives. Itperformed best in
preserving essential infrastructureand services, while achieving little inlaying the
foundation for municipal reforms andmunicipal credibility. Lack o f economic rate o f
return (ERR) or other estimates for the sub-project investments at completion precludes
evaluating efficiency. The risk to development outcome i s Low as municipalities are now
willing and able to maintainthe infrastructureprovided and relevantnational institutions
are more solid. Bank performance is Moderately unsatisfactory, both for quality and
entry and quality o f supervision. Preparation proved difficult when consultants were
unwillingto work inGeorgia at the time. Supervisionbecame ineffective as far as
financial oversight was concerned. Borrower performance is Moderutel' unsatisfactory
(for both government and implementing agency performance), given the project's weak
financial management, even though early weaknesses inmanaging Bank standard
procurement were overcome with experience.

MDDP-IRatings:Overalloutcome o fthe substantially relevantproject objectives is
Moderately satisfactory. Strongest results came from supporting urgentmunicipal
investments. There were some very modest decentralization achievements through
involving municipalities, and some minor gains instrengthening municipal management.
Again the lack o f ERR estimates or measures o f cost effectiveness means that project
efficiency cannot be evaluated at completion. The risk to development outcome i s Low
especially as the Municipal Development Fundo f Georgia (MDF-G)evolved from being
a temporary PlUinto one o f GOG's principal public sector financial intermediaries. Bank
performance is Moderately satisfactory, both for quality at entry and supervision.
Borrower performance i s Moderately satisfactory (satisfactory for government
performance and moderately satisfactory for implementing agency performance.

MDDP-I1Ratings:Overalloutcome isSatisfactory. It achievedits substantially relevant
objectives through helping to make municipalities more effective deliverers o f urban
services byplacing them within a cost recovery/creditworthiness framework. The risk to
development outcome i s Low thanks to the consolidation o fMDF-Gandthe likelihood o f

                                             x i


continuing municipal creditworthiness. Bank performance is Satisfactory, being
moderately satisfactory for quality at entry and highly satisfactory for quality o f
supervision. Supervisionwas especially thorough, yet flexible, as Georgia went through
its Rose Revolution. Borrower performance i s Satisfactory (for both government and
implementing agency) as municipal reform began to make some progress and MDF-G
demonstrated its effectiveness as implementing agency for a wide range o fprojects in
different sectors inGeorgia, well beyondjust its original municipal development brief.

Two broader issues arise from this evaluation. First how a succession o f lending
operations was able to bringbenefits, even ifmodest at times, incountries undergoing
prolonged and sometimes traumatic economic andpolitical transition. Secondly,
municipal reformrequires good information about municipal finances and management
capacity, both lackinginGeorgia, a country that couldbenefitfrom applying a simplified
form o f Chile's National System o f Municipal Information (SWIM), for instance.

The experience o fthese projects reinforces the following IEGlessons:

       Inprovidingassistancefor the reformofanysector-municipal           inthis case-
       Bank and Borrower need to ensure that information systems are adequate for
       implementing the reforms and for monitoring progress. Inthe case o f these three
       projects, information on municipal finances andon the economic performance o f
       sub-project investments was sparse. Georgia's situation inthis regard could be
       improvedby the greater use o f municipal experiences o f other countries.
       Political volatility provides unusual challenges andopportunities for Bank
       supervision. It calls for more thorough documentationthannormal, detailing all
       actions agreed between Bank and Borrower. It also requires greater oversight o f
       project financial management. Inthe case o f Georgia, it didprovide opportunities
       for the Bank to act as valued and stable interlocutor intimes o f change.
       Major political and economic transition, while offering opportunities for reform,
       may slow downprogress with municipal reform inparticular, as national
       governments work to establish the effectiveness o ftheir central control.
       When municipal management i s very weak overall, it makes sense to work first
       with stronger and creditworthy municipalities that are most likely to succeed. In
       Georgia, the national government could recognize and foster these municipalities
       as models o f good practice and sources for inspiration and technical assistance for
       others to learn from.
       Time gained through speedy project preparationcan be lost ifimplementation has
       to be extended inorder to resolve matters overlooked by the hasty start-up.
       Speedy preparationitselfmay also be o f little benefit when the Bank is involved
       for the longhaul, as it has beeninGeorgia, where project achievements have been
       made steadily but slowly.


                                                              Vinod Thomas
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Evaluation


                                               1


1.       Backgroundand Context

1.1     Georgia, a small country inthe Caucasus region, currently has 2.3 millionpeople
livingincities, down 18percent from the 3.0 million at the time o findependence from
the Soviet Unionin 1991,Local government o f the urbanpopulation is largely inthe
handso f some 69 municipalities, most o fwhichhave elected self-governinglocal gov-
ernment units (LGUs) called "Sakrebulos" inGeorgianor "Local Self-Governments" in
English. Bank assistanceto municipal development was targeted at this level. But local
government i s even more fragmented, nominally including more than one thousand local
authorities, mostly inrural areas.

1.2     From a very weak base, urbanmunicipalities inGeorgia have consolidated their
responsibilities and finctions only very slowly. Duringthe Soviet period until 1991, city
government was generally the agent o fthe centralized state who also appointed top
"local" officials. A 1997 Organic Law on Local Self-Government, supported by the
Bank,was the first attempt to clarify the political, legal andfinancial status of
municipalities inGeorgia. Itrecognized 1,033 units o f local government at two levels, the
vast majority being lower level villages, while the higher level comprisedregions and
larger towns. Eventhe latter received little financial autonomy under a law that still left
the President o f Georgia with the power to appoint the mayors o f the capital Tbilisi and
other major cities. Nevertheless, it ledto the creation o f GOG's Municipal Development
Fundo f Georgia(MDF-G), also in 1997, to finance investments inurbaninfrastructure
and services (Box 2). MDF-Glater became a key development agency for Georgia and
important partner for the Bank.Municipal elections for smaller cities were first heldin
1998, and their scope was extended to larger cities by a 2001 amendment to the Organic
Law. A second revision in2005 gave less recognition to village-level municipalities,
thereby reducingthe number o f effective local government entities from 1,033 tojust 69,
mostly regions, cities and towns, the potentially more effective municipalities. But
municipal financial autonomy was slow to develop. Itwas not until2006, with the
approval o f the State Law on Local Budgets, that municipal financial responsibilities and
procedures themselves were first fully codified inGeorgia (Fig. 1).Eventoday, the
transparency o fmunicipal finance inGeorgia still lags behind several countries that
embarked upon their own decentralization andmunicipal reforms more recently, but from
a stronger base.

1.3     Although its economic growth is currently buoyant, Georgiaremains an IDA-eli-
gible lower-middle income country recently IBRD-eligible too, with a GNIper capita o f
US$1,920 in2007 Atlas method). This is below the reported level o fUS$1,600 in 1991,
Georgia's last year as Soviet republic. Independence was traumatic, however. Economic
disruption led GNP per capita to fall to US$480 by 1994. Civil war leading to the internal
displacement o f 300,000 people erupted over separatist aims o f Abkhazia and South
Ossetia that continue today. Contacts and access to neighboring Russia, once Georgia's
principal trading partner, were interrupted bytwo Chechnya wars on its borders in 1994-
1996 and 1999-2000. Diplomatic andpolitical disputes with Russia havepersisted to this
day(Fig. 1).

      8  fi Baku-Tbilisi-Ceylanoil pipeline.State Law on Local
             Budgets.                                              0   2

      I 1  ~ MDF-G absorbs the GeorgiaSocial InvestmentFund
              1                                                    I l l

      I 1' 1         US PresidentGeorge Bush. New Organic Law on
             LocalSelf Government     -                            I l l
         N   South Ossetiauprising. ParliamentratifiesEuropean
       8     Charter of LocalSelf-Government                       0
h
M      0
       N 4 SaakashviliPresident Ajaria incorporated into Georgia.  3-2
                                                                   -
;;
.e
F            Georgiaeligiblefor MillenniumChallengeAccount.
c
V        N   'Rose Revolution'
       0                                                          ~S    z
                                                                    0 0 -
       Nr:


       E     SecondMunicipalElectionsin Georgia




      I I I                                                           I     !




             SecondChechnyawar in Russiaends
      I ! !                                                               I i
             SecondChechnyaWar in Russiabegins                              j
       E
       0)                                                           o q
                                                                    2NC
             Georgia joins Councilof Europe                                 2
                                                                            B
       3"i                                                         ~ O jC
       0 ) .
       r-    First MunicipalElectionsin Georgia                     Em j    c
                                                                            i
       6     Organic Law on LocalSelf Government
                                                                    ov!
       g 4                                                          p o - 1
             MunicipalDevelopmentFundof Georgia (MDF-G) created             .I1
                                                                            A
                                                                            ?

             FirstChechnyaWar in Russiaends                                 I
       c                                                            ZNC
                                                                    - 2 :
         r
      I I   1                                                      I I 1:
             Shevardnardzepresident.New currency 'Lari'. New
             Constitutionof Georgia

         r


             First ChechnyaWar in Russiabegins

             Abkhazia ceasefire




      I I I                                                        I ,      I
         hi  Conflict in Abkhazia.    Georgiajoins World Bank.


             Conflict in South Ossetia

         N                                                         8 3 .!   4
      r
      E  -                                                         '4
                                                                   -N'"f
                                                                            i
             Independenceof Georgia (04/91)                        *    + t r
                                                                            2

                                                 3


1.4      The three municipal development projects reviewed here coveredmost o fthis
period o f Georgia as an independent nation state. The 1994-2000 Georgia Municipal
InfrastructureRehabilitationProject (Cr.2658) called `MIRP' inthis report, aimed to
restore infrastructurewhose maintenance and operationhadbeenneglectedsince the
collapse o f the Soviet Union. The 1997-2002 Georgia First MunicipalDevelopment and
DecentralizationProject (Cr.2976) called `MDDP-I' inthis report, sought to builda
decentralized framework o f service delivery andstrengthen local management directly
involvingmunicipalities. Finally, the 2002-2007 Georgia Second Municipal
Development andDecentralization Project (Cr.3701) called `MDDP-11' inthis report
builtuponits predecessor to try to consolidate the decentralizationprocess already begun.
All three projects aimedto strengthen municipalitiesbychannelingfinancial and
technical assistance to them through the central government

2.        Objectives and Design

2.1      Although these three projects formed a defacto sequence o f Bank support to the
municipal sector o f Georgia, they were not conceived apriori as a series. Hindsight gives
us no more reason now to believe that planninga series o fprogrammatic loans at the
outset would havebeen feasible involatile country conditions over such a longperiod.
Thus each operationgrew out o fthe experience o fits predecessor (details Box 1).

2.2      MIRPwas aquasi-emergency responseto the urgent needsofcitieswiththeir
urban services andinfrastructure made derelict by the cessation o f Soviet support and
years o f zero investment andmaintenance. The project's objective o f laying the
foundation for municipal reform, together with its focus uponpreserving and improving
existing services remains modestly relevant to the priorities o f GOG's decentralization
policy that i s still tryingto assert itselftoday. The relevance o f this project was lessened
somewhat by the separate difficult-to-measure objective o f "reinforcing local government
credibility". Taken together, the objectives were very ambitious, given the precarious
governance inGeorgia at boththe national and municipal levels at the time ofproject
appraisal inthe mid 1990s.

2.3     The second operation, MDDP-I, focused more directly upon strengthening
municipal management-found,          duringthe implementationo fMIRP,to bemuchweaker
thanexpected. Fordirectly referencing support for decentralizationthencautiously
underway, andhighlightingthe very poor infrastructure endowment o f Georgia's cities
that persists today, IEGrates the objectives o f this project as still being substantially
relevant. These priorities are consistent with the emphasis o fthe latest 2005 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Georgia and its priority for strengthening public sector
management. Notwithstanding substantial project restructuring at mid-term to speed
implementation, the project remained true to the original objective, the one that IEGuses
as the basis o f this evaluation.

2.4     The third andmost recent operation, MDDP-11,continued to give attention to
municipalmanagement as its predecessor had done. But it focused more tightly upon
improvingservice delivery efficacy o fmunicipalities, perhaps less ambitious but a more
realistic aim. Since overcoming this weakness fits perfectly into the 2005 CPS strategy

                                                        4


just mentionedandcontinues to be the priority number one o fGOG's decentralization
policy, IEGrates the objective o fthis project as being substantially relevant.




Box1:GEORGIA            MUNICIPAL       DEVELOPMENT     PROJECTS       -DESIGNSUMMARIES
                     Objectives                                                Components


                                                 1994-2000
(a) To provide a foundation for future reforms    (i) Institutional development (final cost US$1.95 m.). Creation of
aimed at improvingoverall management and          (hostingtemporary project implementationunit - PIU to implement
                                                  IndependentAgency for Developmentof MunicipalServices
delivery of crucial municipalservices.
(b) To preserve essentialinfrastructureand        the project); Technicalassistanceand studies related to project
municipalservices.                                implementation,public awareness, master planfor Tbilisi
(c) To improvemanagement and delivery of          water/solidwaste and municipalservices, includinghousing.
municipalservices in a sustainable and            (ii)Infrastructure (finalcost: US$15.3m.). Tbilisi ImmediateAction
environmentally beneficialmanner.                 Plan (weatherproofingof 23 hospitaland school buildings;
(d) To reinforcecredibilityof localgovernments    provisionof dedicatedelectricity linesfor 15 hospitals;spare parts
through visible interventionsto reinstatepublic   and equipmentfor undergroundand other publictransport); Short-
confidencelensuresocialstability.                 term investmentProgram(rehabilitationof essential municipal
                                                  infrastructurein Tbilisi Batumi and Poti)
IDA Credit:
committedUS$lS.Om.; disbursed US$l 7.7m.

          MDDP-I: First Municipal Development and Decentralization Project (0.2976)
                                                 1997-2002
(a) To assist the decentralizationprocessat the   (i) Institutional development (finalcost: US$3.5m.) Preparation
central and local government level.               of MunicipalDevelopmentAgreements (MDAs) that includeda
(b) To promoteimprovementsin financialand         municipalaudit, a financialand administrativerehabilitationplan,
administrativemanagement as well as municipal     and a priority investmentplan. Nationallevel IDthrough national
investmentprograms.                               informationsystems about municipalservicedelivery:analysis of
(c) To support urgent local investments.          policy alternatives;evaluationof the impactof investmentsupon
(d) To generate employment opportunities.         municipalfinance; projectcoordinationunit; and studies.
                                                  (ii) Physical investments (finalcost: US$20.0m.). Roads,
                                                  drainage, lighting,water supply, sanitation,social, educational,
                                                  health, and cultural facilities. Construction, rehabilitationand
IDA Credit:                                       maintenancesub-projectsup to US$500,000.
committed US$20.9m.; disbursed US$20.9m.




(a) To increasethe effectivenessof participating  (i) Institutional strengthening (final cost US$3.6 m). Localand
Local Government Units(LGUs) in identification,   inter-governmentalaccounting/reporting/borrowing (national level):
planning, delivery and cost recovery for local    financial managementfor LGUs; land tax collection;Assessment
infrastructureand utilityservices.                and strategyfor LGU sector: TNtraining for institutional
                                                  strengtheningof MDF; LGU relatedstudies.
IDA Credit:                                       (ii) Investment projects (final cost US$27.3 in.). Grant and loan
committedUSS19.4 m.; disbursed US$22.5m.          financingto LGUsfor specific development projects.



2.5       IEGrates MIRP's design as beingmodestly relevant to achievingits stated
objectives. It included components to enable key services to continue during Georgia's
hardwinters. Urgently neededweatherproofing andheatingo f schools meant that they
didnot have to close downincold weather. For the ICR, this urgency meant emergency.
This also meant rapidpreparationand exemption from economic analysis. Butthe project
was infact a Specific Investment Loan (SIL), and not an EmergencyRecovery Credit
(ERC) typically usedby the Bank for reconstruction after a natural disaster. As a SIL
with a new borrower, the design couldhave done more for cost-benefit analysis and
providedmore assistance for procurement management, challenging for a new client.

                                               5


More generally, the project design didnot factor inthe paucity o f data and information in
Georgia at that time. Unlikethe LatinAmerican context whence the municipal
development project (MDP) design concept came, Georgia lacked reliable data on
municipal finance and environmental conditions. How could a credit model work with
municipalities whose true financial positionwas not even knownto themselves?
Producing andusingbetter information on municipal finances should be the first, indeed
prior steps. Onthe other hand, project complexity was contained by initially limiting
interventions to just three cities, although subsequent political pressure added four more.
GOGalso determined up-front the sectors eligible for MIRPfunding, namely district
heating, power supply, urbantransport, water supply, wastewater treatment and solid
waste disposal. MIRPwas designed to focus upon sub-projects within these sectors that
met the following (broad) criteria: (i)  essential for the survival and health o f the
population; (ii)  necessary for labor mobility and economic activity; (iii) repairs to
                                                                             quick
services; (iv) minimizing risks o fhighsocial costs; (v) where alternative sources o f
funding are not available. Following the standards o f earlier Bank-financed MDPsin
other countries, physical sub-projects accounted for about 90 percent o fproject costs. The
remaining 10percent was designed for institutional development particularly to
strengthen national institutions supportingmunicipal development inGeorgia. For
implementation, the project authority was wisely entrusted to a temporary Project
ImplementationUnit (PIU) centrally located with the Ministry o f Finance (MOF). At that
time MOF was the only GOGdepartment familiar with the Bank. Project preparationwas
quick and efficient, partly financedby Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and a bridging
loan from the Soros Foundation.

2.6      MDDP-1'sdesign was modestly relevant. Itincludedmore institutional
components at the municipal level than its predecessor MIRP, and instigatedthe
requirement, absent from MIRP,that participating municipalities enter into Municipal
Development Agreements (MDAs). According to the Bank's appraisal, the project design
incorporatedkey lessons from IEG's (formerly OED) earlier PPAR o f the Brazil:
Municipal Development Project inParana (Ln.3 100) about the importance o f clear
eligibility criteria for municipal participation insuch a project (PAD p. 60). These MDAs
would lay out the baselines andtargets o fperformance-based municipal lending. In
theory, this performance-based design should have encouraged competition among
municipalities to participate inthe project. Inpractice, however, that advantage was lost
when GOG decided to select the twelve participating municipalities up-front, makingthe
M D A s somewhat redundant. Their redundancybecame a certainty with the legal opinion
that an MDA could not be upheld under Georgian law, andthe necessary legislation was
not introduced. A serious flaw inthe design o fthe implementation arrangements was
later corrected. The original design provided for two separate PIUs, one to oversee
institutional development and the other to supervise physical investments. Apart from the
inevitable conflicts that arose between them, this arrangement split the two lines o f
project business that, inthe classic municipal development project concept, are meant to
move aheadhand-in-hand, one supporting the other. The problem was later fixed by
consolidating all responsibilitiesunderjust one PIU, locatedwithin MDF-Gthat was to
become a key player not only inthese projects, but inGeorgia's development more
generally. Another weakness o fthe design was to consider that "a traditional economic
analysis (of sub-projects) was not feasible" (PAD p. 31).This ledto underreporting o f
efficiency, making it non-evaluable for this project.

                                                6


2.7     MDDP-I1hadastronger designandwas substantiallyrelevantto achievingits
more focused objective, although performance targets continued to be optimistic,
surprisingly so for athirdoperationo fits type inGeorgia. Butmore explicitly thanits
predecessors, this project did spell out formula and conditions for municipal participation
inproject funding.Itintroducedanew financing formulaunderstoodbyallparties,
namely 40 percent of financing by MDF-G loan, 40 percent MDF-Ggrant and 20 percent
municipal counterpart. MDF-Gloans were for 10 years with one year's grace and annual
interest o f 15 percent. For the first time, participatingmunicipalities had to sign legally
bindingProject Development Agreements that incorporatedfinancial targets and
obligations o f municipalities receiving the credit. Again, muchneeded institutional deve-
lopment support featured prominently among the components. Onthe physical
investment side, the components were similar to those o f the earlier projects. But they
were and still are sorely needed inGeorgia's poorly served cities. The criteria for sub-
projects to be eligible for MDDP-I1finance were more explicit than under prior
operations. Thus, they were requiredto improve social, environmental andpublic health
standards andpromote local economic development. Specific sub-projects had to be
technically feasible, least cost and demonstrate a `positive' economic rate o freturn.
These requirements were met and compliance with safeguards were laid out ina detailed
operational manual specially prepared for this project.

3.       Implementationand Costs

3.1     One after the other, the three projects were implementedover the 1994-2007
period o f continuous Bank engagement inGeorgia's municipal development sector.
Altogether for the three operations, the Bank disbursed a total o f US$63.7 million inIDA
funding. The projects investedUS$9.1 millionininstitutional support andUS$68.6
million inphysical investments infifteen cities, 45 percent o f which went to the capital
Tbilisi. Together, the fifteen project cities were home to four fifths o fthe urban
population o f Georgia. Most physical investment went to roads (43 percent o f the total)
andto water supply and sewerage (36 percent) sub-projects (details Table 1).Most sub-
projects made positive contributions to the urban environment. Proper solid waste
disposal helpedlimit the casual discarding o f trash and sewage treatment reduced the
pollution o fwater courses. Project interventions such as these helped improve the
environmental and public healthconditions o f the cities where they were implemented.
Street and road improvements contributed to cleaner air inresidential neighborhoods
through reducing intense dust residue from heavy commercial traffic usingunpaved
streets andhighways. The IEGmission saw several environmental improvements like
these and found no reports o fnon-compliance with relevant Bank safeguards.

3.2     Unrest andpolitical and economic transition delayed M1RF"s start up and
implementation. Secession inAbkhazia and two wars inneighboring Chechnya cut land
borders with Russiamaking suppliers unable or unwillingto deliver project equipment to
Georgia. Inthe earliest days, the PlUhad to arrange for project goods to be picked up in
other neighboring countries. Inthese circumstances, it was not easy to find interested
foreign bidders. Costs were higher than expected. Shortage o f local fimding at one point
ledto a desperate measure when the Borrower used an overnight bridgingloan to falsely
demonstrate that there were sufficient counterpart funds to justify signing a works

                                               7


contract. When the funds were not found, implementationhadto be stalled until
additional resources could be mobilized. A subsequent investigation found no
wrongdoing bythe PIU. Another challenging aspect o f implementationfor the new
Borrower was protracted procurement management that ledto more delays. For all bid
contracts to be completed, project closing had to be extended for 3.5 years, when the PIU,
too, was formally wound up.Project physical investments were mostly repairs to keep
key urban services working, such as water and sewerage, heating services and streets.
Tbilisi took 70 percent o f the total. The project retainedits focus mostlyupon the three
cities initially chosen; Tbilisi, Batumi andPoti, although token investments were made in
five more. Sub-project selection was, for the most part, at the national level, as foreseen
inthe project design. Institutionaldevelopment support involvedo ftraining 2,000
municipal and MDF-Gstaff intaxation, financial management andprocurement through
more than 100seminars andworkshops. Inaddition the project organized studytours
that took municipal officials and city mayors to Brazil andFrance.

3.3     MDDP-Iwas offto abetter start, withbothBank andBorrower more familiar
with this kindo foperation inGeorgia. Although credit effectiveness was on time, the
rhythmofdisbursement was onlyhalfthat expected. The maincausewas that hasty
project preparation-just   four months from project concept note to Board approval-had
left many important project details still to beworked out. Most significantly (and time
consuming duringimplementation) these included the terms and conditions for financing
municipal sub-projects. GOGwas slow, too, to budget its counterpart funding
contribution, although it exceeded its expected contribution by closing. By the original
December 2001 closing date, 68 percent o f the Credit hadbeen disbursed. With large
ongoing contracts still unfinished, one twelve month extension was sufficient to fully
disburse the remainder. The project's midtermreview was well usedto bringa sharper
focus to project objectives o fimprovingmunicipal management. It also led GOG to
intervene more directly inthe choice ofmunicipalities and sub-projects than even the
cautious decentralized design had intended. Since the restructuring also meant dropping
two other objectives, the first assisting decentralizationandthe second generating
employment, it shouldnormally have requiredapproval o fthe Bank's Boardo f Directors.
Itwas not done inthis case. Onthe physical side, this project investedmore inwater than
its predecessor, andnothing insewerage. There was still significant investment inroads
andstreets, althoughMDF-Greports fall short ofshowing how muchwas investedin
each city. For that reason, the apparent decline o f Tbilisi's share o fthe total project
investment to just 22 percent may understate the participation o f the capital city.
Altogether, eleven municipalities participated inthe project's physical investment, all
apart from Tbilisi and Batumi ina minor way. Municipal eligibility was meant to be
performance-based, but MDF-Gincluded some non-creditworthy municipalities, such as
Ambrolauri, to meet GOG equity aims o f covering most o f Georgia's twelve regions.

I               ;:  N

                    N
                    Y




      specified)



      Ambrolauri
                  -
 m               w
                 N



       Chiatura
.-E
-
.--
6 Ozurgeti


        Telavi

'El
c




CI



-
B
-.-.-   Kutaisi


z       Tbilisi

                                               9


3.4     MDDP-11'simplementationwas somewhat more efficient than its predecessors.
The Credit became effective on time inFebruary 2003, but implementation stalled as
Georgia's famous "Rose Revolution" took holdnine months later. After that,
disbursements accelerated, but only 76 percent o f the credit was disbursed by the original
closing date. An 18 month extension was needed to fully disburseit. Like its
predecessor's, this project's midtermreview in2004 was well used to reassessthe
realism o f the still optimistic municipal performance targets set at appraisal.
Implementationcoincided with a f`iuitfulperiod ofmunicipal reform inGeorgia; the
ratification o f the European Charter o f Local Self-Government in2004, a new Organic
Law on Local Self-Governing bodies in2005, and the 2006 State Law on Local Budgets.
Butthese reformscame too lateto be fully exploitedbythe project itself. Physical
investments were more concentrated inwaterhewerage and roadshtreets (91percent o f
the total) than those o fthe earlier projects were. For the first time inthis series o fthree
MDPsinGeorgia, the selection o fmunicipalities and sub-projects was at least partly
drivenby the performance o f the cities themselves. Also, Tbilisi once again took a
prominent role byhosting47 percent o f all physical investments. Financing emergency
reconstructionwork following the 2005 floods inthe capital city was partlyresponsible.
Institutional development featured prominently amongproject activities but largely
through piecemeal interventions, such as a traffic management study for Tbilisi and a
database for managing utility services inBatumi. A broader intervention, the design o f
nationwide municipal budget and finance reportingsystem, was prepared and
implemented at the closure o f the project.

4.        Monitoring and Evaluation

4.1     Although still inneed o f strengthening, M&Eimproved somewhat through exper-
ience gained bythe Bank and Borrower inthe successive implementation o f each o fthese
three projects. The Performance o f each one's M&Ei s reviewed andrated separately
here.

4.2     MID'SM&Eisratednegligibleoverall. M&Edesignhadsome good features,
such as 18 performance indicators to measure progress toward achieving the objective of
preservingessential services. They includedthe reduction inthe numbers o f days lost as a
result o f schools having to close through cold weather. But while the concept made
theoretical sense, the M&Ecould not be implementedinpractice for lack of data. That
meant that there were also no measures for the baselines and targets. Indeed,there could
not have been. Thus the M&E could not be implementedor utilized. Hencethe low rating
given here.

4.3     IEGrates the M&E o fMDDP-I overall also as negligible. The design was
focused too heavily upon monitoring project implementation and reliedtoo muchupon
monitoring input indicators such as the numbero f sub-projects completed and the number
ofpeople trained. Monitoringdata was not complete even for this more limitedset o f
indicators. Even so, the I C R only reported qualitative results pertaining to halfthe
eighteen indicators listed. InGeorgia itself, the IEGmission found no documented source
to informthe systematic achievement ofproject objectives of improved municipal finan-
cial management, for example. Ineffect, the M&Ewas not designed to track

                                               10


achievements inareas such as this. While the S A R hadreferred to impact evaluations to
be carried out at completion, IEGcould findno evidence o f them.

4.4      MDDP-II'sM&Eisratedmodest overall. The design initiallyfocused uponthree
measurable performance indicators and targets for municipalities, namely: (i)    increasing
municipal own revenues by 10percent at completion; (ii)      increased collection o f landtax
byparticipatingmunicipalitiesby20 percent at completion; (iii)     doubling the number o f
creditworthy municipalities entitle to borrow from the project from five to ten. Although
useful for measuringthe effectiveness o f resource mobilization inmunicipal
management, these indicators can tell us little about municipal effectiveness in
infrastructure and service delivery-that   the project aimed to improve. While increasing
own revenues canbe a good thing for municipalities, it does not demonstrate that the
municipalities used the additional resources effectively for service delivery. For that,
M&Ewouldneedsupplyside indicatorsofurban services. Since Georgia's financial
reporting system for municipalities was only up and runningin2007, it was able to
provide little reliable data to measure the original indicators. Moreover, the "Rose
Revolution" had abolished land taxes on plots o f less than five hectares, meaning that
municipalities were no longer able increase these collections. For these reasons hard
financial targets had to be abandoned at midterm and replacedby "softer" aims. Despite
this, the adjustment allowed the M&Eto be utilized, an improvement onthe M&E o f the
earlier projects. One of these-doubling the number o fmunicipalities able to identify
their priority needs, for instancewas closer to beinga supply-side indicator. But
whether this can be deemed a worthwhile achievement for a city that had already been
working with Bank-financed municipal development projects for more that ten years i s
questionable. Past experience with municipal development projects shows that such
results can generally be garnered muchmore quickly.

5.       ProjectOutcomes by Objective

MIRP
5.1      Afoundation for municipal reform and better services: negligibly achieved.
While the project sensibly did not promise the reforms themselves, very little was
achieved inlaying the groundwork for new ways for municipalities to conduct the
business o f service provision. Neither the municipalities themselves nor GOGwere
prepared for the autonomous and acoountable access to credit that the project hoped to
introduce. Perhaps the only achievement o f the project inthis regardwas the growing
realization at the local level that municipalities had some responsibility for the provision
of urban services and infrastructureintheir areas. A recent study found in2005, five
years after the completion of this operation, that "Georgia is only at the very first stages
o f its decentralization reforms." (UNDP 2005) It should be noted that this objective was
implicitly dropped at the project's midtermreview. But IEGconsiders it still a relevant
objective for evaluationpurposes, since a change o f objective needs to be formalized
through an amendment to the legal agreements approvedbythe Bank's Board o f
Directors. This was not done.

                                                11


5.2     Preserving essentialinfrastructure and services: substantially achieved.
Through investing in"weatherproofing"-that          meant repairing heating systems and
improving insulation-the       project enabled healthclinics and schools to continue
operatingthroughout Georgia's hardwinters infive municipalities. As old systems failed,
these facilities simply could not be used at all, and schools would have to close incold
weather. Increased water production was made possible byproject investment innew
supplylines andrepairs to existingpumpingstations inKutaisi and Tbilisi. Although
more water was produced following these improvements, the actual supply to consumers
often remainedpoor. Consumers connected to the distribution network inthe Tsavkisi
district o f Tbilisi, for instance, beganreceiving water three times a week one hour at a
time. This i s still inadequate, but a lot better than the once-a-week service that consumers
hadbefore the project. Dysfunctional sewerage systems inBatumi and Potibefore the
project, that left raw sewage to accumulate, beganworking again thanks to project
rehabilitation o fpumpingstations. But the most visible service rehabilitation of all was
project investment insignaling and spareparts for the Tbilisi Metro. Service on the 27
kmsystembuiltduring 1967-1971that now carries 301,000 passengersper day would
have ceased altogether without the project rescue, accordingto IEG's interlocutors inthe
city.

5.3     Improve management and delivery of municipal services in a sustainable and
environmentally benefcial manner: modestly achieved. Most physica1investments
were inenvironmentally neutral sub-projects that preserved existing services. The urban
environment improvedin a few localities incities where sewage systems hadbeen
repaired. These were good results, but they were few.

5.4     More credible municipal government: negligibly achieved: IEGfound no
convincing evidence about this. The project design itselfcould have done a betterjob
specifying exactly what this credibility meant. While on field visits, IEGasked local
people to name the provider o f the new services. Inmost cases, people didnot know
about the municipal involvement; an unlikely scenario to buildcredibility o f the local
authority. IEGagrees with the ICR that this was an imprecise aim and one whose
achievement is difficult, ifnot impossible to measure without the necessary baseline
surveys showing what the credibility hadbeenbefore the project.

MDDP-I
5.5     Assisting decentralization: modestly achieved: Just by involving eleven o f
Georgia's largest municipalities within one single development program, the project did
draw attentionto decentralization. Actual progress indecentralizingcontrol and
responsibilities to the municipal level was modest, however. A plannedproject study o f
inter-governmental fiscal relations insupport o f decentralization was not carried out, for
instance. As intendedunder this operation itself, central government remained largely
responsible for the choice o fparticipating municipalities and the selection o f investment
subprojects. A top-down approach to project management was not surprisinginthe 1990s
Georgia. GOG was shaking o f fthe last vestiges o f Soviet centralism and dealingwith
breakaway secession inthree parts o f the country. Evenso, the central government did
give increasingrecognition to municipalities as future partners indevelopment, simply by
involving them directly inthis project. Even a strong GOGcommitment to decentralize

                                                  12


could not have accelerated the process much, however. At that time municipalities
themselves were still too weak to manage the service delivery so badly needed intheir
cities.

5.6      Better municipal management and investments: modestly achieved: Technical
assistancewas providedto MOF and municipalities for designing and adopting Georgia's
new integrated financial reporting system, to be effective inall municipalities shortly.
The project provided computer equipment to participatingmunicipalities, but inthe cities
visitedthe IEGmissionwas struck bytheir limitedcapacity to use it. Duringat times
surprise visits by IEGto various municipal departments, local staff didnot find it easy to
access informationabout past and ongoing investments inurban services quickly.GOG's
management o fits municipal affairs tightened under the project, but success was only
modest. Performance-based instruments, such as creditworthiness assessments and
MunicipalDevelopment Agreements (MDAs) introduced byMDF-Gwere well understood
bymunicipalities, butnot applied inpractice. Credit was extendedto the small town o f
Ambrolauri, for example, that far exceededthe localmunicipality's capacity to service.
Latest figures show Ambrolauri's debt to MDF-Gamounts to US$S5 per local inhabitant,
more thanten times Tbilisi's equivalent per capita figure ofUS$7.6. h4DA's with
municipal promises o fimproving local tax collection took second placeto GOG's equity
criteria to determine the distribution o f funds among different cities to ensure that most
regions o fthe country were represented.

5.7      Supporting urgent municipal investments: substantially achieved: The project
successhlly introduced a wide range o fpriority urbaninvestments into eleven
municipalitiesacross the country. The greatest andmost visible improvement, evident
duringIEGfield visits, was inurbanroadandstreetpaving andimproveddrainage. Before
the project, some roads were so badly potholed to be almost impassable to normaltraffic.
Lack o fpavingpolluted the air with dust particles. Drainage blockedby eroded material or
absent altogether would cause frequent neighborhood flooding. The project invested more
thanhalfits resourcesintoroadandstreetpavinganddrainage, through 34 sub-projects
according to MDF-G.While MDF-G's report provides the name and locationo f each sub-
project, it does not give the costs o f each one, so that we cannot tell how the project
expenditure was distributedamong cities. Most roadpaving that IEGsaw was of good
quality. All sub-projects were inspected on aregular basis byMDF-Gengineers. But inone
case, IEGdidsee a serious foundation failure inBatumi that resulted inthe significant
vertical misalignment o fconcrete sections o fthe roadway. This was causedby frequent
passageo fheavier trucks than the roadwas designed for. Better traffic management bythe
city couldhave re-directed this traffic elsewhere. Project water supply investments,
principally to increase water productionto feed into existing distributionnetworks, had
mixed results across municipalities. Inthe city o fTelavi, for instance, IEGheard citizens'
complaints that water was still available to them only three times a week for a few hours at
a time. Beforethe project, the service was available only once a week for anhour at a time!
ButIEGalso saw examples o fmore successfulinvestments. These includedaretaining


1According to the most recent audited accounts o fMDF-G(for end2005), municipalloanreceivables from
Ambrolauri and Tbilisi were US$205,068 andUS$8,772,815 respectively. The per capita figures reported
inthetext derive fromdividingtheseamountsbythepopulations ofAmbrolauri(2,408) andTbilisi
(1,106,539).

                                              13


wall to prevent a river eroding anold city solid waste dump inBatumi andpollutingthe
nearby Black Sea. Onthe social side, project investment to repair the heating system ofthe
principal school inAmbrolauri hadenabledthat small town to resume its educational
program infill.

5.8     Generating employmentopportunities: modestly achieved: Mostly through the
5,000 short-term jobs with 47 contractors o f the project works themselves reportedinthe
ICR. IEGdidnot find examples ofother project effort to create employmentinthe
participatingmunicipalities.

MDDP-I1
More effective municipalities in service delivery: substantially achieved. Simply having
nine municipalities become creditworthy and able to identify their priority needs for
urban infrastructure and services, are important first steps toward achieving this
objective. Project client cities such as Kutaisi, andPoti, became eligible for grants from
the Millennium Challenge Georgia Account (MCGA) to invest intheir still very weak
water supply services. Today, MOF explicitly recognizes the importance o f
municipalities as service providers-without     passingjudgment upontheir effectiveness
(Georgia 2007 p. 8). But for cities that have benefited from this and earlier municipal
development projects (MDPs) over more than ten years, we might expect to see greater
achievements. MDPs inother countries have been able to achieve results more quickly,
especially where existingmunicipal capacity i s stronger. Still, the better results more
recently obtained inGeorgia do show that the MDP model design can work, albeit at a
slower pace, even inGeorgia's particularly challengingcountry circumstances. The
national scope o f the project's impact inGeorgia was significant however. The nine
project municipalities were home to 73 percent o f the country's urbanpopulation. They
appear to take cost recovery more seriously. A study o f 2002-2005 found that they
increased their own revenues over this periodby 58 percent, compared withjust 35
percent for other municipalities not assistedby the project. The appraisal target for this
indicator was just 20 percent (MDDP-I1PADp. 26). The IEGmission saw how this kind
o fresult hadbeen achieved inPoti, through considerable improvements to the city's
financial management especially inaccounting and information systems. The credit for
this resultmust be attributedto TA providedbyUSAID, however. There hadbeen less
progress inKutaisi, where the municipal budget for the year had yet to be finally
approved at the time o f the IEGmission visit inSeptember. Tbilisi had made significant
improvementsto its street lightingwithin the cost recoveryparameters o fthe project.
Municipal officials inall the cities visited by IEGtold the mission that they hadreceived
little TA from MDF-G.At the national level, however, the project will have helpedmake
municipal financial information more transparent throughout Georgia through its support
to the 2006 State Law on Local Budgets. As we still await the actual results o fthis
reform, that will be more apparent as 2007 municipal financial data becomes more widely
available. The Region reports that the 2007 figures were publishedon time inMarch
2008 and are now available at MOF. IEGcan still only note, however, that, for a country
working closely with the Bank on municipal development for 14 years, such results have
been long overdue and longincoming Georgia can adopt some aspects o fmunicipal
                                          .
information systems developed inother countries, such as the best practice example
Chile's National System o f MunicipalInformation (SINIM http://www.sinim.cl).

                                               14


6.       Ratings

OUTCOME
6.1      MIRP:The overalloutcome ofthe projectisratedModerately unsatisfactory.
While it achieved a few o fits (on average) modestly relevant objectives, there were
significant shortcomings inso doing. Efficacy was substantial inpreserving essential
infrastructure and services that included the Tbilisi Metro, andmodest inproviding
sustainable andenvironmentally beneficial municipal services-that        it didon a small
scale only. Efficacy inachieving the two other project objectives o fproviding a
foundation for municipal reform andbringingmore credibility to local government was
negligible. Efficiency is non-evaluable, although the extended project implementation
itself would point to a loss o f efficiency. Eventhough nearly all subprojects-in    water,
solid waste, heating, and roads, for instance-would      have easily lent themselves to cost-
benefit analysis, economic rates o f return(ERR) were not estimated for them even at
completion. Nor did the project refer to the cost effectiveness o fthe sub-project
investments. The reason for the lack o fERR estimates, according to the ICR, was that
MIRPwas initiallyprepared as anEmergencyRecoveryCredit (ERC) for which Bank
guidelines do not require ERR estimates ex ante. Infact, MIRPwas appraised as a
regular SIL that shouldnot have been thus exempt. Even for an ERC, however, IEG
considers that ERRs should be used as selection criteria for sub-projects during
implementationand as important inputs to evaluation at completion. IEGdidnot find
data to be sufficiently accessible during its mission inGeorgia to allow for quick and
easy estimates o f the internal rates ofreturn o f these investments.

6.2     MDDP-I: The overall outcome o fthe project isratedModerately satisfactory. It
achieved its substantially relevant objectives-more      so than its predecessor MIRP-with
some moderate shortcomings. Efficacy in supporting urgent municipal investments in
priority roads andwater supply was substantial-the project's best result. Efficacy in
improving municipal management was modest. Data on municipalities is still inadequate
today for municipal development to be fully effective. Efficacy ingenerating
employment was modest, and mainly achieved through temporaryjobs insub-project
construction. Little was achieved inassisting decentralizationwhere efficacy inachieving
this objective-effectively   abandoned at project midterm-was        modest. Efficiency is
non-evaluable since there are no ERR estimates o fphysical sub-project investments at
completion, nor were there other estimates of efficiency such as unit cost standards, for
instance. From its inquiriesinGeorgia, IEGconfirms the ICR's report that available
documentation does not demonstrate that ERRs were systematically usedby MDF-Gto
determine the eligibility o f sub-projects for funding, as intended. This ICR like the one
for MIRP, again assertedthat internalrates o f returnwere not necessary, this time on the
grounds o f MDDP-Ibeing a line o f credit operation. Again, IEGwould argue that,
independentlyo f formal procedural requirements, internal rates o freturn should have
provided valuable information for the selection o f sub-projects andto inform the
evaluation of the overall efficiency o f the operation.

                                                      15




                Objectives                      Relevance Efficacy        Efficiency Outcome


(a) To providea foundationfor future reforms      Modest      Negligible     Non-
aimedat improvingoverall managementand
delivery of crucial municipalservices.                                     evaluable

(b)To preserveessential infrastructureand       Substantial   Substantial    Non-
municipalservices                                                          evaluable
(c)To improvemanagementand delivery of            Modest       Modest        Non-
municipalservices in a sustainableand
environmentallybeneficialmanner                                            evaluable

(d)To reinforcecredibilityof localgovernments    Negligible   Negligible     Non-
through visible interventionsto reinstatepublic
confidencelensuresocial stability                                          evaluable

                                      Overall:    Modest       Modest        Non-      Moderately
                                                                           evaluable  Unsatisfactory


(a)To assist the decentralizationprocessat       Substantial   Modest        Non-
the centraland localgovernmentlevel                                        evaluable

(b)To promoteimprovementsin financialand           High        Modest        NOn-
administrativemanagementaswell as
municipalinvestmentprograms.                                               evaluable

(c)To support urgent local investments.          Substantial  Substantial    Non-
                                                                           evaluable

(d)To generateemploymentopportunities            Substantial   Modest        Non-
                                                                           evaluable

                                      Overall:  Substantial    Modest         Non      Moderately
                                                                           evaluable   Satisfactory



(a)To increasethe effectivenessof               Substantial  Substantial  Substantial
participatingLocalGovernmentUnits (LGUs)in
identification,planning,delivery and cost
recoveryfor local infrastructureand utility
services
                                      Overall:  Substantial  Substantial  Non-        Satisfactory
                                                                          evaluable




6.3        MDDP-11:The overalloutcome o fthe project isratedSatisfactory, since the
project helped make municipalities more effective inservice delivery, achieving its
substantially relevant objective, with only minor shortcomings. Efficacy was substantial.
For the first time inGeorgia's short history o flocal government, progress was made under
cost recoveryunder this project, as reflectedinthe stronger municipal finances reported by
the participatingcities. Also for the first time, municipalities assumed financial and
managerial responsibilities for the extra local services providedunder the project. Having
the nine participatingmunicipalities able to identify their priority needs is important, too,
butmustberegarded as amodest achievement especiallybymunicipalities that hadalready

                                             16


participated inthree MDFs over a periodo fmore thanten years, when compared with
progress inother countries. InGeorgia, however, the results didcome, albeit slowly.
Efficiency is ratedsubstantial given that manyo fthe subprojects generated adequate
internalrates o freturn. InGeorgia, IEGsaw examples o fthe more than40 sub-projects
(against a target o f 30) that yielded ERRSabove 15 percent, as reported bythe ICR

RISKTODEVELOPMENT           OUTCOME

6.4     M I .ratedLow: Mostmunicipalitiesare able to maintainthe infrastructureand
services provided through the project. From discussions with the IEGmission municipal
officials demonstrated the importancethey attached to this. After all, they have recent
memories o f service collapse following the neglect o f operations andmaintenance inthe
immediate post-Soviet period. Duringfield visits to selected cities, IEGcould confirm the
good state o frepair o fmost these assets. Furthermore, municipal administrations today
will be inabetter position to operate andmaintainthis infrastructureifthey choose to
allocate some o f their newly gained own revenues for this purpose.

6.5     MDDP-Irated Low: The MDF-Gcreated under the project has successfully
evolved from being a temporary PIUto becoming one o f GOG's principal agencies for
managingpublic service investment. MDF-Ghas since expanded to administer the credit
o fmore and more sectors. As it looks more and more like a permanent fixture o f
government, it will be able to continue to provide support for urgentmunicipal
investments.

6.6     MDDP-11rated Low: For similarreasons given under MDDP-I.MDF-Ghas
continued to consolidate. Its accounts for 2006 reported a modest profit o f 4.9 percent o f
total income, but substantially higher than the 0.9 percent reportedby the 2005 audited
accounts. Municipaldefaults have been few. Municipalities themselves are slowly but
surely buildingtheir service delivery capabilities.

BANKPERFORMANCE
6.7     MI.    rated Moderately unsatisfactory (bothfor quality at entry and quality of
supervision): Drawingupon the experience o fwell tried municipal development projects
inLatinAmericaparticularly, the Bank couldhavebeenmorerealistic indetermining
what could be achieved with a new Borrower inexperiencedwith Bank methods and
procedures. That lack o f experience meant that the Bank hadto oversee most details o f
preparationdirectly, something that it didquickly with little learning spillover for local
staff. But the quality o fpreparationwas undermined by Bank staffs lack o f familiarity
with Georgia andthe unwillingnesso fconsultants to work inthe country inthe 1990s,
with its insecurity, frequent powerblackouts andcommunicationbreakdowns. IEG
agrees with the ICR that the quality o f Bank supervision was wanting. Financial oversight
was so weak that supervision missions were unable to report the financial performanceo f
the project accurately untilmidterm. Eventhen, auditors continued to give qualified
endorsement only to the project accounts, owing to poor financial record keeping.

6.8     MDDP-IratedModerately satisfactory (moderately unsatisfactoryfor quality at
entry andmoderately satisfactory for quality o f supervision): Quick project preparation-
this time inless than four months-was     again notable, but the perhaps unnecessary haste

                                               17


left many project details to be worked out duringimplementation. Supervisionmissions
were better staffed than those o f the earlier project, inpart because the Bank itself was
becoming more familiar with Georgia. Also, the Bank spent twice as muchon
supervisingthis project than on its predecessor. But supervisionoversight became uneven
when there was a turnover o fBank task managers, something that happened four times.
One result o fthis was the inadequate information about the project's financial
performance and the lack o f ERR estimates for sub-project investments at completion.
Onthe other hand, the Borrower reportedreceiving valuable advice from the Bankduring
implementation, especially on procurement.

6.9     MDDP-11rated Satisfactory (moderately satisfactory for quality at entry and
highly satisfacto ryfor quality of supervision): Again, project preparationwas somewhat
hasty. It didnot take fully into account the performancebymunicipalities underpast
projects. Thus, good prior municipal performance was not rewarded, nor was past weak
performancepenalized. Onthe other hand, flexible and imaginative supervisionhelped
overcome these shortcomings. Interestingly, supervision duringthe Rose Revolution took
particular care to fully document discussions and agreements inmission Aide memoires
with a succession o fdifferent officials with whom Bankmissionshadto meet. Insuch
volatile circumstances, the Aide Memoires truly livedup their name. Hence the overall
higher rating than for the earlier projects.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE
6.10    MIRPratedModerately unsatisfactoryfor bothgovernmentperformance andfor
implementing agencyperformance): Inimplementing the project, the newborrower faced
an enormous challenge; a transition that saw public finances depleted and a general
economic meltdown. Added to this, inexperience indealing with the Bank left the
Borrower ina Catch-22 situation. Ithad to hire consultants to buildknowledge about
Bankprocurementandhiringpractices, but didnot know how to go about hiringthe
consultants precisely because o f its lack o fknowledge about those procedures. This was
inspite oftrainingprovidedbythe Bank.Notably, the PrcTfailedto keep accurate
financial records duringimplementation, to the point that auditors were unable to give an
unqualified opinion on any o fthem. Lax or inaccurate financial reporting may, o f course,
give rise to concerns about possible improbity. But duringthe course o f its normal PPAR
missionwork, IEGsaw no evidence o f corrupt practices relating to the project. As agreed
at appraisal, the Borrower wound up the project PIUat completion, reassigning its staff to
other agencies and government departments.

6.11 MDDP-I rated Moderately satisfactory (satisfactory for government
performance and moderately satisfacto ryfor implementing agencyperformance):
Performance improvedprincipally through GOG's decision to create MDF-Gas project
PIU. Itbecame Georgia's main instrument for strengthening the institutional and
financial capacities o fmunicipalities and improving urbanservice delivery. Where MDF-
Gperformancefell short, however, was inallowing geographical equity criteria to
override performance tests o fmunicipal eligibility to participate inthe project. This
meant providing financial support to some municipalities that were not truly
creditworthy. While there were some delays inproviding government counterpart

                                                         18


funding, municipalities generally kept to their commitments andprovidedthe funding
expected o f them.

6.12     MDDP-11rated
Satisfactory Gfor both           Box2:
governmentperformance            MUNICIPAL           DEVELOPMENT OFGEORGIA A SYNOPSIS
                                                                         FUND            -
andfor implementing              Established: June 7, 1997
agencyperformance):              Objective:To render assistanceto strengtheningthe institutionaland financial
Performance continuedto                        capacitiesof localself-governmental bodies, making investments in
                                               infrastructureand services.
improve under this               Activities: MDF-Gcooperateswith localself-governmentunits-I 2 are
project, although there                        currently receiving assistance-and mobilizes resourcesfor funding
                                               local investment projects.
were still some                  Leadership: Oversight by Supervisory Board led by the Prime-Minister.
shortcomings. Onthe                            Managedby an Executive Directorappointedby the Prime-Minister.

positive side o fmunicipal       Staff:        Currently 98.
                                 Legislation: 1997Decree# 294 establishing MDF-G. 2005 Decree#I027
reform, the Georgian                           merging Georgia Social Investment Fund (GSIF) into MDF-G; 2006
Parliament formally                            Decree#I28 absorbing irrigationwork into MDF-G. 2007 Decree
                                               #I 18absorbing GOG fund for renewable energy resources.2008
recognizedin2005 the                           Decree#74 for MDF-Gto manage GOG's "cheap credit" program.
political importance o f         Sources of funding: GOG, World Bank, KfW, MCGF, EBRD,ADB, Japan,
                                               and repaymentof loans by municipalities.
municipalities inthe             Financials: Total assets US$25.7m; Total revenue US$46.7m.Surplus for
country byratifying the                       year US$6.6m. Loansoutstanding to municipalitiesUS$18.5m.
European Charter o f Local                     Interestincomefrom municipal loans US$2.6m. (auditedfigures for
                                               2006)
Self Government. This
meant GOGrecognition o f         Source: h l l d / w . m d f o r p . n e

municipal property rights
over their own assets, for
instance. Hitherto these assets hadbeenregarded as beingheldintrust by local
government for the nation. GOG commitment to the project remained strong bothbefore
and after the Rose Revolution. More recently, govenunentownership has been evident
from the consolidation andbroadening o fthe scope o fMDF-G. Moreover, its governing
boardi s now chaired by the country's PrimeMinister. MDF-Gabsorbed Georgia's Social
Investment Fund(GSIF) inDecember 2005, investing inmore than 750 micro-enterprise
projects, and also became responsible for Georgia's irrigation programs after June 2006.
MDF-Ghas now beenimplementing agency for several projectsbeyondits original
municipalremit, includingBank fbnded Social InvestmentProjects and an Education
adaptable program loan (APL).Another important development in September 2005 was
the approval o fthe MillenniumChallenge GeorgiaAccount-now                       employing 45 staff in
Tbilisi-with    grant fundingo f US$295 million over five years, o fwhich US$60 million
i s expected to go to municipal development. MDF-G i s responsible for its administration.

7.        Broader IssuesArising from this Evaluation

REMAININGENGAGED THE LONGFOR                   HAUL
7.1      These three successive municipal development projects mark one o f the longest
continuous engagements to date o fBank support for municipal reform. It is particularly
significant for Georgia since it covers most o f that country's history as an independent
state. It also shows how the Bank can remain engaged, even when local political and

                                              19


economic transition has been volatile. The results o f reform, especially autonomous
creditworthy municipalities improving their service delivery, have been slow incoming.
Butit is clear that the little that hasbeen achievedwould not havebeenpossiblethrough
once-off, quick in-and-out operations. By staying engaged andmanagingits engagement
very closely duringthe most volatile times, the Bank became a valued and trusted partner
for many divergent local interests. Along the way, the Bank was able to coordinate its
own efforts successfully with those o f other donors, most recently inthe field o f
municipal development, with the United StatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment
(USAID) and the Millennium Challenge Georgia Fund(MCGF). Experience ofworking
closely with development partners and GOG shows that modest but solid progress canbe
made. Moreover, a unique point o f international contact with the local authorities has
been well established.

MUNICIPAL     REFORMREQUIRESGOOD          INFORMATION
7.2     To design a municipal reformprogramwell andto monitor progress inachieving
reforms, good information is absolutely necessary. InGeorgia, good information about
municipal finances andmanagement capacity was non-existent inthe mid-1990s andis
still very scarce today. How can municipal reform introduce improvements to cost
recovery and creditworthiness when we don't have accurate financial reporting to enable
us to fully understand the financial position o findividual municipalities who are the
targets and agents o f the reform? How can we know where to focus capacitybuilding
when we don't know the humanresource profile ofthe local administration? Inassessing
the performance o f the three operations reviewedhere, IEGcame across inadequate
information again and again. Good information is needed to assess the performance of the
municipal participants inthe reform program too. Other countries have successfully set
upmunicipal information systems inthe public domain, so that interested citizens ina
democratic context can learnhow well their city is performing. Ofparticular note inthis
respect i s Chile's National System o fMunicipal Information (SINIM -
http://www.sinim.cl/)mentioned earlier, a more simplified form o fwhich could easilybe
set up inGeorgia.

8.       Findings andLessons

8.1     Inproviding assistancefor the reformofany sector-municipal        inthis case-
Bank and Borrower need also to help ensure that information systems are adequate for
implementing the reforms and for monitoring progress. Inthe case o f these three projects,
information on municipal finances and on the economic performance o f sub-project
investments was sparse. Georgia's situation inthis regard could be improved by the
greater use o fmunicipal experiences o fother countries.

8.2     Political volatility provides unusual challenges and opportunities for Bank
supervision. It calls for more thorough documentationthan normal, detailing all actions
agreed betweenBank and Borrower. It also requires greater oversight of project financial
management. Inthe case o f Georgia, it didprovide opportunities for the Bank to act as
valued and stable interlocutor intimes o f change.

                                              20


8.3     Major political and economic transition, while offering opportunities for reform,
may slow downprogress with municipal reform inparticular, as national governments
work to establish the effectiveness o f their central control.

8.4     When municipal management i s very weak overall, it makes senseto work first
with stronger andcreditworthy municipalities that are most likely to succeed. InGeorgia,
the national government could recognize and foster these municipalities as models o f
good practice and sources for inspiration andtechnical assistance for others to learn from.

8.5     Time gained through speedy project preparationcan be lost ifimplementationhas
to be extended inorder to resolve matters overlookedby the hasty start-up. Speedy
preparationitselfmay also be o f little benefit when the Bank is involved for the long
haul, as it has been inGeorgia, where project achievements havebeenmade steadily but
slowly.

                                       21


Bibliography

Economist IntelligenceUnit2008. Georgia: Country Report LondonEIU
Georgia MinistryofFinance 2007.A Citizen 's Guide to the 2007-2010 StateBudget of
      Georgia (inEnglishand Georgian) Tbilisi January 2007.
Government of Georgia 2003. Municipal Development Fund of Georgia Tbilisi
UnitedNations Development Programme UNDP 2005, Fiscal Decentralization in
      Transition Economies: CaseStudiesfrom the Balkans and CaucasasBratislava
      UNDP


                                        23


AnnexA. BasicData Sheets

GEORGIA MUNICIPALINFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATION(CR
2658)


                                      Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
                                      estimate      current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                      19.7             20.2               102%
Loan amount                             18.0             17.7                98%
Cofinancing                             0.3               0.4               133%
Cancellation                                              0.3
                                                                                       _.


ProiectDates
                                             Oriainal                   Acfual
Appraisal                                   0911311994                0911311994
Board approval                              11/08/1994                11/08/1994
Signing                                     11/10/1994                 11/I
                                                                          011994
Effectiveness                               0211011995                01119/1995
Closing date                                12/31/1997                0613012000      -
                                                                       --        *----
                                                    ActualMafest Estimate
            Stage of Project Cycle        No. Staff weeks              US$ (`000)
IdentificationIPreparation                     45.2
AppraisallNegotiation                          31.4
Supervision                                    234.2
ICR
Total                                          310.8

                                      24


Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle          No. of Personsand Specialty
                               (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)              Performance Rating


         Monthnear           Count                 Specialty             lmpiementation     Dev.
                                                                           Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation

          June 1994           1       DivisionChief

         August 1994          21       1 DivisionChief, 1 Sr. Urban
                                      Specialist, 1 Sr. Municipal Finance
                                      Spec., 1 Economist, 1
                                       EnvironmentalScientist, 1
                                       EnvironmentalSociologist, 1
                                      OperationsAssistant, 1
                                      ProcurementSpecialist, 1 Sr.
                                       Highway Engineer, 1 Municipal
                                       EngineerConsultant, 1Transport
                                       EngineerConsultant, 1 Pub.
                                       HealthEngineer Consultant, 1
                                      Sanitary Engineer Consultant, 1
                                      Water EngineerConsultant, 1
                                       MechanicalEngineer Consultant,
                                       1 Heating Engineer Consultant, 1
                                       HydrologicalConsultant, 1
                                       ElectricalEngineer Consultant, 1
                                       Coastal EcologicalConsultant, 1
                                      CoastalZone Man Consultant
AppraisaVNegotiations         7        1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1sr.
       September 1994                 MunicipalFinanceSpec., 1
                                       Economist, 1 Environmental
                                      Sociologist,2 Operations
                                      Assistants, 1 Mun.
                                       Engineer/Consultant
Supervision                   4        1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1
        November 1994                 Operations Assistant, 1 Social
                                       Ecologist, 1 ResearchAssistant
          April 1995          5        1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1
                                       ProcurementSpecialist, 1 Social
                                       Ecologist, 1 ResearchAssistant, 1
                                      OperationsAssistant
        December 1995         4        1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1
                                      OperationsAssistant, 1
                                      Procurement Specialist, 1
                                      Municipal Engineer

          June 1996                    1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1
                                      ProcurementSpecialist, 1
                                      OperationsAssistant
           July 1996                  Water Specialist
        October 1996                  1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1 Social
                                      Ecologist
        February 1997                 1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1 Social
      (LimitedMission)                Ecologist, 1Operations Assistant,
                                      1 ProjectOfficer
        October 1997                  1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1
                                      Architectrrechnical Spec., 1
                                      Financial ManagementOfficer

                                            25


Stage of Project Cycle     No. of Persons and Specialty
                          (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)              Performance Rating

      February 1998               1Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1 Financial
                                 ManagementOfficer, 1Water
                                 Engineer, 1 Operations Assistant,
                                  1 InstitutionalSpecialist Financial
                                 Consultant
         July 1998                1 Sr. UrbanSpecialist, 1 Urban
                                 Specialist, 1 Financial
                                 ManagementOfficer
     November 1998                1 UrbanSpecialist, 1
                                 ArchitectrrechnicalSpec. 1
                                 FinancialManagementOfficer, 1
                                 OperationsAssistant
        April 1999                1 Urban Specialist, 1 Procurement
                                 Specialist, 1 Project Officer
     November 1999                1 UrbanSpecialist, 1 Project
                                 Officer, 1 Finan. Man. Consultant,
                                  1 OperationsAssistant
      February2000               UrbanSpecialist
    (LimitedMission)
       March2000                  2 UrbanSpecialist, 1
                                  InfrastructureSpecialist, 1
                                  Architect, 1 Finan. Man.
                                  Consultant

        June 2000         3       1 InfrastructureSpecialist, 1           S
                                  Finan. Man. Consultant, 1 Urban
                                  Specialist
                                                                     l__l

                                        26


GEORGIA: FIRSTMUNICIPALDEVELOPMENT AND
DECENTRALIZATION(CR 2976)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                     Appraisal         Actual or         Actual as % of
                                      estimate      current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                     26.1              23.5                 90%
Loan amount                            20.9              20.9                100%
Cofinancing
Cancellation
Institutionalperformance


ProjectDates
                                            Original                     Actual
Appraisal                                 04/28/1997                    0412811997
Boardapproval                             0711511997                    0711511997
Signing                                   0911511997                    0911511997
Effectiveness                             1211511997                    1211511997
Closing date                              1213112001                    1213112002




          Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate

                                         No. Staff weeks                 us$(~ooo)
IdentificationlPreparation                                                 59.2
AppraisaIINegotiation
Supervision                                                               509.1
ICR
Total                                                                     568.3

                                                 27                                      Annex A


Mission Data

Stage of Project Cycle          No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                               (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)

         MonthNear           Count                  Specialty              Implementation     Dev.
                                                                             Progress      Objective

IdentificationIPreparation

            02/15/97

AppraisallNegotiation

            05/25/97          5        1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1
                                       InstitutionalSpecialist; 1 Financial
                                      Analyst; 1TechnicalSpecialist
            06/20/97                   NegotiationsTeam
Supervision
          08/02/1997          3        1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1           S              S
                                       InstitutionalSpecialist; 1
                                       OperationsAssistant
          1011711997          6        1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1           S              S
                                       InstitutionalSpecialist; 2 Financial
                                      Analysts; 1 OperationsAssistant;
                                       1 Engineer
          02/26/1998          4        1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1           S              S
                                       InstitutionalSpecialist; 1 Financial
                                      Analyst; 1 Operations Assistant
          07/06/1998          5        2 Urban Management Specialist; 1          S              S
                                       FinancialAnalyst; 1 Institutional
                                       Specialist; 1 Operations Assistant
          11/17/1998          4        1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1           S              S
                                       Urban Planner; 1 Financial
                                      Analyst; 1 Operations Assistant
          04/29/1999          3        1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1           S              S
                                       OperationsAssistant; 1
                                       ProcurementSpecialist
          11/19/1999          6        1 Urban Management Specialist; 1          U              S
                                       Urban Sector Leader; 1 Financial
                                      Analyst; 1 ProcurementSpecialist;
                                      2 OperationsAssistant
         0311712000           4       2 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1            U              S
                                       FinancialSpecialist; 1 Engineer
         0611712000           3        1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1           S              S
                                      OperationsAssistant; 1 Financial
                                      Analyst
         0911512000           1        1 FinancialSpecialist                     S              S

         02/02/2001           2        1 Urban Management Specialist; 1          S              S
                                       FinancialAnalyst
          12/14/2001          3        1 Urban Management Specialist; 1          S              S
                                      OperationsAssistant; 1 Financial
                                      Analyst
         05/04/2001           3        1 Urban Management Specialist; 1          S              S
                                      OperationsAssistant; 1 Financial
                                      Analyst

                                           28


Stage of Project Cycle      No. of Persons and SDecialtv          I    Performance Rating
                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, ek.)
      MonthNear          Count               Specialty             lmplementation     Dev.
                                                                     Progress      Objective

       05104l2002                  1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1
                                  OperationsAssistant
        10112l2002                3 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1
                                   UrbanPlanner
        0312912003                 1 Urban ManagementSpecialist; 1
                                  Senior ProcurementSpecialist

                                                29


GEORGIA: SECOND MUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTAND
DECENTRALIZATION(CR3701)

                    ata(amountsin US$million)
                                                                                             ___I

                                             Appraisal         Actual or       Actual as % of
                                              estimate      current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                              30.9             39.9               129%
Loan amount                                     19.4             24.7               127%
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                      0.3



CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                                            FY03    FY04     FY05      FY06  FY07        FY08
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                    2.8     8.95    14.39     19.41 19.41       19.41

Actual (US$M)
Actual as % of appraisal                                                       --           -.__
Date of final disbursement:          July 12,2007


                                                                                           --
                                                    Original                   Actual

Appraisal                                          0411512002                 0411512002

Boardapproval                                      0810112002                 0810112002
Signing                                            1210312002                 1210312002
Effectiveness                                      0211912003                 0211912003

Closing date                                       0613012006                 1213012007

                                               30




                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of ProjectCycle         No. of staffweeks*        $ Thousands (includingtravel and
                                                                       consultantcosts)
Lending
               FY02                          28                            250.41
               FY03                           4                             46.70
                            Total:           32                            297.11
Supervision/ICR
               FY03                          14                             53.49
               FY04                          10                             60.61
               FY05                          34                             122.35
               FY06                          25                             103.79
II             FY07                          14                             43.80
               FY08               II         17            II               86.36                II
                            Total:/         114                            470.40

                                                    31


Annex B. List of PersonsMet

MunicipalDevelopmentFundof Georgia

Lasha Gotsiridze, Executive Director
Tel: +(995-32)-484-5 10   Mobile: +(995-99)-212-010; E-mail: laotsiridze@mdf.ora.ae

George Meskhishvili,Technical Dept.
Mobile: +(995-99)-57 1-580; E-mail: gmeskhishvili@mdf,orp.ae

Michael (Kakha) Ardia, Administrative Dept. Manager.
Tel: +(995-32)-943-240; Mobile: +(995-99)-540-025

Paata Iakobashvili, Heado f Technical Dept.
Tel: +(995-32)-943-240; Mobile: +(995-99)-150- 160; E-mail: pialobashvili@mdf.ora.ge

Shalva Kokochashvili, Heado f the Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation Division.
Mobile: +(995-99)-945-719; E-mail: skokochashvili@mdf.org.ge

Zviad Paichadze, HeadofFinance Division.
Mobile: +(995-99)-502-888

Maia Kikoshivili, Heado fProject Management.

MinistryofFinanceof Georgia

DavidKhosruashvili, Heado f Budget Dept.
Mobile: +(995-99)-28-86-26; E-mail: d.khosruasvili@mof.ae

The UrbanInstitute/USAID

BillKrause, UIChiefofParty.
Mobile: +(995-99)- 184-341;E-mail: bill@urban.ge

Khvicha Vashakmadze, Regional Coordinator Kutaisi.
Mobile: +(995-99)-228-289; E-mail:khvicha67@mail.ru

Maka Jeladze, Regional Coordinator Ambrolauri.
Mobile: +(995-99)-469-294; E-mail: maka.i@mail.ru

MillenniumChallengeGeorgia Fund

Lia Mamniashvili, DeputyChief Executive Officer.
Mobile: +(995-99)-774-010

The WorldBankOffice-Tbilisi

Roy Southworth, Country Manager.
Mobile: +(995-77)-787-825; E-mail: vsouthworth@worldbank.org

Tamara Sululkhia, Senior Infrastructure Specialist.
Mobile: +(995-99)-160-108; E-mail:tsulukhiaaworldbank.org.

                                                   32




MunicipalityofAmbrolauri

KakhaFarjanadze, Mayor

Bachuki Gabisiani, HeadofMunicipal Council.
Mobile: +(995-99)-962-341


MunicipalityofBatumi

Robert Chkhaidze, DeputyMayor.
Mobile: +(995-99)- 109-565; internet: www.batumi.gelen

Zauz Fatkadze, Advisor to Mayor

David Samniedze, Headof Finance Department


Municipalityof Poti

Gela Lagvilava, Vice Mayor.
Mobile: +(995-99)-777-766; E-mail: pela-lagvilava@rambler.ru

Vasilii Todua, Head ofFinance Department


Municipalityof Kutaisi

NikoKachkachishvili, Mayor.
Mobile: +(995-99)-722-7 13;E-mail: mavor.kutaisiO,imereti.&ze;

GeorgeShazabidze, HeadofFinance Department

IzakliBezedze, Headof Infrastructure Department

Tamazi Mazgvekashvili, DeputyChairman o f Municipal Council (Sakzebulo)

               40E                                                                      42E                                                                                                                                                  GEORGIA

           44N                                                                                                                                                                                                   MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                            44N                                                                    PROJECT CITIES
                               R U S S I A N                 F E D E R A T I O N                                                                                                POPULATION                                                                          MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,100,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) CENTERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                     GagraGagra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,408                                             AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) BOUNDARY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                    CITIES VISITED BY IEG MISSION                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                 A B K H A Z I A
                                                                                                                               MestiaMestia
                                     SuhumiSuhumi
                                                                                                                                                                                                  44E                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                      TkvarceliTkvarceli                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                   Ochamchira
                                                   Ochamchira                               DzvariDzvari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KazbegiKazbegi


                                                                                                                                                        AmbrolauriAmbrolauri
                                                                                ZugdidiZugdidi
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SouthSouth

                                                                                                                                                     ChiaturaChiatura                           Ossetia
                                                                                                                                                                                                Ossetia
                    Black                    Sea                                              SenakiSenaki                      KutaisiKutaisi                                    Chinvali
                                                                                                                                                                                  Chinvali
                                                              PotiPoti

                                                                                                           SamtrediaSamtredia
           42N                                                                                                                  ZestafoniZestafoni                                                                                             AkhmetaAkhmeta                                                                     42N
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GoriGori

                                                                                          OzurgetiOzurgeti                                                                     KhashuriKhashuri                                                                            Telavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           elavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LagodehiLagodehi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MtskhetaMtskheta
                                                              KobuletiKobuleti

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T'BLISIT'BLISI                              GurjaaniGurjaani

                                                         Batumi
                                                         Batumi                A D J A R A                                    AkhaltsikheAkhaltsikhe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RustaviRustavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MarneuliMarneuli

                                                                                                                                                                            AhalkalakiAhalkalaki                                                                                                   Tsiteli-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   siteli-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KazretiKazreti                                                                Tskaro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   skaro


                                                                                                                                                                                NinocmindaNinocminda


                                             T U R K E Y

                                                                                                                             GEORGIA                                                                                                                                                                                 Mingechevir
             0     20    40        60 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                         A R M E N I A                                                                                                Reservoir

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD
             0   10   20        30  40    50 Miles
APRIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A Z E R B A I J A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake                                                                                                 36096
     2008                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sevan
          40E                                                                  42E                                                                                                              44E                                                                                         46E

