CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 678 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Third Education Project)
0                                        between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 18, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1977, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President, (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) By agreements of even date herewith between the Associa-
tion and the Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and North West Frontier
Provinces of the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as Punjab,
Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP), Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP
have each agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of
carrying out the Project; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
agreements referred to in Recital (B) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Punjab" means the Province of the Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political subdivi-
sion of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a politi-
cal subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;


﻿-3 -
(e) "the Provinces" mean the Provinces referred to in para-
graphs (a) to (d) of this Section;
(f) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(g) "Sind Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Sind of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(h) "Baluchistan Project Agreement" means the agreement be-
tween the Association and Baluchistan of even date herewith as the
same may be amended from time to time:
(i) "NWFP Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NWFP of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(j) "the Provinces Project Agreements" mean the agreements
defined in paragraphs (f) to (i) of this Section and "the res-
pective Province Project Agreement" means in relation to any one
of the Provinces, any such agreement to which that Province is
a party;
(k) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit referred to in
Section 3.11 of this Agreement;


﻿-4-
(1) "Teacher Training Institutes" mean the Borrower's insti-
tutes for the training of primary and secondary school teachers;
(m) "Agricultural Training Institutes" mean the Borrower's
institutes for the training of agricultural and livestock field
assistants, and farmers;
(n) "Project Revolving Funds" mean the Project Revolving
Funds to be established by each of the Provinces pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 2.06 of the Provinces Project Agreements;
and
(o) "Rupees" and "RS" means rupees in the Borrower's
currency.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
*      expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, and civil works required for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-6-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1987 and ending
August 15, 2026, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on August 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Project Director referred to in Part 2(a)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and ef-
ficiency and in conformity with appropriate admintistrative, finan-
cial, education and engineering practices, and shall provide or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
and cause to be taken all action which shall be necessary on its
part to enable the Provinces to perform all their obligations
under the Provinces Project Agreements and shall not take or per-
mit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Provinces in carrying
out Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and C of the Project, the Borrower shall
make available to the Provinces, the proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated to them in Categories (1), (2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, under procedures, and terms and conditions,
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower and the Pro-
vinces in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or
cause to be employed, specialists as described in Part A of


﻿-8-
Schedule 5 to this Agreement whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be mutually satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules including proposed bid pack-
ages for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction


﻿-9-
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, prior to the
scheduled start of civil works under the Project, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction and operation of the facilities included in the Project,
including the sites which have been approved by the Association
for the institutes referred to in Parts A.1, B.1 and B.2 of the
Project, and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Association that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall establish or cause to
be established, in accordance with a time schedule to be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, in each of the institutes
referred to in Parts A.1, B.1 and B.2 of the Project, a tracer
system acceptable to the Association to collect information on (i)
the number of applicants, the number of students accepted and the
number of students enrolled at the beginning of each school year;
(ii) the number of graduates compared with the original intake;
and (iii) the number of graduates employed within six months, one
year and three years after graduation. The tracer system shall


﻿F,
-10-
include such other information as shall be agreed by the Borrower
and the Association to improve the efficiency of training programs
in the institutes referred to hereinabove.
(b) The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project
and for five years after its completion furnish, or cause to be
furnished, annually a summary of the information referred to in
(a) above to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its
agencies and subdivisions to take all action as shall be necessary
to ensure that within one year of the date of this Agreement or
such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree:
(i) at least nine months of full-time training in government
approved institutions shall be made a requirement for the issuance
of all teacher certificates, and (ii) at least one of the insti-
tutions referred to in Part A.1 of the Project shall establish an
alternate curriculum in which the students shall be given outside
teaching and study assignments to supplement the nine months
training referred to in sub-section (i) hereinabove.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its
agencies and subdivisions to take all action as shall be necessary
to ensure that (i) within six months of the date of this Agreement,
or such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree,
an advisory committee acceptable to the Association shall be estab-
lished at each Agricultural Training Institute, referred to in
Part B.1 of the Project; (ii) such advisory committees shall con-
sist of representatives of relevant government agencies including


﻿0                           -11 -
representatives of the research stations, universities and se-
lected farmers; and (iii) the aforesaid advisory committees shall
advise the Agricultural Training Institutes on academic improve-
ments, the relevance of courses to agricultural needs, and other
matte.s related to institutional development.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that the following
shall be acceptable to the Association: (i) the general programs
of the studies described in Parts A.2 and B.3 of the Project;
(ii) the terms of reference for such studies; and (iii) the
selection criteria and procedures for awards of fellowships referred
to in Part C of the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall establish, and maintain
until the completion of the Project, the Project Unit with such
powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities and resources as are
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall make the appointments of the Project
Unit staff as set forth in Part 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment in consultation with the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall cause each Province to appoint or
designate adequate and competent staff satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation to assist in implementing that part of the Project for
which the respective Province shall be responsible.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall within eighteen months of
the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower
40


﻿- 12 -
and the Association shall agree, submit to the Association the
studies referred to in Parts A.2 and B.3 of the Project.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause Sind: (i) to submit
within eighteen months of the date of this Agreement or such
other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, an
educational development plan for the years 1977-1987 for the
Sind Agricultural University acceptable to the Association; such
plan shall include specifications by department on enrollments
in relation to the manpower requirements of Sind, Baluchistan
and the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, staff requirements,
teaching programs, research and extension activities, and budget;
and (ii) to restrict enrollments at the Sind Agricultural Univer-
sity to a level acceptable to the Association, until the plan
referred to in sub-Section (i) hereinabove shall have been accepted
by the Association.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the departments and
agencies referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, in respect
to activities related to the Project, to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of the obligations of the Provinces under the Provinces Project
Agreements and shall promptly inform each other of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the per-
formance of the said obligations by the Provinces.


﻿- 14 -                                   s
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Province shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of such Province under the respective
Province Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that one or more of the Provinces shall be able
to perform its obligations under the respective Province Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in para-
graph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower.


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the execution and delivery of each of the Provinces
Project Agreements on behalf of the respective Province have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action; and
(b)  each Project Revolving Fund shall have been established
and the initial deposit in each such Fund specified in Section
2.06 of the Provinces Project Agreements shall have been made.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association, namely, that each of the Provinces Project
Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the respective Province, and is legally
binding upon such Province in accordance.with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 25, 1977 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-16 -                                     0
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad,
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Manfred G. Blobel
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  (a) Civil works          5,200,000            45%
(b)  Related pro-          400,000            45%
fessional ser-
vices
(2) Equipment and furni-      2,900,000            100% of foreign
ture                                          expenditures, or
100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory) for lo-
cally manufac-
tured items, or
85% of local ex-
penditures for
other locally
procured goods
(3) Technical Assistance:     2,000,000
(a) Specialists'                              100%
services


﻿-19-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b)  Overseas train-                         100% of foreign
ing                                     expenditures
(4) Assistance to the           200,000           100% of foreign
Project Unit and                             expenditures, or
staff referred to                            100% of local
in Sections 2.02                             expenditures
of the Provinces                             (ex-factory) for
Project Agreements                           locally manufac-
(equipment and                               tured items, or
furniture)                                   85% of local ex-
penditures for
other locally
procured goods
(5) Unallocated               4,300,000
TOTAL    15,000,000


﻿- 20-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect of Cate-
gory (1) (b) on account of expenditures for the financing of pro-


﻿-21-
fessional services incurred after May 31, 1976 in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $40,000; and
(b) in respect of all Categories except Category (1) (b) on
account of expenditures incurred for the financing of Part B.2 of
the Project unless and until the Association has been furnished
with an agreement or agreements acceptable to the Association for
the provision of specialist services to the Sind Agricultural
University included under Part A.3 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category except Category (3)
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all ex-
penditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent re-
quired to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿-22-
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable op-
inion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would other-
wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
S


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Basic Education
1.   Teacher Training Institutes
The expansion of primary and middle level education
through an increase in the number of qualified teachers
by:
(a) Construction, equipping and furnishing of the Teacher
Training Institutes at:
Moro (Sind) (for female students)
Larkana (Sind) (for female students)
Rawalpindi (Punjab) (for female students)
(b) Reconstruction, equipping and furnishing of the Teacher
Training Institutes at:
Karachi (Sind) (for female students)
Kamalia (Punjab) (for female students)


﻿- 24-
Pishin (Baluchistan) (for female students)
Mastung (Baluchistan) (for male students)
(c) Expansion, remodeling, equipping and furnishing
of the Teacher Training Institutes at:
Khairpur (Sind) (for female students)
Mithiani (Sind) (for male students)
Gakhar (Punjab) (for male students)
Lalamusa (Punjab) (for male students)
Multan (Punjab) (for female students)
Shahpur Sadar (Punjab) (for male students)
D.I. Khan (NWFP) (for male students)
D.I. Khan (NWFP) (for female students)
Jamrud (NWFP) (for male students)
Peshawar (NWFP) (for female students)
2.   Studies
The assistance to the preparation of future development
of the basic education sector by:


﻿-25 -
(a) Adult Functional Literacy Program to be carried out by
the Borrower, and to include: (i) the purchase of audio-
visual aids; (ii) the updating and revision of educa-
tional television programs; (iii) the financing of read-
ing materials and in-service training for the teachers
involved; and (iv) the evaluation of said program.
(b) Study of the projected Supply and Demand by Province
for Fe-ale Primary School Teachers between 1977 and
1987 to be carried out by the Borrower, along with
specific plans to overcome imbalances.
B.   Agricultural and Rural Education
1.   Agricultural Training Institutes
The increase in the number and the improvement in train-
ing of personnel for agricultural and rural development
by:
(a) Reconstruction, equipping and furnishing of the
Agricultural Training Institutes at:
Quetta (Baluchistan)
(b) Expansion, remodeling, equipping and furnishing of
the Agricultural Training Institutes at:
Sakrand (Sind)
Peshawar (NWFP)
0


﻿- 26 -
Rahim Yar Khan (runjab)
Sargodha (Punjab)
2.   Sind Agricultural University
The improvement in teaching and research at the Facul-
ties of Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering and
Animal Husbandry/Veterinary Medicine, and the estab-
lishment of a new Department of Agricultural Education,
Extension and Short Courses, through, inter alia:
(a) Expansion, remodelling, furnishing and equipping
the existing academic facilities.
(b)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of student
boarding facilities.
(c) Construction of staff housing.
3.   Studies
The assistance to the preparation of future development
of the agricultural education sector by:
(a) Study of training programs for Irrigation, Water
Management and Irrigated Agriculture Husbandry
to be carried out by the Borrower, and to include
the review of the existing curricula.


﻿-27 -
(b) Study of the projected Supply and Demand by
Province of Middle-level Manpower in agriculture
and related fields between 1977 and 1987 to be
carried out by the Borrower, and relating the pro-
jections with rural development programs along with
specific plans to overcome any imbalances.
C.   Overseas Fellowships
Overseas fellowships for staff of the institutes referred to
in Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, as further set forth in
Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
The location of the institutions included in Parts A.1 and B.1
of this Schedule shall be subject to modification by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   For bidding purposes, equipment and furniture shall be grouped
to the extent practicable in contracts with estimated values ex-
ceeding the equivalent of $50,000 each, in such a manner as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, so as to permit
bulk procurement.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures, following domestic
advertising acceptable to the Association; provided that bidders
for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with afore-
mentioned competitive bidding procedures.
2.   Equipment and furniture that cannot be grouped in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.2 hereinabove, may be awarded in


﻿-29 -
accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures,
following domestic advertising, acceptable to the Association.
3.   Books may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's book
procurement procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Contracts for certain miscellaneous equipment and furniture
with values not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 for each con-
tract, may be purchased through normal commercial channels, pro-
vided that the aggregate expenditure for items so purchased shall
not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 30 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Pakis-
tan if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿-31 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group.C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification.
With respect to contracts for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or


﻿- 32-
modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of bidding documents and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
(a)  (i) With respect to contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, before
bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, site layouts and
sketch plans, the text of the invitations to bid
and other bidding documents, together with a des-
cription of the proposed advertising procedures and
schedule to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders;
and
(ii) With respect to any equipment and furniture item
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more
in aggregate or any item with unit prices exceeding
the equivalent of $1,000, before bids are invited,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the master equipment list, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents together with a descrip-
tion of the proposed advertising procedures and


﻿-33 -
schedule to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 34-
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿-35 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit shall be responsible for the implementation
of the parts of the Project to be carried out by the Borrower and
the proper coordination among the staff of Provinces appointed or
designated to assist in the implementation of the Project. Its
functions shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a) Directing the aspects of the Project related to two or
more Provinces.
(b) Coordinating the activities of all agencies involved in
the execution of the Project and liaison with the Association.
(c) Coordinating programming and preparing Project imple-
mentation and disbursement schedules covering all aspects of the
Project.
(d) Recruitment and briefing of all Project specialists;
administration of specialists; administration of specialists'
agreements; administration of fellowship agreements.
(e) coordination of technical assistance programs; and pre-
paration of terms of reference for Project studies and technical
assistance related to two or more Provinces.


﻿- 36                                     0
(f) Monitoring performance of specialists and consultants in
all Project items.
(g) Organizing and supervising specialists responsible for
preparation of educational programs and preparing equipment and
materials master lists related to two or more Provinces.
(h) Organizing all procurement under procedures described
in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, based on procurement
lists approved and reviewed by the appropriate authorities; and
organizing procurement under procedures described in Part B of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement related to two or more Provinces.
(i) Providing or arranging provision of all information re-
quired for the proper implementation of the Project by specialists
conducting work related to two or more Provinces.
(j) Ensuring proper keeping of Project accounts and finan-
cial provisions for all Project items; processing all Project ex-
penditures related to two or more Provinces and preparing appli-
cations for withdrawal from the Credit Account; and assisting the
Borrower in the implementation of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(k) Monitoring over-all Project implementation.
(1) Preparing periodic reports for the Borrower and the
Association, including tracer system monitoring indicators.


﻿-37 -
2.   The Project Unit shall retain at least the following staff
on a full-time basis:
(a) A Project Director, a Project Architect, a Procurement
Officer and a Project Accountant.
(b) Adequate supporting staff.


﻿-38-
SCHEDULE 5
Specialists' Services and Overseas Fellowships
A.   Specialists' Services
1.   About three man-years of specialists' services on equip-
ment and training methods for Part A.1 of the Project.
2.   About four man-years of specialist services on organiza-
tion and course development for Part B.1 of the Project.
3.   About thirteen man-years of specialist services for cur-
riculum development and university management for Part
B.2 of the Project.
4.   About five man-years of specialist services for Part
B.3(a) of the Project.
5.   About three man-years of specialists' services on
preparation of studies on manpower requirements includ-
ing those for Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project.
B.   Overseas Fellowships
1.   About three man-years of fellowships for administrators
or heads of instructional staff to study similar opera-
tions abroad for Part B.1 of the Project.
2.   About fifty-seven man-years of fellowships for advanced
studies abroad for Part B.2 of the Project.


