CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 678 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Third Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
Dated February 18, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE, acting by its Governor (herein-
after called NWFP).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that NWFP agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS NWFP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the De-
velopment Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿0
-3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NWFP shall carry out and shall cause to be
carried out that part of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement for which NWFP or any of its
agencies shall be responsible with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, NWFP shall allocate annually
to the institutes located in NWFP referred to in Parts A.1(c) and
B.1(b) of the Project, funds sufficient for the maintenance of
such institutes.
Section 2.02. NWFP shall appoint or designate adequate and
competent staff satisfactory to the Association to assist in
implementing that part of the Project for which NWFP shall be re-
sponsible.
Section 2.03. NWFP shall take, or cause to be taken, all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire, prior to the scheduled
start of civil works under the Project, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project, including


﻿-4-
the sites for the institutes located in NWFP referred to in Parts
A.1 and B.1 of the Project which have been approved by the Asso-
ciation, and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes re-
lated to the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) NWFP undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by NWFP to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NWFP
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) NWFP shall furnish to the Association
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules,


﻿-5-
including proposed bid packages, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) NWFP: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of this Agreement,
with respect to the institutes located in NWFP referred to in
Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project, NWFP shall establish or cause
to be established special revolving funds (hereinafter called the
NWFP Project Revolving Funds) to be administered by the staff
referred to in Section 2.02 hereinabove. In the event one such
NWFP Project Revolving Fund is established, it is to be used ex-
clusively to make payments for the cost of goods and services re-
quired on the part of NWFP to carry out Parts A.1 and B.1 of the
Project; in the event two such NWFP Project Revolving Funds are
established, each is to be used exclusively to make payments for
the cost of goods and services required on the part of NWFP to


﻿-6-
carry out Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project, respectively. NWFP
shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the NWFP Project Revolv-
ing Fund or in each such Funds amounts as shall be, from time to
time, required on the part of NWFP to permit the payments hereto-
fore specified to be made, promptly as needed, out of the NWFP
Project Revolving Fund or Funds. NWFP shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations
and financial condition of the NWFP Project Revolving Fund or of
each of such Funds.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, NWFP shall make or cause to be
made an initial deposit in the NWFP Project Revolving Fund or in
each of such Funds in an amount of one hundred thousand Rupees
(Rs.100,000) and thereafter shall on a quarterly basis make or
cause to be made such deposits in the NWFP Project Revolving Fund
or in each of such Funds as are required so that on the first day
of each calendar quarter there shall be available in such Fund or
Funds amounts sufficient to meet payments for the cost of the
Project required on the part of NWFP to cover the forthcoming
three months of such costs as estimated on the basis of the work
schedules relating thereto.
Section 2.07. (a) NWFP shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the prog-
ress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-7-
(b) NWFP shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the prog-
ress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by NWFP of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿-8                                     0
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. NWFP shall maintain, or cause its agencies to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition in respect of activities related to the
Project.
Section 3.02. NWFP shall at all times cause the facilities
and equipment required for that portion of the Project located in
NWFP to be operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance
with appropriate educational and management practices.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NWFP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii)
of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NWFP of
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
0


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the North West Frontier Province:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier
Province
Peshawar
Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Peshawar


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be taken or executed by Additional
Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. NWFP shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of NWFP,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be taken or executed by NWFP pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Manfred G. Blobel
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
By Is/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 678 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Third Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
Dated February 18, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the PROVINCE OF SIND, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Sind).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Sind agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Sind, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
Def init ions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
0


﻿-3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Sind shall carry out and shall cause to be
carried out that part of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement for which Sind or any of its
agencies shall be responsible with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, Sind shall allocate annually:
(i) to the institutes located in Sind referred to in
Parts A.1(a), A.1(b), B.2(b) and B.2(c) of the
Project, funds for maintenance of such institutes,
such funds to be allocated on a graduated scale
rising from an allocation of not less than one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of the cost of the
construction and reconstruction, of the aforesaid
institutes facilities included in the Project,
one year after completion of such construction
and reconstruction, respectively, to not less
than two per cent (2%) of such costs in the fifth
year after such completion; and


﻿-4-
(ii)  to the institutes located in Sind referred to
in Parts A.1(c), B.1(b) and B.2(a) of the Project,
funds sufficient for the maintenance of such
institutes.
Section 2.02. Sind shall appoint or designate adequate and
competent staff satisfactory to the Association to assist in im-
plementing that part of the Project for which Sind shall be
responsible.
Section 2.03. Sind shall take, or cause to be taken, all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire, prior to the scheduled
start of civil works under the Project, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project, including
the sites for the institutes located in Sind referred to in Parts
A.1, B.1 and B.2 of the Project which have been approved by the
Association, and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Sind undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transport-
ation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by Sind to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Sind
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Sind shall furnish to the Association
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules, including proposed bid packages, for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Sind: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 6 - 6
Section 2.06. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of this Agreement,
with respect to the institutes located in Sind referred to in
Parts A.1, B.1 and B.2 of the Project, Sind shall establish or
cause to be established special revolving funds (hereinafter
called the Sind Project Revolving Funds) to be administered by
the staff referred to in Section 2.02 hereinabove. In the event
one such Sind Project Revolving Fund is established, it is to be
used exclusively to make payments for the cost of goods and ser-
vices required on the part of Sind to carry out Parts A.1, B.1
and B.2 of the Project; in the event two such Sind Project
Revolving Funds are established, one Fund is to be used exclusive-
ly to make said payments required to carry out Parts A.1 and B.1
of the Project, and the other is to be used to carry out Part B.2
of the Project. Sind shall deposit or cause to be deposited in
the Sind Project Revolving Fund or in each of such Funds amounts
as shall be, from time to time, required on the part of Sind -.o
permit the payments heretofore specified to be made, promptly as
needed, out of the Sind Project Revolving Fund or Funds. Sind
shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to re-
flect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices, the operations and financial condition of the Sind
Project Revolving Fund or each of such Funds.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, Sind shall make or cause to be made
an initial deposit in the Sind Project Revolving Fund or in each of
such Funds in an amount of one hundred thousand Rupees (Rs.100,000)
and thereafter shall on a quarterly basis make or cause to be made
such deposits in the Sind Project Revolving Fund or in each of such


﻿()                                  -7-
Funds as are required so that on the first day of each calendar
quarter there shall be available in such Fund or Funds amounts suf-
ficient to meet payments for the cost of the Project required on
the part of Sind to cover the forthcoming three months of such costs
as estimated on the basis of the work schedules relating thereto.
Section 2.07. (a) Sind shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Sind shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
* of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by Sind of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Sind shall: (i) submit within eighteen months
of the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree, an educational development plan
for the years 1977-1987 for the Sind Agricultural University
acceptable to the Association; such plan shall include specifica-
tions by Department or enrollments in relation to the manpower re-
quirements of Sind, Baluchistan and the territory of Azad Jammu
and Kashmir, staff requirements, teaching programs, research and
extension activities, and budget; and (ii) to restrict enrollments
at the Sind Agricultural University to a level mutually acceptable
to the Association and Sind, until the plan referred to in sub-
Section (i) hereinabove shall have been accepted by the Associa-
tion.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Sind shall maintain or cause its agencies to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition in respect of activities related to the
Project.
Section 3.02. Sind shall at all times cause the facilities
and equipment required for that portion of the Project located in
Sind to be operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accord-
ance with appropriate educational and management practices.
swami0


﻿)                                   -9 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Sind thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Sind of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 10-                                   S
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have de-
signated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Province of Sind:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Sind may be taken or executed by its
Additional Chief Secretary (Development) or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Sind shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Sind, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by Sind pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
* counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
ANI


﻿- 12-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Manfred G. Blobel
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF SIND
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


