Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 12611
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA: TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2758-UNI)
AND
NIGERIA: TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
(LOAN 3011-UNI)
DECEMBER 16, 1993
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = naira (N)
Period Average Exchange Rates
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991    1992
Naira per $   0.76   0.89   1.75  4.02   4.55   7.35   8.06   9.90    17.50
$ per Naira   1.31   1.12  0.57   0.25  0.22   0.14  0.12   0.101   0.057
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBN     -  Central Bank of Nigeria
DDS    -  Duty Drawback Scheme
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
IDA     -  International Development Association
IDCC    -  Industrial Development Coordinating Committee
IDMC   -  Interdepartmental Import Duty Monitoring Committee
IFEM    -  Interbank Foreign Exchange Market
IMF     -  International Monetary Fund
NEPC   -  Nigerian Export Promotion Council
NEPD   -  Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree
NNPC   -  Nigeria National Petroleum Company
OECF   -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PCR     -  Project Completion Report
PIP     -  Public Investment Program
SAP     -  Structural Adjustment Program
SFEM    -  Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market
SOE     -  Statement of Expenditure
TPED    -  Trade Policy and Export Development Loan
TIPL    -  Trade and Investment Policy Loan
TRB      -  Tariff Review Board
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Oflice of Director-General
Operations Evaluatlon                                      December 16, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESTDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria -
Trade Policy and Export Development Loan (Loan 2758-UNI)
and Trade and Investment Policy Loan (Loan 3011 - UNI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nigeria-Trade Policy and Export Development
Loan, TPED (Loan 2758-UNI) and Trade and Investment Policy Loan, TIPL (Loan 3011-UNI),
comprised of Parts I & HI prepared by the Africa Regional Office and of Part II prepared by the
borrower.
The broad objective of the program was to support the Nigerian Government in its effort to reform
trade and export policies within the framework of the Structural Adjustment Program adopted in 1986.
Specific policy reforms supported by TPED were (i) introduction of a market-determined exchange rate
system, (ii) elimination of trade restrictions and price controls and (iii) implementation of export
incentives. The TIPL was to consolidate the exchange rate system and trade initiatives supported by
TPED and to rationalize the capital budgeting process and the public investment program.
T1he objectives of the program were partially achieved. A market determined exchange-rate system
was introduced and important reforms in reducing trade restrictions, price controls and implementation
of export incentives were undertaken. However, the foreign exchange market remains distorted by
periodic government interventions, some actions on tariffs rates were subsequently reversed and several
of the institutional reforms supported by TPED were ineffective. Rationalization of public investment was
not uniformly successful.
Overall, the TPED outcome is rated as satisfactory while the TIPL outcome is rated as marginally
unsatisfactory. The sustainability of both TPED and TIPL is rated as uncertain. The institutional impact
of TPED is rated as substantial and that of TIPL as negligible.
The PCR is adequate. It highlights the political difficulty of implementing and sustaining difficult
adjustment measures, institutional deficiencies and instability in the macroeconomic framework.
An audit is planned. Attention will be given to the Bank's identification, appraisal and supervision
performance.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their omclal duties. Its contents
may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CONIPLMTION REPORT
NIGERIA: TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2758-UNI)
AND
NIGERIA: TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
(LOAN 3011-UNI)
CONTENTS
Page Nob.
PREFACE  ................................................    i
EVALUATION SUMMARY . ....................................... iii
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW  FROM IBRD'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                        ............ 1
1.  INTRODUCTION   ................1................... 
A. Country Context . ..................................  1
B. Oil Boom and Bust .      .................................  1
C. Structural Adjustment Program  ........         ..................  2
2. LOAN BACKGROUND .                                 .                          2
A. Trade Policy and Export Development Loan.                                2
B. Trade and Investment Policy Loan.                                        3
3. LOAN DESIGN AND POLICY REFORMS .                           .                 3
A. Design of TPED and TIPL.                                                 3
B. Implementation.                                                          4
4. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT                             .         .     10
A. Agriculture .11
B. Manufacturing .11
C. Social Impact .12
5. LOAN IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION  . .12
A. Role of the Bank .12
B. Credit Monitoring and Administration .12
C. Bank Performance .14
D. Borrower Performance .15
6.  ASSESSMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  ........                      ..........  15
A. Political Will and Ownership ........         ..................  15
B. Institutional Capacity .   ...............................   16
C. Ownership of Macroeconomic Policy Reforms  .....           ..........  16
D. Prioritization of Policy Reforms .......        .................  17
PART II:    PROGRAM  REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...  18
PART I:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .........                    ................  25
A. TPED  ......           ..............................   25
B. TIPL ..... 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA: TRADE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN (LOAN 2758-UNI)
AND
NIGERIA: TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN (LOAN 3011-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Trade Policy and Export
Development Loan (TPED) Loan 2758-UNI and the Trade and Investment Policy Loan (TIPL)
Loan 301 1-UNI to Nigeria. TPED was approved on October 16, 1986 in an amount equivalent
to US$452 million. It closed on December 31, 1991, four years behind schedule. TIPL was
approved on December 22, 1988 in an amount equivalent to US$500 million. It closed on
December 31, 1990, nine months behind schedule.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by the Country
Operations Division (AF4CO) of the Africa Regional Office . Its preparation was started during
the Bank's final supervision mission of the project in April 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the
President's Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, Supervision Reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
On February 14, 1992, AF4CO requested the Borrower in a letter addressed to the
Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, to prepare Part II of the PCR.
Simultaneously, AF4CO revised Parts I and III after TPED closed in 1991. The following
presents the final version of Parts I and III of the PCR for TPED and TIPL, prepared by the
Region and Part II prepared by the borrower.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA: TRADE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN (LOAN 2758-UNt)
AND
NIGERIA: TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN (LOAN 3011-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Trade Policy and Export Development Loan (TPED) and the Trade and Investment
Policy Loan (TIPL) supported the Nigerian Government's Structural Adjustment Program (SAP),
which was adopted in 1986. The loans provided a vehicle for the dialogue between the Bank and
Nigeria on macroeconomic policy issues during the period 1986 to 1990. The focus of the
dialogue during the previous five years had been on the need for the development and adoption
of a comprehensive structural adjustment program.  These loans shifted the focus to the
implementation of adjustment policies. They also provided the context for the Bank's dialogue
with Nigeria's creditors.
Objectives
2.    The purpose of TPED was to support SAP through: (i) the introduction of a market-
determined exchange rate system; (ii) the elimination of trade restrictions and price controls; and
(iii) the implementation of a package of export incentives. TIPL was designed to support the
consolidation of the exchange rate and trade policy initiatives that were supported by TPED, and
address the underlying determinants of investment decision-making. The policy agenda for TIPL
covered: (i) maintenance of a market-determined exchange rate system; (ii) consolidation of the
reform of the protection regime and institutional developments; (iii) implementation of export
promotion measures; and (iv) rationalization of the capital budgeting process and the public
investment program.
Implementation Experience
3.    The implementation of the TPED and TIPL policy reform programs was more effective
during some stages than in others. The Government was successful in implementing many
politically controversial reforms, particularly in the early stages of the adjustment program.
These included devaluation of the naira, abolition of the import licensing system, and the
dismantling of the commodity boards. These measures removed important sources of rent
seeking in the economy and challenged vested interests. Even so, they proved to be sustainable
and important for the economy's growth performance.
4.    However, not all undertakings provided under TPED and TIPL were successfully
implemented. Some actions on tariff rates were subsequently reversed, and on steel the promised
actions simply were not taken. These largely sectoral undertakings were less under the control
of the central ministries and the CBN. The shortfalls reflected inadequate ownership in the
relevant sectoral ministries. In other areas, such as the DDS and facilitating private investment,
the problem was due to weak implementing institutions.
5.    Toward the end of the loan period, the political program of returning to civil rule began
to take center stage and increasingly clashed with the fiscal discipline needed for the economic
reform program. Implementation was further complicated by the shortlived recovery of oil
revenues during the Gulf crisis, which led to the abandonment of fiscal discipline.



- iv -
Results of TPED and TIPL
6.     The SAP was successful in generating real GDP growth averaging 5 percent per year
from 1986 to 1992. This represents a large turnaround from the decline in real GDP averaging
2 percent per year from 1980 to 1986. It compares favorably to the TPED and TIPL forecast
of 4 percent annual growth during the program period. Although many of the TPED and TIPL
conditions were not met, and the implementation of exchange rate policy was not smooth and
often lagged behind market developments, a real exchange rate depreciation of 78 percent was
sustained between mid-1986 and end-1992. This dramatically changed incentives facing the real
economy.
7.     Notwithstanding the major turnaround in growth performance, non-oil exports did not
meet program expectations. The TPED/TIPL target for non-oil exports was set at US$1 billion,
in anticipation of export diversification and decreased reliance on oil exports. Official export
statistics suggest a large shortfall from  that standard.  However, substantial exports to
neighboring countries continue to be reported in the press of those countries. There was large
import substitution over the period, particularly for consumer goods. Imports averaged US$6.8
billion per yer in the 1986-92 period, compared with US$12.8 billion per year in the 1980-85
period.
8.    During the TPED  and TIPL disbursement periods from  end-1986 to mid-1990,
merchandise imports totalled about US$23.5 billion, of which TPED and TIPL financing and
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) cofinancing financed US$1.3 billion. Through
debt rescheduling, Nigeria deferred debt service totalling US$25.9 billion over the 1986-1990
period. It nevertheless paid out some US$8.8 billion in debt service over the period. Without
TPED and TIPC (and the IMF standby arrangement), the debt reschedulings would not have been
forthcoming. Larger debt service payments and arrears would have resulted.
Assessment and Lessons Learned
9.    The performance of TPED and TIPL was mixed owing to several factors: (i) the political
difficulty of implementing and sustaining difficult sectoral adjustment measures; (ii) the lack of
sufficient institutional capacity to implement some of the reforms; and (iii) instability in the
underlying macroeconomic framework. But despite these difficulties, the real economy responded
well-pointing to the significance of the reforms that were indeed implemented. More recently,
the macroeconomic situation has deteriorated sharply and inflation has accelerated. Increased
uncertainty and difficulties in the foreign exchange market threaten to undermine the gains from
the SAP.
A.    Political Will and Ownership
10.   Nigeria was successful in implementing important adjustment measures that were
politically sensitive. But the gains made under the SAP diminished somewhat as vested interests
lobbied for-and won-reversals on public expenditures, especially for steel, and individual trade
policy and import duty issues. Clearly, the sustainability of the reforms requires domestic
ownership, not only by political leaders but also those responsible to the particular policy areas
and those who bear the cost of adjustment.
11.   Lessons Learned. In analyzing the costs and benefits of alternative policy options the
Bank should also consider their distributional impact. Indeed, the TPED/TIPL experience
demonstrates that a commitment to addressing difficult policy issues that challenge important



special interests needs to precede Bank support for them. In retrospect, it is clear that the Bank
should have considered more carefully the risks associated with weak political support for some
of TPED's and TIPL's more controversial components, such as restructured public expenditures
for steel and tariff reform. Once non-compliance with the agreed spending cap for steel was
apparent, the Bank was correct to rethink the design of the follow-up operation that was under
preparation (and to shelve it when the macroeconomic environment changed so radically).
B.    Institutional Capacity
12.   Institutional capacity was found to be an important determinant of implementation
success. The SFEM was successfully implemented because-in addition to enjoying high-level
support-it was administered through the CBN and scarce managerial talent was deployed to
implement it. In contrast, the DDS was not implemented successfully in part because its design
was too complex, having been based on a prototype developed for Korea's greater institutional
capacity. The NEPC was not successful in part because it lacked high-level support; but it also
lacked the necessary institutional capacity to take the lead within the Government on the key
issues.  The supervision strategy followed for TIPL's institution-building components was
appropriate, in which priorities were set according to the strength and commitment of the local
implementing agency.
13.    Lessons Learned. Implementation plans need to be designed to reflect the capacity and
potential of the implementing agencies. Overly ambitious institutional designs lead to frustration
and paralysis. The Bank's supervision strategy for institution-building components needs to be
flexible, adaptive, and opportunistic in the face of changing institutional commitment and
personnel.
C.    Ownership of Macroeconomic Policy Reforms
14.    For Nigeria, the management of oil revenues is essential, given the volatility in the oil
market and the extent to which the prominence of oil in the economy translates that volatility into
macroeconomic disequilibria. The SAP was adopted in the wake of a severe downturn in the oil
market, which had negative consequences for the economy. The downturn made the SAP all the
more necessary, but it also made the timing of the SAP inauspicious from a political-economy
perspective. Indeed, purchasing power and household incomes dropped after the program was
introduced, but because of the deterioration in the oil market. Even so, Nigerians continue to
attribute the negative impact on the economy of the deterioration in the oil market to the SAP;
this undermined political support for the program. At issue is whether it is better for adjustment
to moderate a decline that is occurring, as was true in Nigeria, or to wait for the economy to
bottom out before initiating adjustment.
15.    Lessons Learned. Timing is critical. If adjustment is undertaken when an economy is
still declining in response to a negative exogenous shock, widespread ownership of the program-
grounded in a full understanding of the consequences of inaction-is essential if the public is to
disentangle the negative effects of the shock from the ameliorative effects of the program, and
persevere in its support for the program. As a general rule, in gauging the likelihood of program
success and sustainability, the Bank needs to evaluate the degree of understanding of the program
and its likely consequences. This rule is particularly important when the adjustment actions are
being taken early in the cycle, when conditions are likely to get worse before they get better.



- vi -
D.    Prioritization of Policy Reforms
16.    As noted earlier, considerable slippage notwithstanding, overall growth performance was
good. This reflects the fact that the key distortions associated with the pricing and availability
of foreign exchange in the economy were considerably reduced by the program. These reforms
were essential for improving the incentive framework for the agricultural and manufacturing
sectors.
17.    Lessons Learned. Prioritization-and focus on a few key policy reforms-both conserves
scarce implementation capacity-and if the reforms are chosen smartly-yields results. While
many of TPED's and TIPL's trade policy reforms were not successfully implemented, the overall
results of the program for the real economy suggest that these were less important than the
underlying exchange rate and import licensing reforms. Hence the Bank's focus in the dialogue
on preserving the conditions necessary to sustain the exchange rate reform-and its giving second
place to the import prohibitions and tariff rates was appropriate. The central challenge now is
to bring the macroeconomic situation back under control, as a necessary step in restoring the
integrity of the exchange rate reform.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA: TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2758-UNI)
AND
NIGERIA: TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
(LOAN 3011-UNI)
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM IBRD'S PERSPECTIVE
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Trade Policy and Export Development Loan (TPED) and the Trade and Investment Policy
Loan (TIPL) supported the Nigerian Government's Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), which was
adopted in 1986. The loans provided a vehicle for the dialogue between the Bank and Nigeria on
macroeconomic policy issues during the period 1986 to 1990. The focus of the dialogue during the
previous five years had been on the need for the development and adoption of a comprehensive structural
adjustment program. These loans shifted the focus to the implementation of adjustment policies. They
also provided the context for the Bank's dialogue with Nigeria's creditors.
A.    Country Context
2.    Nigeria is the largest country in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has a wealth of natural resources,
including major oil and gas deposits, a vibrant private sector, and a large labor force and domestic market
that endow it with considerable economic potential. The oil sector dominates the economy and accounts
for 25 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), 95 percent of export revenues, and 80 percent of
federally collected revenues.  Nevertheless, per capita income is only US$340; this represents a
considerable decline from US$1,000 in 1980. Nigeria's social indicators are low, placing it among the
20 poorest countries worldwide.
B.    Oil Boom and Bust
3.    The oil boom of the 1970s financed very large increases in public investment. These were
designed to enhance the economy's productive capacity and human capital, and heal the wounds of the
Civil War that had ravaged the country in the late 1960s. Federal expenditures doubled between 1973
and 1974 and again from 1974 to 1975. Total investment as a share of GDP increased from less than
12 percent in 1971 to more than 25 percent in 1977, largely owing to increases in public investment.
But many of the investments were undertaken without requisite attention to their economic viability.
Moreover, the rapid growth of the public sector raised relative prices for nontradables and undermined
the country's non-oil export base. When the oil market weakened in the early 1980s, Government
expenditures continued, financed by the accumulation of debt and arrears, and by the depletion of
international reserves. As the situation worsened, the government imposed fiscal austerity characterized
by across-the-board budgetary cuts, administrative restrictions on imports, and rationing of foreign
exchange. The austerity measures reduced the fiscal and external deficits but failed to address the
economy's structural weaknesses.



C.    Structural Adjustment Program
4,    It was in this context of weakened oil markets, shifting terms of trade, and real income
tluctuations that the SAP was initiated. When the Babangida Government came to power, it declared its
ntention to move from 'austerity aJone to austerity with structural adjustment." Adding urgency to the
need for adjustment was a further collapse in oil prices in 1986. By then the terms of trade had fallen
to oniv 35 percent of their 1980 level. In 1986, the Government adopted a far-reaching reform program.
The SAP combined exchange rate and trade policy reforms aimed at revitalizing the non-oil economy with
stabilization policies designed to restore balance of payments equilibrium and price stability. The SAP
emphasized downsizing the public sector and improving the efficiency of public asset management.
Import licenses, price controls, and the agricultural marketing boards were to be eliminated.
2. LOAN BACKGROUND
5.     As early as 1983, a possible adjustment program to be supported by the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) had been discussed. At that time the Nigerian economy faced two
critical issues: (i) management of the short-run financial crisis that had been precipitated by the downturn
in world oil markets; and (ii) longer-term structural adjustment of the economy to lessen dependence on
oil and to develop a wider productive base. The discussions did not proceed owing to unresolved issues
pertaining to devaluation of the naira, trade liberalization, and the petroleum subsidy. In August 1985,
President Babangida put the question of accepting an IMF loan-which had deadlocked rescheduling
negotiations with Nigeria's creditors-to a national debate. The proposal was rejected. However, in
1986, retlecting the further collapse in oil export revenue, Nigeria would have had to pay almost 70 to
80 percent of its export earnings to service its debt in the absence of rescheduling. These developments
increased the urgency of a rescheduling and an agreement with (if not an actual loan from) the IMF.
A.    Trade Policy and Export Development Loan
6.     TPED grew out of discussions in April 1986 between high-level Government officials and Bank
senior management on the policy measures needed to stabilize the economy and return it to a growth path.
A staff appraisal mission visited Nigeria in May 1986 to work with the Government on the detailed design
of a quick-disbursing operation that would support the SAP.  TPED was also to be a catalyst in
mobilizing external resources (both debt rescheduling and new money). Within the SAP framework,
TPED focused on exchange rate and trade policy reform. The loan was appraised in May 1986 in Lagos,
followed by formal negotiations in August 1986 in Washington. TPED was approved by the Executive
Directors on October 16, 1986 and became effective on November 20, 1986.
7.     These activities paralleled the negotiations of a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. It was
approved in principle in December 1986 and then fully in January 1987 once the "critical mass" of
commercial banks had signed off on the rescheduling and the new money package that had been agreed
to in principle prior to TPED effectiveness. Nigeria made clear from the outset that it would not draw
on the stand-by arrangement, in deference to the outcome of the domestic national debate.
B.    Trade and Investment Policy Loan
8.     Preparations for TIPL began almost immediately after TPED was approved by the Board. The
thrust of TIPL was to reinforce the goals of the SAP, including the exchange rate and trade reform
components of TPED, while broadening it to include private investment policies. As the loan concept



developed, an economic mission uncovered major problems with Nigeria's public investment program.
TIPL was thus expanded to focus on the policy framework for public as well as private investment. The
preparation process was assisted by discussion papers prepared by the Bank and Government working
groups on the following issues: (i) Federal Capital Budgeting and Public Investment; (ii) Tariffs and
fmport Prohibitions; and (iii) Private Investment Policy. TIPL's appraisal started in Lagos in July 1987
and concluded at technical discussions in February 1988.  Negotiations were held in Lagos and
Washington spanning the six-month period May to November 1988. The loan's long gestation period
was due in part to its many politically sensitive areas and the challenges of institution building. More
fundamentally, the lengthy appraisal and negotiation process reflected expansionary monetary and fiscal
policies pursued in late 1987 and early 1988 and their impact on exchange rate policy and
implementation. During this period, TIPL was adapted to focus also on the fiscal policy agenda. Full
agreement on the macroeconomic program was reached in early December 1988. As with TPED,
preparation of TIPL paralleled the negotiations of a stand-by arrangement with the IMF which was
approved in February 1989.
3. LOAN DESIGN AND POLICY REFORMS
A.    Design of TPED and TPIL
1.    TPED
9.     The objective of TPED was to support the Government's efforts to reform trade and export
policies. Specific policy measures undertaken under the loan were (i) the introduction of a market-
determined exchange rate system; (ii) elimination of trade restrictions and price controls; and
(iii) implementation of a package of export incentives. The loan provided US$450 million equivalent to
tinance general imports of goods and US$2 million equivalent to finance technical assistance and training
for export development and studies of the steel subsector and petrochemicals. Conditions of effectiveness
were:
*     satisfactory assurances that the external financing needs for the remainder of 1986
and 1987 would be met;
*     issuance of the enabling decree and guidelines for the operation of the second-tier
foreign exchange market (SFEM);
*     the necessary steps to (i) eliminate import licensing requirements to permit free
access to the second-tier market; (ii) eliminate ex-factory price controls and lift a
substantial number of import prohibitions; (iii) remove 30 percent import surcharges,
export duties, export prohibitions, and export licensing requirements and (iv) establish
the SAP Monitoring Unit.
Conditions of release of second tranche were:
*     adequate funding of SFEM; and
*     satisfactory progress in implementing agreed actions for trade and export policy reforms.



-4 -
2.    TIPL
10.   TIPL supported the consolidation of the exchange rate and trade policy initiatives that were
pursued under TPED. Recognizing that it is largely through investment that structural adjustment takes
place, TIPL expanded the direction of the Bank's support by addressing the underlying determinants of
investment decision-making. The policy agenda covered five broad areas: (i) maintenance of a market-
determined exchange rate system; (ii) consolidation of the reform  of the protection regime and
institutional developments; (iii) implementation of export promotion measures; (iv) liberalization of the
regulatory framework for private investment; and (v) rationalization of the capital budgeting process and
the public investment program. Conditions of effectiveness were:
*     establishment of (i) the Tariff Review Board (TRB); (ii) the Industrial Development
Coordinating Committee (IDCC); and (iii) secretariats to serve the TRB, the Import Duty
Monitoring Committee (IDMC), and the Industrial Development Coordinating Committee
(IDCC);
*     issuance of a Statement of Industrial Policy and guidelines for the preparation of
the federal capital budget; and
*     amendment of the Nigerian Enterprise Promotion Decree (NEPD).
Conditions of second tranche release were:
*     satisfactory assurances that the Borrower had made adequate provisions to meet
its external financing needs for 1989;
*     satisfactory funding and operation of the foreign exchange market;
*     satisfactory progress in carrying out the agreed federal budget and public investment
program;
*     adoption of a viable restructuring and development program for the steel subsector; and
*     amendment of the Customs, Excise, Tariff, etc. (Consolidation) decree in a manner
consistent with the Prograrn.
B.    Implementation
I.    TPED
(a) Exchange Rate Reform
11.   Exchange rate realignment through the establishment of an auction-based SFEM was the central
SAP measure supported by TPED. SFEM was administered by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and
funded from the proceeds of oil exports and external financing. Alongside SFEM was an officially
recognized interbank or autonomous market, which purchased funds from holders of non-oil export
earnings and sold them to importers and other users of foreign exchange. (The parallel market also
continued to operate as an unsanctioned barometer of market forces.) SFEM came into operation on
September 26, 1986. The first auction produced an immediate depreciation of the naira from N 1.33 per
US$1 to N4.6 per US$1. From September 1986, the official first-tier rate, which was reserved for debt
service and other official transactions, gradually adjusted downward and merged with the SFEM in July
1987, a drop of an estimated 66 percent. At unification, the gap between the parallel market and official
exchange rates reached an all-time low of 3.6 percent.



12.    These important gains notwithstanding, two implementation problems arose. First, the authorities
tended to fund the market at an unsustainable level at the expense of debt service and the accumulation
of reserves. Second, the authorities' financial ability to sustain auction funding at higher levels-given
the need to maintain agreed debt-service payments and reserves-was undermined by the setting aside of
foreign exchange in dedication accounts to finance special public investment projects outside budgetary
channels. These issues were discussed during TPED supervision and urgent remedial measures were
recommended. The Government provided assurances that highest priority would henceforth be accorded
to reserve accumulation and agreed debt service obligations, with SFEM funding the residual. The
Goverrnment also indicated that it would close the dedication accounts. Based on this commitment, the
tranche was released on April 16, 1987. However, the authorities found it difficult to adhere to these
commitments, and as the exchange rate depreciated sharply following the reduction in auction funding
in April 1987, the authorities reverted to the previous level of auction funding at mid-year. As a result,
freely usable reserves were almost depleted by the end of the year. In addition, although the oil dedication
accounts were closed, the Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) subsequently opened new
accounts for earnings associated with condensate production to fund priority gas projects.
(b) Trade Policy Reforms
13.    Removal of Import and Price Controls.  With the launching of SFEM, the Government
abolished the import licensing system and the 30 percent import surcharge that had been introduced in
the 1986 budget to curtail imports. The import prohibition list was trimmed. Most items remaining on
the prohibited list were in the food and textiles categories. Continued reliance on quantitative restrictions
reflected the Government's strong concern that tariffs alone would not provide adequate protection and
that prohibitions were essential in the initial adjustment period. Price controls were abolished with the
inception of the SFEM. But prices of fertilizer and domestic petroleum and gas products, which are sold
through public enterprises, continued to be set administratively.
14.    Restructuring of Tariffs.  The Government implemented interim  import duty and excise
schedules in October 1986. The interim tariff reduced the dispersion of tariff rates and brought about
a decline in the trade-weighted average nominal tariff from 33 percent to 23 percent. Most duty rates
fell in the range of 10 to 30 percent. Some agricultural and industrial import products which competed
with major domestic producers remained subject to higher nominal rates of up to 60 percent, and some
luxury goods such as motor vehicles were subject to rates of 100 percent or more. Shortly after adopting
the interim tariff, the Government made two further adjustments to tariffs and excises. The 1987 budget
reduced tariffs on 18 items, and one month later, tariffs and excises covering an additional 24 product
groups were adjusted. These changes effectively increased protection of some lines of production. In
reviewing trade policy performance for the second tranche release, the Bank noted that the two
adjustments were not entirely within the guidelines agreed for the interim tariff, but that the Government
nevertheless had resisted making wider changes sought by domestic industries and had deferred
consideration of any further changes until completion of a major tariff review.
15.    Export Incentive Measures.  The Government introduced several export incentives and
promotion measures under TPED. All requirements for the surrender of foreign exchange from non-oil
exports were abolished and such earnings were allowed to be kept in domiciliary accounts. This
provision permitted exporters to convert foreign currency into naira as they saw fit. The use of foreign
exchange, however, remained subject to the same restrictions that applied to funds purchased on the
foreign exchange auction. The Government also abolished most export prohibitions. But selected
prohibitions were reinstituted as in the case of poor harvests in 1987 which led to bans on grain exports.



- 6 -
Prohibitions were subsequently extended for certain other crops, including raw palm kernels, timber, and
raw hides.
16.   The SAP eliminated all export licensing requirements -- except for reasons of health, nationai
security, nature conservation, or the preservation of national cultural heritage. All export duties were
abolished, and export procedures and documentation were simplitied. The Government undertook a study
pursuant to the reorganization of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC). The council was
subsequently reorganized with enhanced private sector participation to strengthen its capabilities and
responsiveness to exporters.
17.   The Government also approved guidelines for operation of a revised Duty Drawback Scheme
(DDS).'  A key modification was streamlining and simplifying the administrative procedures and
emphasizing transparency, automaticity, and efficiency so that the DDS would be more effective. After
lengthy start-up delays, the scheme nominally came into operation at the end of July 1987; however, it
faced numerous administrative problems, including difficulties in verifying underlying import and export
transactions.
18.    Under TPED, the CBN introduced a Rediscount/Refinance facility for exporters whereby the
CBN provided banks with more than N500 million in 1988 which benefited mostly cocoa export
transactions. Export insurance, financing guarantee arrangements, and dissolution of state-owned trading
companies were among the other notable changes in export policy.
2.    TIPL
(a) Exchange Rate Reform
19.   In 1987, the exchange rates on the auction, interbank, and parallel markets moved in tandem, and
the spreads across the various rates were small. However, the differential between the official auction
rate on the one hand and the interbank and parallel market rates on the other widened, starting in early
1988. This was due to two factors. First, expansionary fiscal policy in the 1988 budget had put
downward pressure on the exchange rate which was reflected in the interbank and parallel market rates.
.MIeanwhile, the auction rate reflected guidance from the authorities about responsible bidding behavior
by banks. The guidance was reinforced by operating procedures whereby each participating bank was
virtually assured a specific quota of foreign exchange at the auction. Under this system, the auction rate
did not keep pace with developments in the interbank market. As a result, the spread widened to 60
percent.
20.   Interbank Foreign Exchange Market (IFEM). In mid-1988, in the context of discussions with
the Bank on TIPL and with the Fund on the new stand-by arrangement, the authorities implemented
measures to restore fiscal balance and allowed the exchange rate to depreciate. By November 1988, the
spread had been reduced to 30 percent. In the context of the agreement between the Government and
the IMF on a new stand-by arrangement, this was judged sufficient progress for presenting TIPL to the
The 1959 regulations, for instance, required the processing of drawback applications, including
the determination of input-output coefficient schedules, to be done case-by-case after the exporter
had filed for the drawback. This approach was administratively cumbersome and substantially
delayed processing.



Board, and once approved. for loan effectiveness. In January 1989, the CBN introduced the Interbank
Foreign Exchange Market (IFEM). Although the official exchange rate depreciated sharply with the
introduction of IFEM, the parallel market rate depreciated pan passu. Throughout 1989 and 1990, the
spread between the official and the interbank rates fluctuated narrowly in the 20-30 percent range. But
from the beginning, the effectiveness of the IFEM was constrained by an institutionalized lack of
competition and limited supply of foreign exchange to fund the new market. Banks continued to be
assured a fixed share of foreign exchange, almost regardless of their bids. Their quotations provided the
basis for fixing the daily rate and failed to retlect true market conditions. Opening a new window for
legalized, market-based transactions, the Government authorized bureaux de change in September 1989
for transactions in foreign currency notes and travellers checks.
21.   Subsequently, the operation of the foreign exchange market has been changed several times, as
rapid inflation has often produced exchange rate pressures that conflicted with political objectives. In
December 1990, a Dutch auction system was introduced, which resulted in a narrowing of the official
and parailel rates. But the authorities retained considerable input in determining the level of the official
exchange rate. Inflationary pressures during the next two years led to an increase in the spread between
the foreign exchange bureau rate and the auction rate - reaching 83 percent in March 1992, when a new
interbank system replaced the auction system. With the CBN buying and selling foreign exchange to
licensed dealers at market-determined rates, the spread narrowed to 10 percent. In the beginning of 1993,
foreign exchange reserves declined to precipitously low levels and demand outstripped supply. The gap
between the official and the parallel market widened to 50 percent.
(b) Trade System and Export Promotion
22.    TIPL supported the consolidation of the trade liberalization effort initiated under TPED.
Following a comprehensive review, which was financed by the Bank-supported technical assistance
project, the Government announced a new tariff regime in the 1988 budget. Reflecting concerns that the
interim tariff had gone too far too fast, and had seriously undermined the financial viability of much of
the manufacturing sector, the new unweighted average nominal tariff schedule was set at 28 percent,
which was above that of the 1986 interim schedule. It was coupled with the introduction of stricter
customs procedures. including pre-shipment inspection, thereby  increasing duty payments from
importers-and effective protection. Another feature of the new tariff was that it specified rates for a
seven-vear period (up to 1994) as a means of providing producers and consumers with a longer policy
horizon within which to make decisions.
23.    Despite the intent to provide stability in the tariff structure, tariff rates for a number of key
products were subsequently modified at the Government's discretion.2 As a result, predictability of the
tariff regime was not fully achieved. There is still considerable dispersion in levels of protection, and
since 1988, tariffs have been modified on an ad hoc basis. For example, the 1989 budget resulted in
changes which increased the average nominal tariff rates modestly. The import duty for commercial
vehicles and parts was reduced, and in mid-1989 such duties were suspended as part of the SAP relief
In January 1989, there were substantial increases on duties for a number of products mainly to
protect domestic industries. At the same time, duty on iron ore was eliminated and duties for
intermediate products used in local industries were reduced. In 1990 import duties for various
starches, i.e. wheat, were raised to 200 percent. Other changes in 1991 included increases of
duties on a number of semi-manufactured steel products.



- 8 -
measures designed to relieve transportation bottlenecks. Import duties increased to 200 percent on certain
domestic industries such as soap, light bulbs, and footwear. Steel tariffs were raised in 1991 to a level
where Delta Steel would break even at a 15 percent capacity utilization rate.
24.    Meanwhile, import bans still apply to an estimated 20 percent of industrial production and 30
percent of agricultural products. However, Nigeria's porous borders and weak enforcement imply that
the prohibitions have little overall impact. Nevertheless, producer groups contend that the ban on certain
fabrics has raised domestic prices for consumers and impeded the export of finished goods such as
garments, and that the import ban on maize has resulted in poultry feed shortages, and a decline in
domestic poultry production.
25.    Tariff Review Board. The Government established an independent TRB in 1988 which was
attached to the office of the President and included representatives from both the public and private
sectors. The objective of this effort was to promote ownership of the tariff regime. The TRB was
directed by the Government in 1989 to keep the level of tariff protection in constant focus and to offer
local manufacturers protection against dumping and unfair competition.   During the second tranche
release discussions, the Government reaffirmed its commitment to making the TRB the central source of
impartial and technically proficient advice on all aspects of Nigeria's protection policy. The TRB had
a slow start and was embroiled in procedural and start-up issues and has not been very effective thus far.
The TRB lacks a permanent technical secretariat and statutory objectives or mandate which would enable
it to bring an impartial analytical and economy-wide perspective on trade policies.
26.   Import Duty Assessment. The Government introduced a new import duty assessment and
collection system which relied on off-shore, pre-shipment inspection of imports and assessment of duties.
The intent of the measure was to redress the problem of low collections, but the efforts initially did not
translate into higher revenue streams.   An institutional framework for dealing with this issue was
introduced in the IDMC in which the Budget Office, Customs, CBN, and Treasury took part. While
some improvement in duty collection occurred after its introduction, the IDMC's capability remains
constrained by insufficient technically trained staff with limited access to computing facilities for
electronic compliance and matching of data from various sources.
27.    Duty Drawback Scheme. TIPL continued the Bank's support for efforts to operationalize the
DDS. The problems stemmed from the resistance of the Department of Customs to verify underlying
import and export transactions. By mid-1989, only twelve rebates had been processed through the DDS.
In response, the Government issued revised operational guidelines in December 1989 and the DDS
Committee indicated it would strive for a six-week turnaround time between application for and provision
of rebates. The Budget Office also began to play more of a guiding role in the DDS. Government
commitment to the system was demonstrated in the 1991 budget allocation of N 10 million to fund rebates
under the duty drawback scheme: the allocation was increased to N50 million in 1992. Even so,
implementation problems persist, and many exporters do not use the facility.
(c) Private Investment
28.    To improve the regulatory environment for private investment, several steps were undertaken
during TIPL: (i) the creation of the IDCC as a 'one-stop shop" for all initial approvals that new
investors were required to obtain; (ii) the promulgation of an enabling decree relaxing the restraints on
direct foreign investment; (iii) requiring the IDCC to approve or reject any proposed investment project
within 30 days of receipt of application, as well as reaffirming the elimination of the need for locational



approval. In the event, the IDCC has been functioning, albeit with less efficiency than programmed.
29.   Incentive Framework.  To attract foreign capital, and new foreign investment as well as
remittances of dividends were allowed to be channelled through the foreign exchange market to take
advantage of the prevailing market-determined exchange rates. In 1988, the Government launched further
fiscal incentive measures to encourage private investment. They included (i) a limitation of tax liability
on dividends, interest, and royalties up to the amounts subject to withholding; (ii) reduction of the
corporate tax rate for small and medium-scale enterprises to 20 percent for the first 3 years of operation;
and (iii) increases in capital allowances for certain other activities. The Govermnent also completely
eliminated the previous 50 percent limit on profits that could be declared as dividends.
30.    Foreign Investment. To open up areas for additional foreign investment, the Government
amended the NEPD which had been a central element of the indigenization program introduced in 1977.
The list of scheduled enterprises which were exclusively reserved for Nigerians was reduced from three
to one. Foreigners and Nigerians alike were allowed to invest and own up to 100 percent equity in
unscheduled and scheduled (except for one category) enterprises. In the case of scheduled enterprises,
however, foreign investment had to exceed N20 million. The decree was delayed long past its initial due
date, but when it was finally promulgated, it turned out to be more far-reaching than anticipated. But
although noteworthy reforms were made in foreign investment, barriers remain. Foreign investors can
remit 100 percent of dividends and royalties, but all remittances must be approved by the Ministry of
Finance. Approval requires that the company has paid all necessary taxes for the prior three years.
Delays of up to one year to obtain remittance approval are not uncommon.
31.    Debt Conversion.  The Government also introduced and successfully administered a debt
conversion scheme designed to reduce foreign debt while promoting private investment. Ten debt
auctions were conducted through December 1989. Currently, the debt conversion mechanism is in
principle open to commercial bank debt and debt equity swaps, and other instruments are being
developed. As of April 1990, 113 debt conversion projects had been approved in principle whose value
is estimated at US$1.1 billion. More than half of the projects were in the manufacturing sector and about
one-third of the projects were in the agricultural sector.
(d) Public Investment Program (PIP)
32.    TIPL also supported the rationalization of the capital budgeting process and the public investment
program. Considerable progress was initially made on the budgeting process side. Guidelines on
securing external financing of public investment projects were issued and implemented.3  Other
guidelines for a reformed capital budgeting process were also adopted which incorporated the use of
economic criteria in PIP development. The guidelines required sectoral ministries to provide sufficient
documentation for the Federal Office of Planning to appraise project proposals.' Based on the
guidelines, the Government undertook to rationalize the existing project portfolio and not to embark on
The guidelines stipulated that for a project in the economic sector to be cleared for foreign
financing, it must be supported by a feasibility study and its internal rate of return was at least
as high as the cost of borrowing.
' They also required that spending ministries provide a project-by-project accounting of actual
expenditures on a quarterly basis, prior to the release of new spending authorizations.



- 10 -
new projects. except on an exceptional and limited basis. The guidelines also stressed maintenance and
rehabilitation, as well as infrastructure and human resources. These priorities have been retlected in the
1989 and subsequent federal capital budgets; they represent an improvement in the etficiency of public
spending covered by the federal budget. Even so, there remains a continuing bias in federal public
expenditures for capital-intensive projects at the expense of operations and maintenance. Moreover, while
simultaneously undertaking privatization and commercialization initiatives, the federal government's
portfolio has expanded through recapitalizations of some enterprises and additional capital investments
in other enterprises. On the whole, the reforms were not successful in curtailing or rationalizing public
investments. The extra-budgetary expenditures that have characterized the federal fiscal policy landscape
in recent years have contributed to serious fiscal and monetary imbalances.
33.    Steel. Within the capital expenditure program. the most discussed subsector was steel. The
Government agreed to adopt a steel restructuring program, which allowed the release of TIPL's second
tranche on November 1, 1989. The agreed approach was based on a major subsector review that had
been commissioned by the Government and financed under TPED. The report indicated that within a
given level of public expenditures for this subsector, production could be increased in the short run
without undermining long-run prospects. This was to be implemented by reallocating funds targeted for
investments in new capacity at the Ajaokuta Steel Complex to working capital at the Delta Steel
Company, which could permit a rapid build-up of steel sector capacity utilization. The Government also
agreed to limit expenditures at the Ajaokcuta Steel Complex to a cap of US$45 million per annum (as
compared with more than US$200 million in 1988) pending the outcome of specified feasibility studies
and agreement with the Bank on a new approach. In the event, the authorities did not keep to the cap.
Moreover, from 1986 to 1991, Delta Steel capacity utilization never exceeded 14 percent in any one year.
The major limiting factor is the shortage of spare parts and extensive cannibalization of the non-operating
part of the plant has occurred to repair the portion of the plant that is operational. Even with tariff
protection of 50 to 70 percent, Delta Steel has not been able to break even.
4. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT
34.    The SAP was successful in generating real GDP growth averaging 5 percent per year from 1986
to 1992. This represents a large turnaround from the decline in real GDP averaging 2 percent per year
from 1980 to 1986. It compares favorably to the TPED and TIPL forecast of 4 percent annual growth
during the program period. Although many of the TPED and TIPL conditions were not met, and the
implementation of exchange rate policy was not smooth and often lagged behind market developments,
a real exchange rate depreciation of 78 percent was sustained between mid-1986 and end-1992. This
dramatically changed incentives facing the real economy.
35.    Notwithstanding the major turnaround in growth performance, non-oil exports did not meet
program expectations. The TPEDMTIPL target for non-oil exports was set at US$1 billion, in anticipation
of export diversification and decreased reliance on oil exports. Official export statistics suggest a large
shortfall from that standard. However, substantial exports to neighboring countries continue to be
reported in the press of those countries. In addition to unreported exports, the official export statistics
reflect the impact of large import substitution over the period, particularly for consumer goods. Imports
averaged US$6.8 billion per yer in the 1986-92 period, compared with US$12.8 billion per year in the
1980-85 period.



- 11 -
36.    During the TPED and TIPL disbursement periods, from end-1986 to mid-1990, merchandise
imports totalled about US$23.5 billion, of which TPED and TIPL financing and Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) cofinancing financed US$1.3 billion. Through debt rescheduling, Nigeria
deferred debt service totalling US$25.9 billion over the 1986-1990 period. It nevertheless paid out some
USS8.8 billion in debt service over the period. Without TPED and TIPL (and the IMF standby
arrangement), the debt reschedulings would not have been forthcoming. Larger debt service payments
and arrears would have resulted.
A.    Agriculture
37.    Prior to the SAP, exports of cotton, palm oil, and groundnuts were almost completely eliminated
and drastic reductions were observed in cocoa, rubber, and palm kernel exports. These trends occurred
largely as a consequence of the public sector marketing system, the overvalued exchange rate, and low
producer prices. As a result primarily of exchange rate reform and the elimination of the commodity
boards, relative prices shifted in favor of the rural sector under the SAP. This shift led to a revival of
net cash crop exports, first, and the production of traditional food crops after a lag of 1-2 years. Total
agricultural output has grown by an average rate of 5 percent per year since 1987, which compares
favorably to the pre-SAP period. The food production upswing has reduced Nigeria's food import bill
to one fifth of its 1986 level. Cocoa production increased by about 70 percent in the post-SAP period,
although recently, steep declines in world cocoa prices undermined incentives and production levels.
Rubber exports tripled in real terms from 1986 to 1991.
B.    NIanufacturing
38.    The SAP sought to correct the distorted incentive structure that had encouraged excessive
dependence on imports. It was anticipated that the combined strategies to (i) implement a realistic foreign
exchange rate; (ii) establish an appropriate tariff structure; (iii) liberalize trade to allow access to needed
imports: and (iv) remove ex-factory price controls would facilitate a revival of the manufacturing sector.
From 1986 to 1991, the manufacturing sector grew by an average of 15 percent per year.' The growth
is attributed to local sourcing of domestic inputs. Production in the textile subsector, for example,
doubled from 1986 to 1989. Production of soap, beverages, and tires also grew rapidlv. It is estimated
that local sourcing in the industrial sector increased from 43 percent in 1987 to a high of 51 percent in
1990 and 47 percent in 1991. The prospects for enhanced local sourcing for industrial production appear
good. Small-scale informal manufacturing activities appear to have increased in scope and intensity
because of their traditional reliance on domestic inputs in the production of import substitutes.
39.    The impact of the SAP on capacity utilization has been highly variable. The sectors using
domestic inputs have higher capacity utilization rates than import-dependent sectors. Capacity utilization
improved considerably in the post-SAP period, and ranges from 40 to 80 percent in the food, beverage,
tobacco, leather and other subsectors where local inputs are prevalent. Capacity utilization rates as low
as 7 percent have been observed in the motor vehicle and other assembly industries that rely heavily on
imported inputs.
3  Based on the index of manufacturing provided by the CBN and Federal Office of Statistics.



- 12 -
40.    Empirical resuits of adjustment on private investment in Sub-Saharan Africa suggest that the
uncertainties that frequently characterize countries with macroeconomic instability and exchange rate
volatility tend to reduce private investment. In Nigeria, added investment in the rehabilitation of existing
facilities and equipment has been impeded by the high cost of financing and foreign exchange costs.
Firms with foreign participation starting new ventures were concentrated in agriculture and food
processing, oil, and plastics. In 1991 and 1992, approximately 400 new business permits were issued
to companies with foreign shareholdings. Most foreign investment, however, is taking the form of
reinvestment of profits by existing enterprises.
C.    Social Impact
41.    Although the SAP revived growth, that growth has so far been insufficient to compensate for the
very large drop in purchasing power associated with the collapse of international oil markets. In real per
capita terms, consumption and income are now no higher than they were in the early 1970s prior to the
onset of the oil boom. The urban middle class in particular has borne the consequences of adjustment
to the downturn in oil markets and the collapse of foreign exchange earnings. Taken in conjunction with
the cumulative shocks from the oil markets in the 1980s, the SAP reforms disproportionately affected
civil servants and workers in import-substituting industries. In terms of spending for the social sectors,
at the federal level there was a decline in real terms during the pre-SAP period. This was partly offset
by a recovery of spending on the social sectors during the 1987-90 period.
5. LOAN IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
A.    Role of the Bank
42.   The Bank played a constructive role in Nigeria's adjustment program in the context of TPED and
TIPL preparation and supervision. During the formulation of the SAP, the Bank provided the authorities
with advice on policies and institutional measures based on other countries' experience. Once the poiicy
package was designed, the Bank also became involved in the Government's discussions with creditors.
This involvement began when the Government requested the Bank's help in developing a bridging facilitv
that could fund the SFEM before TPED was declared effective. TPED and TIPL were also predicated
on a satisfactory financial program which necessitated Bank staff's meeting with Nigeria's commercial
bank creditors and assessing whether the emerging financing packages were satisfactory.
43.    Later, when program difficulties arose in 1988, TIPL played a critical role in facilitating the
policy dialogue between the Nigerians and the IMF on the one hand and between the Nigerians and
external creditors on the other. TIPL was also a vehicle for securing concessional aid which was
instrumental in securing policy agreement with the Govermnent. New concessional financial flows
included Japanese (OECF) cofinancing of TIPL, IDA eligibility, and grant funding from the UKI
However, Nigeria did not receive concessional debt relief from official creditors during the period.
B.    Credit Monitoring and Administration
1.    Monitoring
44.    Under TPED, the Government established a SAP Monitoring Unit housed in the Federal Ministry
of Finance. Drawing on inputs from the Cabinet Office, the CBN, and other ministries, the unit was



- 13 -
responsible for preparing periodic reports for the Bank on key indicators of progress in three areas:
(i) trade and export policy measures; (ii) public investment operations: and (iii) foreign exchange market
developments. Under TIPL, the reporting was expanded to cover (i) monthly foreign exchange cash flow
statements from the CBN, (ii) monthly accounting statements of the NNPC; (iii) monthly reports from
the joint working group overseeing the new customs duty assessment and collection procedures;
(iv) quarterly reports on ministerial spending, including extra-budgetary allocations and supplemental
warrants; and (v) expenses incurred and expenditures made for all steel projects including Itakpe Iron
Ore. After some hiatus reflecting miscommunications, the reporting process went well with the exception
of data for steel which were not provided through the SAP Monitoring Unit. The unit also supplied
macroeconomic data to the IMF during the periods when there have been stand-by arrangements.
2.    Tranche Release
45.   For both TPED and TIPL, tranche release took longer than was projected in the respective
President's Reports. TPED's second tranche was released five months after loan effectiveness whereas
the President's Report had projected two to three months. TIPL's second tranche was released 10 months
after loan effectiveness and the President's Report had projected 4 to 6 months. In both cases, the delay
reflected the complex problems that emerged prior to release, namely auction funding levels for TPED
and the steel restructuring plan for TIPL. In both cases, undertakings and assurances provided to the
Bank that were instrumental in securing the release of the tranche-SFEM auction funding levels for
TPED and expenditure accruals for steel for TIPL-were subsequently reversed.
3.    Disbursements and Procurement
46.   The quick-disbursing proceeds of TPED and TIPL were used exclusively for the financing of
foreign exchange costs of eligible imports through the foreign exchange market of the Central Bank.
With the exception of the standard negative list, which excludes luxury, defense, and other items, all
imports were eligible for financing. Documentary support for disbursement provided to the Bank was
in the form of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), with the underlying transaction documentation
maintained at the CBN. Under TPED, there were several disbursements and some procedural difficulties
arising mainly from slow transmission of the necessary replenishment documents. TPED closed on
December 31, 1991, 48 months after its scheduled closing date. The delay was associated with the US$2
million technical assistance component. The quick-disbursing portion of the loan amount was disbursed
in line with program projections. At loan closing, US$513,548 of the technical assistance fund was
canceled.  Under TIPL, supervision of the documentation underlying the SOEs submitted for
disbursement revealed some problems with duplication, but these were rectified. TIPL closed on
December 31, 1990 fully disbursed.
4.    Reporting and Auditing
47.   The Loan Agreement for TPED and TIPL stated that the Borrower would have all records and
accounts audited by independent auditors for each fiscal year and that the reports would be submitted to
the Bank for its review no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The submission of
audited statements and reports for loan accounts was usually subject to four-month delays. The audit
report for the year ending December 31, 1991 is still outstanding.



- 14 -
C.     Bank Performance
48.   The Bank accorded TPED and TIPL the highest priority between 1986 and mid-1990, when the
Bank stopped supervising the operations. Senior management was involved at all stages ot the project
cycle. The Senior Vice President for Operations established the Bank's basic approach to supporting
reform in Nigeria in discussions with President Babangida in April 1986. He indicated to the commercial
banks the Bank's criteria for a satisfactory financing plan and met with the negotiating team in
Washington. He played a key role in helping to establish the official bridge facility to TPED. The
Bank's Vice President, Africa Regional Office, went to Lagos to discuss the problems on tariffs and
auction funding that surfaced in early 1987, which affected the decision to first delay and later to release
the second tranche of TPED.
49.   Following the Bank's internal reorganization, the Director, Western Africa Department,
maintained close personal involvement with TPED supervision and with TIPL preparation and
supervision. Given the long delay between appraisal and negotiations of TIPL associated with the
deterioration in the macroeconomic environment, the Operations Committee met to review the TIPL
negotiations package and approved the increased emphasis on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
50.   TPED and TIPL provided the context in which virtually all macroeconomic work in the
Department-and all work on private sector development-was carried out. TIPL and TPED absorbed
300 staffweeks in supervision. The Country Economic Memorandum, Public Expenditure Review, and
the preparation of other reports also supported supervision efforts. In addition, TIPL's 300 staffweeks
devoted to preparation bolstered TPED supervision. The staffweeks expended to prepare the proposed
Budgetary and Financial Policy Loan (BFPL), which did not move forward because of the performance
on steel and the deteriorating macroeconomic situation, were relevant for supervising TPED and TIPL.
51.   Against this background of high-intensity supervision and high-level attention, the Bank during
supervision of TPED and TIPL, focussed fairly consistently on the foreign exchange issue, on the
macroeconomic and exchange rate framework, and on steel. These priorities were consistently conveyed
to the authorities. Other policy areas-particularly with respect to trade policy, the import bans, and
industrial policies-were less consistently pursued by the Bank. This retlected ambivalence by the Bank
about their relative importance. The result was that the Bank gave mixed signals to the authorities on
these issues.
52.   During the supervision of TIPL, Bank staff followed the strategy of identifying and working with
Nigerian officials who were committed to a particular policy component or program. This approach
helped to determine priorities during supervision, as staff concentrated on those institution-building areas
where the dialogue was the strongest and in those institutions where there was an interlocutor fully
committed to the program's objectives. The Bank stopped supervising TPED and TIPL in mid-1990,
when disbursements ended. In part, this reflected wholesale changes in staffing in the Western Africa
Department. But it coincided with the sharp change in the macroeconomic environment in Nigeria, as
the Gulf War boosted petroleum prices and Nigeria's export and budgetary receipts, setting off a new
wave of macroeconomic expansion.



- 15 -
D.    Borrower Performance
53.   The Government also accorded high priority to TPED and TIPL. These loans supported the SAP,
which was fully owned by the Government. Indeed, the issues carried central importance in the political
economy of Nigeria. In addition, the loan funds provided an important source of revenue for the foreign
exchange market, and agreements with the Bank and IMF were pre-conditions for creditor rescheduling.
Accordingly, TPED and TIPL conditionality and tranche release issues received the personal attention
of the Governor of the Central Bank and the Ministers of Finance and of (Budget and) Planning.
Throughout these agencies, officials gave TPED and TIPL priority over other tasks.
54.   The Government was successful in implementing many politically controversial reforms,
particularly in the early stages of the adjustment programn. These included devaluation of the nain,
abolition of the import licensing system, and the dismantling of the commodity boards. These measures
removed important sources of rent seeking in the economy and challenged vested interests. Even so, they
proved to be sustainable and important for the economy's growth performance.
55.   However, not all undertakings provided under TPED and TIPL were successfully implemented
Some actions on tariff rates were subsequently reversed, and on steel the promised actions simply wem
not taken. These largely sectoral undertakings were less under the control of the central ministries and
the CBN. The shortfalls reflected inadequate ownership in the relevant sectoral ministries. In other
areas, such as the DDS and facilitating private investment, the problem was due to weak implementin
institutions.
6. ASSESSMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
56.   The performance of TPED and TIPL was mixed owing to several factors: (i) the political
difficulty of implementing and sustaining difficult sectoral adjustment measures; (ii) the lack of sufficient
institutional capacity to implement some of the reforms; and (iii) instability in the underlying
macroeconomic framework. But despite these difficulties, the real economy responded well-pointing
to the significance of the reforms that were indeed implemented. More recently, the macroeconomic
situation has deteriorated sharply and inflation has accelerated. Increased uncertainty and difficulties in
the foreign exchange market threaten to undermine the gains from the SAP.
A.    Political Will and Ownership
57.   Nigeria was successful in implementing important adjustment measures that were politically
sensitive. But the gains made under the SAP diminished somewhat as vested interests lobbied for-and
won-reversals on public expenditures, especially for steel, and individual trade policy and import duty
issues. Clearly, the sustainability of the reforms requires domestic ownership, not only by political
leaders but also those responsible to the particular policy areas and those who bear the cost of adjustmenL
58.   Lessons Learned. In analyzing the costs and benefits of alternative policy options the Bank
should also consider their distributional impact. Indeed, the TPEDMIPL experience demonstrates that
a commitment to addressing difficult policy issues that challenge important special interests needs to
precede Bank support for them. In retrospect, it is clear that the Bank should have considered more
carefully the risks associated with weak political support for some of TPED's and TIPL's more



- 16 -
controversial components, such as restructured public expenditures for steel and tariff reform. Once non-
compliance with the agreed spending cap for steel was apparent, the Bank was correct to rethink the
design of the follow-up operation that was under preparation (and to shelve it when the macroeconomic
environment changed so radically).
B.    Institutional Capacity
59.   Institutional capacity was found to be an important determinant of implementation success. The
SFEM  was successfully implemented because-in addition to enjoying high-level support-it was
administered through the CBN and scarce managerial talent was deployed to implement it. In contrast,
the DDS was not implemented successfully in part because its design was too complex, having been based
on a prototype developed for Korea's greater institutional capacity. The NEPC was not successful in part
because it lacked high-level support; but it also lacked the necessary institutional capacity to take the lead
within the Govermnent on the key issues. The supervision strategy followed for TIPL's institution-
building components was appropriate, in which priorities were set according to the strength and
commitment of the local implementing agency.
60.    Lessons Learned. Implementation plans need to be designed to reflect the capacity and potential
of the implementing agencies. Overly ambitious institutional designs lead to frustration and paralysis.
The Bank's supervision strategy for institution-building components needs to be flexible, adaptive, and
opportunistic in the face of changing institutional commitment and personnel.
C.    Ownership of Macroeconomic Policy Reforms
61.    For Nigeria, the management of oil revenues is essential, given the volatility in the oil market
and the extent to which the prominence of oil in the economy translates that volatility into macroeconomic
disequilibria. The SAP was adopted in the wake of a severe downturn in the oil market, which had
negative consequences for the economy. The downturn made the SAP all the more necessary, but it also
made the timing of the SAP inauspicious from a political-economy perspective. Indeed, purchasing power
and household incomes dropped after the program was introduced, but because of the deterioration in the
oil market.  Even so, Nigerians continue to attribute the negative impact on the economy of the
deterioration in the oil market to the SAP; this undermined political support for the program. At issue
is whether it is better for adjustment to moderate a decline that is occurring, as was true in Nigeria, or
to wait for the economy to bottom out before initiating adjustment.
62.    Lessons Learned. Timing is critical. If adjustment is undertaken when an economy is still
declining in response to a negative exogenous shock, widespread ownership of the program-grounded
in a full understanding of the consequences of inaction-is essential if the public is to disentangle the
negative effects of the shock from the ameliorative effects of the program, and persevere in its support
for the program. As a general rule, in gauging the likelihood of program success and sustainability, the
Bank needs to evaluate the degree of understanding of the program and its likely consequences. This rule
is particularly important when the adjustment actions are being taken early in the cycle, when conditions
are likely to get worse before they get better.



- 17 -
D.    Prioritization of Policy Reforms
63.    As noted earlier, considerable slippage notwithstanding, overall growth performance was good.
This reflects the fact that the key distortions associated with the pricing and availability of foreign
exchange in the economy were considerably reduced by the program. These reforms were essential for
improving the incentive framework for the agricultural and manufacturing sectors.
64.    Lessons Learned. Prioritization-and focus on a few key policy reforms-both conserves scarce
implementation capacity-and if the reforms are chosen smartly-yields results. While many of TPED's
and TIPL's trade policy reforms were not successfully implemented, the overall results of the program
for the real economy suggest that these were less important than the underlying exchange rate and import
licensing reforms. Hence the Bank's focus in the dialogue on preserving the conditions necessary to
sustain the exchange rate reform-and its giving second place to the import prohibitions and tariff rates
was appropriate. The central challenge now is to bring the macroeconomic situation back under control,
as a necessary step in restoring the integrity of the exchange rate reform.



- 18 -
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Multilateral Institutions Department
DfVISlON
Abuja
14
P.M.B. No _
MINFIN                                                  F11373/S.32/C.94/111/T/
Telegrams                                                         Ref. No. ___________
Telephone                                                         Date 1st November, 1993
The President
The World Bank
1818 H. Street N. W.
Washington D. C. 20433
U. S. A.
RI: TRADN POLICY AND ErPORT DEVELOPMENT LCAN (LN 2458 - UNI)
TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN (LN 3011 - UNI):
PROJECT REVIZW FROM THE BORROWER'S P,RSPEGTIVE
I am directed to refer you to the above subject matter and
to forward herewith a copy of the Project Completion Report (PCR)
part II, as viewed by the Project Executing Agency (PEA), the
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).
2.   With my best regards.
fo. D. ooARI 
for: Honourable Secl;;fiary of inLance.



- 19 -
CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA
Obasanjo Road
Garki, Abuja
PRIVATE MAIL BAG 0187: CABLES: CENBANK:
TELEPHONE: 2342259/
Ref:                                      Date: 28th September, 1993.
The Honourable Secretary of Finance,
Federal Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development,
Multilateral Institutions Dept.,
Abuja.
ATTENTION: 0. D. ILARIOGUN
Dear Sir,
RE: TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN (LN.2758-UNI)
TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN (LN.3011-UNI)
PROGRAMME REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
We refer to your letter Ref. No. F11373/S.32/C.94/11/T/32 of 22nd
June, 1993 on the above subject matter, and hereby forward to you
the attached review of the two loans.
Best Regards.
J.  . Ogunmuyide,
Asst. Director,
DEBT MANAGEMENT DEPT.



- 20 -
PROGRAMME REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
BORROWER'S INPUT TO PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
(i) WORLD BANK TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN - TPED
(LN.2758-UNI)
LOAN AMOUNT: US$452 MILLION.
(ii) WORLD BANK TRADE & INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN-TIPL
(LN 3011-UNI)
LOAN AMOUNT: US$500 MILLION.
INTRODUCTION:
It is important to state that the Trade Policy and Export
Development Loan (TPED) and the Trade and Investment Policy Loan
(TIPL) were Balance of Payments support loans to support the
Nigerian Government's Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) which
was adopted in 1986. In the context of SAP, TPED focussed on
exchange rate and trade policy reform while TIPL sought to
consolidate those policies.
APPRAISAL
The World Bank played an important role in Nigeria's
adjustment programme through the TPED and TIPL Loans and by
providing the Nigerian authorities with advice on policy and
institutional reforms based on other countries' experience.
The TIPL played a critical role in facilitating the policy dialogue
between Nigerian Government and the Fund on the one hand and on the
other hand between Nigerian Government and external creditors. It
also played a catalytic role as it enabled new financial inflows
such as the Japanese OECF fund of US$200m equivalent, US$100
million and US$21 million grants from UK and USA, respectively.
The proceeds of the TPED and TIPL were used almost



- 21 -
exclusively for the financing of foreign exchange market of the
Central Bank (CBN). The borrower strictly adhered to the list of
imports which were eligible for financing. Since the bulk of the
loans was applied to funding the foreign exchange market (FEM), it
was greatly beneficial to the economy.
The US$1 million provided under the TPED scheme was allocated
to consultancy services for the steel subsector. Under the scheme,
US$1 million was also allocated for Technical Assistance and
Training of some Nigerians. This was also beneficial because many
official of Federal Ministry of Finanace (FMF), CBN and Nigeria
Export Promotion Council (NEPC) attended several export related
courses and seminars overseas. The programmes they attended
enhanced their capacity building and helped to facilitate the
implementation of the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP).
The Nigerian government was successful in implementing many
politically controversial but economically desirable reforms in the
early stages of the structural adjustment program. These included
the devaluation of the naira, which removed the over-valuation of
the naira exchange rate, abolition of the import licensing system,
and the dismantling of the commodity boards, which helped to reduce
the distortions in the pricing system and reallocate resources more
efficiently than was previously the case.
Funds were available for funding the Foreign Exchange Markets
(FEM) which was a component of SAP. The SAP was successful in
generating real GDP growth averaging 5% per year between 1986 and
1992. This compares favourably with TPED and TIPL forecast of 4%



- 22 -
annual growth during the programme period. It was also observed
that the total agricultural output had grown by an average of 5%
per year between 1987 and 1991. The manufacturing sector also grew
by an average rate of 15% per year between 1986 and 1991.
However, the gains made under the SAP diminished especially
for steel and import duty draw-back. The Steel sector did not make
appreciable improvement during the period mainly because the sum of
US$900,000 disbursed to the sector was inconsequential to have
improved the sector. Another limiting factor was the shortage of
spare  parts  to  the  steel  sector.    Although,  the  SFEM  was
successfully implemented the duty draw back system encountered some
problems during the later period of implementation.
With regard to the role of the World Bank some shortcoming
were observed in the implementation of the loans.  Although the
draw-downs of the loans were initially intended to be fast, it
turned out to be slow and  longer than expected.    The delay
experienced in the draw-down reflected the cumbersome legal
technicalities and the disbursement procedure. The disbursement of
the World Bank loan was in two equal tranches of 50% each. On the
first tranche, thje borrower encountered no delay in effecting a
draw-down. However, the delay arose in the draw-down of the second
tranche of the loan. Disbursements under this tranche had built-in
delay as they were subject to the forwarding of the necessary
replenishment documents by the Central Bank of Nigeria to the World
Bank.    Too  often  the  CBN  found  it difficult  forwarding  the
necessary documents on time, because of the delayed submission to



- 2 3 -
it of relevant shipping documents by the Authorised dealers.
According to the World Bank, the submission of the audited
statements and reports of the loan account was usually delayed by
four months and that the audited report for the year ending
December 31st, 1991 was still outstanding. The observation by the
World Bank is correct. However, the delay in the submission of the
audited statements of the loan account to the World Bank reflected
the delay in carrying out the auditing by the independent auditors.
Consequently, we have contacted our independent external auditors
to carry out the outstanding audit Statement of the loans.
Despite the few short-comings, overall performance was good.
The reforms were essential for improving the incentive
framework for the agricultural and manufacturing sectors.
RECOMMENDATIONS:
(i) The Nigerian Government in the future should critically look
into the reasons for the failure of certain aspects of TPED's and
TIPL's controversial components, such as restructured public
expenditure for steel and tariff reform.
(ii) Since the loan was taken by the FMF on behalf of the
Federal Government, it was seen as extra revenue in form of grant
to government in the Treasury. In view of this, it is suggested
that such loans in the future should be taken directly by the CBN,
to ensure judicious utilisation of the naira counterpart of the
loan. This will facilitate a smooth servicing of the loans when
they are due.
(iii)    Since  the  amount  allocated  to  the  steel  sector  was



- 24 -
negligible, it is suggested that the amount should have been
allocated to funding of the Foreign Exchange Market (FEM). This
would have further enhanced the real Gross Demostic Product (GDP)
growth rate of the economy.



- 25 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN (LOAN 2758-UN1)
Basic Loan Data
Item                                    Date
Initiating Memorandum
Letter of Development Policy               September 3, 1986
Negotiations                               August 25-27, 1986
Board Approval                             October 16, 1986
Loan Agreement                             October 20, 1986
Effectiveness                              November 20, 1986
Second Tranche Release                     April 16, 1987
Original Closing Date                      December 31, 1988
Actual Closing Date                        December 31, 1991
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
(Amounts in USS Million)
Item           FY87        FY88        FY89        FY90       FY91    FY92
(i) Planned         440.0        12.0
(ii) Actual         450.0         0.5         0.5         0.2        0.2      0.1
(ii) as % of (i)   102.3%       4.2%



- 26 -
Mission Data
No. of   No. of   Staff
Item          Month/year      weeks   persons  weeks
Appraisal      May 1986               3.8        5    19.0
Postappraisal    July/August 1986    12.6        2     12.6
Negotiations   August 1986            1.4        2      2.8
Supervision I    Nov./Dec. 1986      15.3        6    15.3
Supervision II   January 1987         1.2        1      1.2
Supervision III  February 1987        3.6        3    10.8
Supervision IV   March 1987           0.6        2      1.2
Supervision V    May 1987             2.0        2      4.0
Supervision VI  October 1987          1.6        3      4.8
Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Item     FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93
LENP          31.7
LENA                 17.5
LENN                36.6
LENP-Other
SPN                 29.4  33.2   4.2   4.4   2.7   1.9
PCR                                                  4.5  1.1



- 27 -
TPED Disbursement Schedule
Amount
Date                (USS equivatent)
11/26/86                  45,000,000.00
11/26/86                   1,450,043.00
11/26/86                  58,448,451.84
12/05/86                   5,434,954.63
12/05/86                  63,512,997.41
12/17/86                  46,864,114.31
12/18/86                  27,082,454.10
12/24/86                   2,206,984.71
04/16/87                 100,000,000.00
05/22/87                  76,601,281.59
06/04/87                  19,642,535.51
06/19/87                      756,182.90
10/02/87                       29,048.74
03/22/88                      176,185.40
03/24/88                       21,188.88
07/07/88                       32,155.09
06/29/88                      264,278.10
11/02/88                      30,300.52
11/14/88                     266,727.50
11/21/88                       27,965.79
03/31/89                        3,875.00
03/31/89                        3,875.00
04/18/89                        1,524.13
06/13/89                      132,971.05
06/19/89                        6,244.57
08/14/89                        4,906.00
01/30/90                       82,763.41
02/22/90                        5,850.92
03/15/90                       21,118.69
03/19/90                       44,051.50
05/31/90                        4,500.00
05/31/90                        5,850.00
06/07/90                       11,500.00
06/07/90                        9,190.00
06/20/90                        4,683.73
06/29/90                        7,450.00
07/10/90                       16,933.75
07/27/90                        1,943.80
09/21/90                       55,368.28
10/03/90                       17,648.43
10/11/90                       19,359.00
11/29/90                        7,052.92
12/14/90                      -11,500.00
01/07/91                        8,946.00
01/10/91                       10,666.88
04/29/91                        9,585.18
04/25/91                       11,809.00
05/14/91                       14,231.27
05/14/91                       57,573.30
05/14/91                       14,982.97
05/23/91                       29,204.00
05/06/91                       -9,190.00
06/18/91                      -29,204.00
06/25/91                       10,015.84
06/25/91                       19,234.42
07/16/91                       49,465.38
08/21/91                       -4,300.00
10/31/91                        7,990.00
10/31/91                        8,710.00
12/31/91                         -227.00
01/28/92                        3,920.00



- 28 -
Amount
Date                (USS equivalent)
01/30/92                         2,947.29
02/03/9Z                         5,705.99
04/10/92                          -661.00
451,486,415.72



- 29 -
B. TRADE AND INVESTIENT POLICY LOAN (LOAN 3011-UNI)
Basic Loan Data
Item                                    Date
Initiating Memorandum                      May 11, 1987
Letter of Development Policy               November 28, 1988
Negotiations                               August 1988
Board Approval                             December 22, 1988
Loan Agreement                             December 22. 1988
Effectiveness                              December 27, 1988
Second Tranche Release                     November 6, 1989
Original Closing Date                      March 31, 1990
Actual Closing Date                        December 31, 1990
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
(Amounts in US$ Million)
Item           FY89        FY90        FY91
(i) Planned         250.0       250.0
(ii) Actual         250.0       231.9         18.1
(Hi) as % of (i)    100%       92.8%



- 30 -
Mission Data
No. of   No. of   Staff
[     Item           Month/year      weeks   persons  weeks
Preparation     March 1987             4.8        2      9.6
Preappraisal    April/May 1987         8.9        7    19.9
Appraisal       July 1987              4.5        8    14.5
Negotiations    August 1988            1.0        7      7.0
October 1988           3.0        2      3.0
November 1988          1.5        1      1.5
Supervision I    April 1989            2.0       10    20.0
Supervision II   May 1989              1.0        3      3.0
Supervision III   December 1989        1.0        1      1.0
Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Item     FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93]
LENP          63.2
LENA            5.3  93.4
LENN                 40.4  63.3
SPN                        57.7  52.3   2.0   0.2
PCR                                             4.2   1.1



- 31 -
TIPL Disbursement Schedule
                      ~~~~~~~Amount
Date              (USS ecuivatent)       J
12/30/88               100,000,000.00
01/09/89                24,882,936.50
02/16/89                28,572,443.80
02/16/89                 15,446,608.72
02/16/89                -28,572,443.80
02/16/89                28,572,443.80
02/16/89                -15,446,608.72
02/16/89                 15,446,608.72
02/16/89                -15,446,608.72
02/16/89                 15,446,608.72
02/17/89                  1,138,570.04
02/17/89                 -1,138,570.04
02/17/89                  1,138,570.04
02/22/89                34,469,280.31
02/22/89                20,142,289.10
02/22/89                  2,358,365.54
02/22/89                -34,469,280.31
02/22/89                34,469,280.31
02/22/89               -20,142,289.10
02/22/89                20,142,289.10
02/22/89                 -2,358,365.54
02/22/89                 2,358,365.54
03/03/89                 18,391,164.09
03/03/89                 3,583,124.96
03/16/89                  1,015,216.94
03/23/89                 -2,133,471.00
03/23/89                -18,334,732.35
03/23/89                 -7,203,259.00
03/23/89                 18,334,732.35
03/23/89                 7,203,259.00
03/23/89                  2,133,471.00
04/18/89                 -2,360,416.00
04/18/89                -50,557,184.65
04/18/89               -29,278,248.00
04/18/89                -15,132,689.00
04/18/89                 2,360,416.00
04/18/89                 50,557,184.65
04/18/89                29,278,248.00
04/18/89                 15,132,689.00
11/06/89               125,000,000.00
01/24/90                 14,082,931.27
01/24/90                 8,873,109.67
02/07/90                 14,669,457.00
02/07/90                 4,417,759.00
02/07/90                  1,912,764.00
02/16/90                 -7,990,414.80
02/16/90                  7,990,414.80
02/21/90                -24,793,721.33
02/21/90                 24,793,721.33
03/21/90                29,711,986.00
03/21/90                -29,711,986.00
03/29/90                20,966,560.50
03/29/90                22,662,439.75
03/29/90                 17,971,337.57
04/01/90                -18,778,976.23
04/10/90                 18,778,976.23
04/10/90                    509,037.77
04/10/90                   -509,037.77
04/23/90                  1,301,416.00
06/28/90                -28,432,751.56
06/28/90                -14,783,112.31



-  32  -
Amount
Date               (USS equivalent)
06/28/90                  14,783,112.31
06/28/90                  28,432,751.56
07/18/90                  17,463,040.07
07/31/90                     679,185.17
.                              500,000,000.00



