Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4359-UIII
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$452 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
September 19, 1986
This document his a restrided distnbution ad nmy be used by recipients only in the perfonnace of
their ocial duties. Its contens mny eot odrwise be disclosed without Wodd Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984       Calendar 1985       Sept. 1986
Currency Unit     =        Naira (N)                 N                 N
US$1              =         NO.76                 N 0.89            N 1.33
Ni                =         US$1.31               US$1.12          US$0.75
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBN   -   Central Bank of Nigeria
FMGN  -   Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FfF   -   Federal Ministry of Finance
FMT   -   Federal Ministry of Trade
NEPC  -   Nigerian Export Promotion Council
SAP   -   Structural Adjustment Program
SFEM  -   Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Loan  Summary  ..................................................                              i
Part I - The Economy  ..........................................                               i
A.   Structural Legacy of  the Oil Boom  (1973-80)  ....                        ...........    1
B.   Economic Crisis  (1981-85)  .................................                             3
C.   Policy  Initiatives  ........................................                             5
Part  II - The Adjustment Program  ..............................                              5
A.   Exchange  Rate and Trade Policies  ..........................                             6
B. Monetary Policy                  .................................                          6
C. Fiscal Policy                  .................................                            6
D.   Federal Capital Expenditures  ............................. .                             7
E.   Reform of Public Enterprises  ............................. .                             8
F. Sectoral Policies                  ................................                         9
Part  III - The Proposed Loan  ..................................                              9
A.   Loan History and Objectives  .............................. .                             9
B.   Trade and Export Policy Adjustment Program  ..............                        ..     10
C.   Loan Features  and Operation  .............                ..      ................    13
D.  Monitoring            .......................          .........................          14
E.   Role of  the Bank and the IMF  ..............................                            15
Part IV - Program  Effects and  Implications  ....................    15
A.   Economic  Effects  . ........................                    .................       15
B.   Social  Impact  ..         .................         ...........................    18
C.   Financing               .................................................                20
D. Risks .            .....................................................  21
Part V - Bank Group Operations  in Nigeria  .....................    21
Part VI - Recommendation ........................                                             23
Annexes
I.     Social  Indicator Data  Sheets
II.    Debt,  Federal Budget,  Macroeconomic  Indicators,
Balance of Payments, and Status of Bank Group Operations
III.      Supplementary Loan Data  Sheet
IV.     Government's Letter  of Trade Policy
V.    Non-Oil Export  Prospects  and Development  Program
VI.    Documents in the Project File
map
This document has a restricted distribu;ion and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGERIA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Executing Agency:   Central Bank of Nigeria, Federal Ministries of Finance
and Trade
Amount:             US$452 million equivalent
Terms:               20 years, including five years of grace.  Standard
variable interest rate.
Description:        The proposed loan would support the Government's
efforts to reform trade and export policies with the
objective of increasing domestic output and
restructuring the productive base of the economy in
order to reduce its dependence on the oil sector and on
imports. Specific policy reforms being supported by
the loan are: (i) introduction of a market-determined
exchange rate system; (ii) elimination of trade
restrictions and price controls; and (iii) imple-
mentation of a package of export incentives. The loan
would provide US$450 million equivalent to finance
general imports of goods and US$2 million equivalent to
finance technical assistance and training for export
development and subsector investment studies. These
reforms are being undertaken in the context of a
structural adjustment program recently appr3ved by the
Government.
Benefits and Risks: The immediate benefits of the trade policy reforms
would be to eliminate long-standing distortions in the
incentives system and to improve significantly the
allocation of resources in the economy. The reforms
would improve the profitability of tradeable goods
sectors, particularly of exports, and would generate
over time a sustainable structure of production. The
risks of the program emanate from the far-reaching
nature of the reforms which may generate domestic
pressures against such reforms. A renewal of the
decline in oil prices and the ensuing worsening of the
balance of payments situation may also create pressures
on the Government to revert to controls and abandon its
efforts to free up markets. These risks are expected
to be reduced by: (i) a national consensus that drastic
economic reforms are needed to overcome the economic
crisis; (ii) the Bank and IMF monitoring of the
adjustment program and trade policy reforms in the
context of this loan and a standby arrangement;



- ii -
and (iii) by debt rescheduling and increased financial
flows from the commercial banks and official creditors
in support of the adjustment program.
Estimated
Disbursements:       IBRD Fiscal               1987                 1988
--- US$ millions --
Annual                     440                   12
Cumulative                 440                  452
The loan, except the technical assistance component,
will be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche
of US$250 million would be available for disbursement
at the time of loan effectiveness; the second tranche
of US$200 million is expected to be released two to
three months later, on the ba3is of (i) a favorable
assessment of funding made available by the Government
to support operations of the second-tier exchange
market; and (ii) satisfactory progress on the
implementation of the agreed trade and export policy
reforms.
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   None



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
Trade Policy and Export Development Loan of US$452 million to the Federal
Republic of Nigeria. The loan would be amortized over 20 years, including
5 years of grace. Interest on the loan would be at the standard variable
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The following assessment of the Nigerian economic situation is
based on the findings of an economic mission that visited Nigeria in
March-April 1985, continued economic reporting of the Resident Mission in
Lagos, a review of the 1986 budget and a mission in April-May 1986 that
assisted the Government in drawing up its proposed structural adjustment
program. Annex I presents selected social and economic indicators for
Nigeria.
A. Structural Legacy of the Oil Boom (1973-80)
3.       Export revenues grew rapidly (Chart 1) during 1973-80 as the
buoyant oil market radically altered Nigeria's resource position. The
revenue increases largely accrued to the Government and were used to
finance commensurate increases in public spending. The magnitude and
composition of the increase in domestic resources preempted by the public
sector over this period entailed major changes in the underlying structure
of the economy. Coupled with a package of complementary exchange rate,
import, and pricing policies, these changes increased the economy's
dependence on oil revenues and made it highly vulnerable to a downturn in
that market.
tHAR1 f
NIGERIA FOREIGN TRADE
COILLIONS OF U S DOLLARS)
22.6606
20nwe A^
|".              ,    ,~~~~~~~~~, \
12. ee  -
4.ee0
2.     69                    :76 _6 1-   'S
spa  19  e7    1 Q9e  1 97 1   1 B73   197 1s 2 77   l1g79    ?Gt e   1 983   l oss



- 2 -
4.        Designed partly to heal the wounds of the civil war that had
ended in 1969, the increases in public spending supported an ambitious
public investment program intended to translate rising oil revenues into
infrastructure and productive capacity that would serve as the basis for
diversified growth and development. Significant gains were scored over the
period in both economic and social infrastructure. Transport
infrastructure, particularly roads and ports, expanded considerably, and
educational opportunities spread rapidly; witness the doubling of the
primary school enrollment ratio, which had been about 35 percent at the
beginning of the 1970s. These successes notwithstanding, many public
investment projects had been undertaken without sufficient attention,
either to their economic viability or to the capacity of government
agencies and public enterprises to implement them. By 1980, public
investment, representing over half of total investment, absorbed some 15
percent of GDP and covered a wide range of activities.
5.        The rapid growth of the public sector - and the construction
boom that accompanied the massive public investment program - altered the
prevailing pattern of relative prices and wages and set in train changes in
the underlying structure of the economy. High rates of wage and price
inflation in the non-traded goods sectors, while securing the resources
needed by these sectors to accommodate the expansion in demand, depressed
the non-oil traded goods sector. Labor costs vere boosted by the need to
match wage offers in the construction and service sectors, but export
prices were effectively capped by an exchange rate policy which allowed the
naira to appreciate with rising oil revenues. The combination of rising
domestic costs and the appreciation of the naira meant a sharp
deterioration in international competitiveness (Chart 2). The impact of
these policies on the agricultural sector - the major source of GDP and
export revenues before the oil boom -- vas particularly severe: by 1980
its share in non-oil GDP had fallen to 30 percent, from around 50 percent
in the early 1970s (Chart 3). While non-oil exports stagnated, a
protective import regime, based on a system of licenses and quantitative
controls, was used to insulate domestic industries from foreign
competition. This encouraged the growth of import-based consumer goods
industries which contributed little to domestic value added.
LHART 3
UIART 2                                      tHR 
CHART 2                  ~~~~~~~NIGERIA STRUCTURE OF NON-OIL GDP
NIGERIA EXCHANGE RATE INDICES                ePEPCENTAG SIRES itN COMENT 'R=S7
170*
l1"                                          70-
130~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-30 OO 
140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
'28
7s                    /7.C Jt s                                         _ -
se- 99  *.;7   I§^9 *g79   *gn Is7s   se7    Is7e   le  Bee3   Ig15  9 ^:  7    IPl5Q    Q?X    gn 97.   1177,7   s9le IQ'8s 2se
l08 2l~7   195g    1971   1973   1975S  1077   1070   lOut    1053   I05mh  O7 ,5  l'  93 '7  07  09 18  93 18



-3-
B. Economic Crisis (1981-85)
6.        Throughout the 1970s budgetary expenditures had more than kept
pace with the rapidly rising revenues from oil (Chart 4). Indeed, a small
deficit persisted even in 1980, despite the spectacular rise in oil
earnings that year. Accordingly, as oil revenues fell away in the
following years - to one half their 1980 level in 1983 -- the budgetary
position became increasingly unsustainable. Partly because the downturn
was expected to be short-lived, the Federal and State Governments reacted
slowly to the drop in oil revenues. And by 1983, sizeable external and
fiscal imbalances had emerged - wvth thLe current account deficit reaching
6 percent of GDP and the fiscal deficit fully twice that -- financed by
public sector borrowing, a rundown of international reserves, and a
large-scale accumulation of arrears on external trade payments. At the
same time, the Government continued to follow an exchange rate policy
geared to appreciation in order to damp domestic inflationary pressures.
Notwithstanding the 27 percent depreciation vis a vis the US dollar between
December 1980 and December 1983, the naira posted a 12 percent appreciation
in nominal effective terms over the same period. In real terms the
appreciation approached 50 percent.
tLKART 4
NIGERIA GOVERNMENT FINANCES
crcPcrrTAcF .'l-v ARES OF GOP3
1-S
\/
rISEAL YEARS 0[GpQW     AP RL row 1R`*- 979
7.        The authorities began to implement measures to redress these
deficits in 1984. Budgetary expenditures were slashed and administrative#
controls over imports were tightened. Fiscal austerity was characterized
by across-the-board cuts, in many cases without taking account of the
relative priorities of different types of expenditure or the stage of
completion of projects. Outlays on supplies, spare parts, and routine
maintenance were also generally cut back, even as significant sums were set
aside to support operating deficits of inefficient parastatals and to
provide heavy subsidies, particularly on fertilizers. While steps were
taken to improve the system of trade taxes, controls on factory gate prices
and other market interventions continued to distort the structure of



- 4 -
relative prices. Moreover, the exchange rate was only belatedly allowed to
depreciate beginning in 1985.
8.        Although the austerity measures were successful in bringing about
a rapid decrease in the fiscal and external deficits, their bluntness
exacted a considerable economic toll (Chart 5). Production and employment
in most sectors fell sharply. Even after allowing for the slight recovery
in 1985 resulting from increased oil production and improved harvests, real
GDP in 1985 was some 15 percent lower than at the beginning of the 1980s.
Construction and other service sectors were particularly hard hit by the
cutbacks in public expenditures, and declined at an even faster rate than
GDP. The much reduced supplies of raw materials and spare parts to the
import-dependent industrial sector led to widespread plant closures, a
substantial drop in capacity utilization (at present about 35 to 40
percent) and extensive layoffs of the work-force. Severe shortages of
imported goods gave a sharp boost to prices -- with the inflation rate
reaching 40 percent in 1984 - with scarcity rents of up to 400 percent for
many essential goods accruing to traders who, unlike manufacturers, were
not subject to price controls.
CHART S
-"'N OIL GDP TMPORTS AND CONSUMER PRrCES
'ANWJAI4 rEPCENTAGE RATES OF C"'ANGE
-   -  -  -
-4e~~~~~~ -~
Q*c   10b-   *¢2   1   .f 1i. 4  1Wmr
9.        Domestic savings halved in real terms due to the decline in both
GDP and the terms of trade, with the savings ratio falling to 16 percent in
1985. The reduction in investment expenditures was also substantial;
investment fell to 12 percent of GDP in 1985, under half the peak level of
1981. The across-the-board public expenditure cutbacks meant further
delays in completing viable projects, thus escalating their costs and
depriving the economy of their benefits. Private investment shrank even
faster than public investment and by 1985 constituted only a quarter of the
total. Between 1980 and 1985, real income per head fell by about
35 percent, bringing it down to the level prevailing just before the oil
boom.



10.       External debt service requirements (including payments on private
debt and rescheduled arrears) increased to 34 percent of exports of goods
and non-factor services in 1985, a tripling since 1982. External medium-
and long-term public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1985 of
US$12.8 billion included a total of US$1.3 billion in promissory notes
issued in respect to pre-1984 uninsured trade arrears and US$0.4 billion in
rescheduled letters of credit (see Annex iI, Table 1). In addition,
insured trade arrears of US$2.3 billion were also outstanding, along with
an estimated US$1.8 billion (including accumulated interest) in uninsured
trade arrears not yet recognized by the Government. Current letters of
credit outstanding were estimated at US$1.0 billion.
C. Policy Initiatives
11.       In the face of a weak oil market and mounting debt service
burden, the new military Government that came to power in August 1985
recognized that demand management policies alone would be insufficient to
restore internal and external balance. It accordingly declared its intent
to move from "austerity alone to austerity with structural adjustment" and
to seek support from the international financial community to ease the
burden imposed by the unfavorable debt maturity profile. A major policy
breakthrough came with the announcement of the new Government's 1986
budget. Key reforms included the removal of the financial subsidy on
energy products (which increased the prices of petro' about 100 percent,
diesel 170 percent and fuel oil 250 percent) and a commitment to phase out
the fertilizer subsidy. In addition, a temporary import surcharge of 30
percent across-the-board was introduced to serve as an implicit devaluation
on the import side, and the foreign exchange retention allowance for
non-oil exports was raised to 25 percent. Other announcements in the early
months of the new Government included the intention to establish a limited
second-tier market for foreign exchange, to improve export incentives, to
cut substantially transfers of public funds to parastatals, to privatize
commercially-oriented public enterprises, and to dismantle the agricultural
commodity marketing boards. These actions and resolutions affirmed the
Government's intention to address the fundamental structural weaknesses in
the economy.
PART II - THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
12.       The sharp fall in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986
increased the urgency of reform. Recognizing this, the Government
formulated a structural adjustment program covering the period from
July 1986 to June 1988. The program, building on the Government's earlier
initiatives, is broadly based, combining exchange rate and trade policy
reforms with overall macroeconomic restraint. It also lays considerable
stress on shrinking the size of the public sector and improving its
efficiency. The program was prepared with Bank and IMF staff assistance
and was approved by the Government in June. Implementation is already
underway. The Government is now seeking the financial support of its
official and commercial creditors, as well as the Bank. The main features



- 6 -
of the macroeconomic program are summarized below. Projections of
macroeconomic indicators, the federal government budget, and the ba3ance of
payments are presented in Annex II.
A. Exchange Rate and Trade Policies
13.       The core of the program is the move towards a market-determined
exchange rate and the associated dismantling of import controls. To this
end, the Government has undertaken to set up a viable and substantial
second-tier foreign exchange market (SFEM). This is to be accompanied by
progressive downward adjustments of the official (i.e., first tier) rate,
with the aim of reaching a single market-determined exchange rate free of
administrative controls. In conjunction with the opening of SFEM, due to
take place before the end of October, the Dresent systems of import
licensing and ex-factory price controls are to be abolished. The
Government is also to implement changes in the system of protection and a
package of export incentive measures. Details of the exchange and trade
policy measures being supported by the loan are contained in Part III.
B. Monetary Policy
14.       Monetary policy plays a dual role in the adjustment program.  For
demand management purposes, monetary policy is to remain tight over the
program period in order to minimize inflationary pressures that could
otherwise fuel excessive demand for foreign exchange on the second tier
market. To this end, domestic -redit policy is to be restrained, with net
domestic credit of the banking system projected to grow by only 7.5 percent
in 1986 and 4.5 percent in 1987. But monetary policy is also to be an
integral part of the program's supply side, involving movements toward a
more market oriented financial system designed to facilitate the
mobilization of financial savings and to encourage the more efficient
allocation of financial resources. In addition, in view of the importance
of liberalizing interest rate policy in conjunction with the establishment
of the second-tier market, interest rates are to be progressively
decontrolled.
C. Fiscal Policy
15.       Fiscal policy combines a restrictive stance with measures to
improve efficiency. Fer the former, the adjustment program aims at keeping
the federal budget deficit below 4 percent of GDP (Annex II, Table 2). But
in pursuing this target, certain general principles designed to enhance the
effectiveness of public spending are to guide the Federal and State
Governments in their budgetary and planning decisions. First, restraint on
the growth of the federal wage bill is to be maintained, with nominal wage
increases held to 10 percent in 1987 and federal government employment
reduced by 5 percent through a combination of attrition and an extension of
the freeze on hiring. Second, material supplies are to be increased to
ensure adequate maintenance of infrastructure. Third, as announced in the
1986 budget, non-statutory transfers to all economic and quasi-economic
parastatals are to be limited to no more than half their 1985 levels, with
transfers to fully commercially-oriented parastatals to be eliminated by



- 7 -
the end of the program period. Fourth, projects with established economic
viability and proportionately low completion costs are to be finished
expeditiously. Finally, new projects are to be undertaken on an
exceptional basis and only if they are deemed to be essential for the
economic recovery process and their funding is fully assured.
D. Federal Capital Expenditures
16.       Nigeria cannot afford many of the ambitious and costly projects
begun during the period of peak oil revenues. Indeed, under the program,
the ceiling on capital expenditures in 1986 is only N3.3 billion, about
two-thirds the originally budgeted amount, which had been predicated on a
much more favorable oil price assumption. Within the total, the Government
is according priority to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
assets and the timely completion of economically viable projects, with
increased attention to cost recovery. The rationale for the allocation of
federal public capital expenditure across sectors is to derive principally
from the relative importance of the different sectors in the Government's
development strategy. The revised sectoral allocations (Annex II, Table 3)
have taken account of the Bank's sector and macroeconomic work and its
recent reviews of the Government's expenditure programs. Compared with the
1981-85 period, the new sectoral allocations show a considerably reduced
emphasis on industry and increased emphasis on social and physical
infrastructure. The ceiling on public investment is forecast to remain
unchanged in nominal terms in 1987, implying a substantial decline in real
terms. But at this stage, both the totals and the sectoral allocations for
1987 are indicative; the final shares are to be established in the context
of the 1987 budget exercise to be conducted later this year.
17.       Within the capital expenditure program, the critical areas of
concern are infrastructure, agriculture, petrochemicals, and steel.
Capital expenditures on infrastructure and in the social sectors are to be
primarily for the rehabilitation of existing assets. The Bank supported
program of Agricultural Development Projects is to be given priority,
allowing for increased investment in viable small-scale and low-cost
irrigation schemes and adaptive research. Gas infrastructure development
is also to be encouraged to enable power stations and selected industrial
users to substitute gas for more expensive fuel oil, while funding for the
new capital, Abuja, is to be reduced sharply from earlier plans. In
petrochemicals, priority is to be given to the completion of the Phase I
projects but with the necessary restructuring to link them to realistic
market prospects. Preparation and implementation of the proposed
export-oriented Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) project is to proceed only if
purchase contracts can be guaranteed and the project is confirmed tc be
economically viable. Other projects in the oil and gas sectors are to be
reviewed and a strategy mapped out for the further development of the oil
and gas related industries in light of the recent deterioration in
international oil and petrochemical diarkets. Such a review will highlight
possible ways to restructure Phase II of the petrochemical projects in
order to ensure their viability, in addition to exploring further
opportunities for private-sector participation. The constrained fiscal
situation will require scaling down and restructuring of the steel



-8-
development program. The present plan for the completion of Ajaokuta is of
particular concern, given the limited market for its products and its high
costs. In this context, the Government, in collaboration with the Bank, is
undertaking a review of the steel subsector and its major projects.
Pending the completion of this and the petrochemicals review, related
public expenditures are not to exceed the modest 1986 revised budget
levels. The Government is considering all possible options, including
private sector participation, to restructure other ongoing,
capital-intensive industrial projects.
E. Reform of Public Enterprises
18.       The public sector in Nigeria has become seriously overextended,
with more than 100 commercially oriented enterprises at the federal level
alone. The Nigerian Government plans to rationalize and commercialize this
sector as far as possible and to transfer a number of enterprises to the
private sector. This will be a complicated and sensitive process and will
take several years to implement fully; however, the Government intends to
issue guidelines on the modalities of implementation by June 1987. The
government has requested Bank assistance in developing an implementation
program. On present official thinking, enterprises which function in a
fully commercial manner are to be fully privatized. But even for
enterprises that will be only partially privatized, the government will no
longer provide operating subventions, and their future financial needs will
have to be met by the private capital market. Another set of enterprises
will be either partially or fully commercialized: these will continue to be
fully owned by government. Those fully commercialized will be expected to
operate without government operating subventions and support for future
capital development. Enterprises which can generate a fair proportion of
the financial resources needed for operations but will continue to need
some goverL ent support towards operating costs or future capital
investment will be partially commercialized. The final category consists
of purely public institutions. These will continue to be largely funded
from treasury resources butt will, even then, be expected to impose user
charges as appropriate.
19.       The operations of all government enterprises are to be closely
monitored and steps are to be taken to ensure their public accountability
at all times. To this end, the government intends to establish clear terms
and conditions for all future loans to public enterprises and will
formulate a plan for the settlement of outstanding arrears, including those
due to the Federal Government. Guidelines and performance tests for
efficient operation of the parastatals are also to be established.
Measures are to be introduced, designed both to reduce government
intervention in the operations of public enterprises and to prevent their
exploitation of monopoly positions to impose noncompetitive prices on
consumers.



-9-
F. Sectoral Policies
20.       Agriculture.  The major objectives of the government's
agricultural sector policies are to increase production of food, raw
materials, and exportable cash crops; to raise rural employment and
income; and to achieve an optimal regional crop production mix, reflecting
the different comparative advantages of the various agro-ecological zones.
In pursuing these goals, the Government intends to rely on private
initiative and the profit motive as the main catalysts. In order to
strengthen the incentive system, it has terminated the activities of the
Commodity Boards and is in the process of transferring the distribution of
fertilizer and other inputs to private sector channels. Along with the
establishment of a market-determined exchange rate, these actions should
encourage the production of export and import competing crops. Crop prices
will be determined largely by market forces, and the subsidy on fertilizer
has been reduced to less than 30 percent and is now to be fully eliminated
by the end of 1988.
21.       Industry.  Distorted incentives have long encouraged excessive
import dependence in the induscrial sector, which has suffered badly from
the cutbacks in imported raw materials and spare parts over the past few
years. Indeed, for production to recover significantly in the short-term,
a rather sharp injection of imports would be needed. However, in the
medium term, the government's industrial strategy is to reduce import
dependence by accelerating the development and utilization of local
technology, raw materials, and intermediate inputs. The key policy
measures for achieving this objective are the adoption of a realistic and
flexible exchange rate policy that reflects the scarcity of foreign
exchange and ensures its efficient allocation; trade liberalization, to
ensure access to imports where they are really needed; the removal of
ex-factory price controls; and an appropriate tariff structure to promote
an efficient industrial structure. Procedures for establishing enterprises
and for foreign investment approvals are also being liberalized and
streamlined. Under a Bank assisted Industry Technical Assistance Project,
a Policy Analysis Department has been set up in the Ministry of Industries
in collaboration with the Ministry of Planning to implement and keep under
constant review industrial, trade, and export policies.
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan History and Objectives
22.       The proposed loan arose out of discussions between senior offi-
cials of the Government and the Bank during April 1986 on the policy
measures required to stabilize the economy and to return it to a path of
growth. The loan specifically focuses on the second tier foreign exchange
market and on related trade policy reform, including non-oil export
development measures. Additional areas of the adjustment program, such as
public enterprise reforms and public investment programs. will be addressed
through the continued dialogue and other ongoing and proposed operations.



- 10 -
The loan was appraised in May 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington
D.C. from August 25-28, 1986. The Nigerian delegation included the
Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria; the
Director of Budget and the Assistant Director of External Finance from the
Ministry of Finance; and representatives of the Ministries of Trade and
Justice and the Central Bank of Nigeria. Presentation of this loan to the
Board is being made before the full external financing package has been
assembled for Nigeria because of the catalytic role of the proposed loan
and to ensure that the proposed second-tier foreign exchange market is
adequately supported in its initial, crucial period. However, the loan
will not become effective until the Bank receives satisfactory assurances
that Nigeria's external financing needs for 1986 and 1987 will be met.
Supplementary data on the proposed loan are presented in Annex III.
B. Trade and Export Policy Adjustment Program
23.       The program of trade and export policy reforms supported by the
loan is presented in the Government's Letter of Trade Policy (Annex IV).
Two major policy changes under the program that would substantially
increase the reliance on market mechanisms for allocating resources are the
introduction of a market-determined exchange rate and the elimination of
the present system of import licensing. The main features of the trade
policy reforms being supported by this proposed loan are presented below.
Exchange Rate Realignment
24.       The establishment and maintenance of an appropriate exchange rate
is at the heart of Nigeria's structural adjustment program. The exchange
rate realignment is to be accomplished through the establishment of a
second-tier foreign exchange market (para 13), which the proposed loan will
support. The sources of supply of foreign exchange to the second-tier
market are expected to comprise oil export receipts (except the amounts
needed for debt service and official reserves), non-oil export receipts,
new lending by the Bank and overseas commercial banks, remittances, tourism
and capital transfers. Demand in the second-tier market would comprise all
private and public sector payments for imports, remittances and capital
account transactions. Taking into account the latest balance of payment
projections and the expected needs for debt service, it is estimated that
the initial size of the second-tier market could be about US$6 billion
annually.
25.       The exchange rate for transactions in the second-tier market is
to be determined by the supply and demand for foreign exchange. The
foreign exchange would be supplied to the second-tier market by direct
sales of foreign exchange by its earners and holders to authorized foreign
exchange dealers and by sale of oil-export earnings through the Central
Bank of Nigeria to the commercial banks and other dealers. The exchange
rate would be set by direct negotiation between buyers and sellers at
mutually agreed exchange rates that are free to vary from hour to hour and
day to lay. The commercial banks would be free to buy and sell foreign
exchange from each other in an inter-bank market. All requirements for the



- 11 -
surrender of foreign exchange will be abolished except for oil export
receipts. Buying and selling rates would be posted daily for public
information. The decree establishing the second-tier market has been
signed into law and the operational guidelines elaborated; the market is
expected to start in October 1986. The establishment of a second-tier
foreign exchange market with operational features satisfactory to the Bank
is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Trade Policy Reforms
26.       Removal of Import Controls.  At present all imports and exports
are subject to prior licensing or prohibitions. With the launching of the
second-tier foreign exchange market, the import licensing system will be
abolished and the import prohibition list reduced from 74 to 17 items
(mainly food and textiles). It has been agreed that the items remaining on
the import prohibition list will be reviewed in the context of a
comprehensive tariff study which is to be carried out under the loan, as
discussed below.
27.       Restructuring of Tariffs.  With the assistance of the Bank, the
customs tariff and excise duty schedules were simpl'fied and rationalized
in 1984 to reduce significantly the dispersion of effective rates of
protection among products, encourage the use of local raw materials and
increase excise revenues. The current import duty rates cluster between
15 and 60 percent. In addition a 30 percent across-the-board import
surcharge was introduced in January 1986, applicable to all imports.
Excise duty rates are mainly 10 percent with some at 5 or 15 to 20 percent
and a few higher. The introduction of a market-determined exchange rate
would remove the need for the across-the-board surcharge and would enable a
reduction in level of trade taxes. The Government has therefore agreed to:
(a) abolish the 30 percent import surcharge on goods (except selected
luxury goods) passing through the second-tier market prior to effectiveness
of the proposed loan; (b) implement, in conjunction with the launching of
the second-tier market, interim revisions in import duty and excise
schedules which will reduce the average level and dispersion of rates;
(c) carry out, no later than June 30, 1987, a comprehensive tariff study
and formulate proposals for revised customs and excise duty schedules
consistent with the flexible exchange rate policy; and (d) implement a
revised customs and excise duty structure based on the findings of the
study, and taking into account the Bank's comments, by August 31, 1987.
28.       Removal of Price "ontrols.  At present, justification of
ex-factory prices is required in principle for all manufactured goods and,
in practice, ex-factory prices of twenty products are tightly controlled.
Such price controls are ineffective in protecting consumers from retail
price increases; they shift profits from producers to traders and reduce
government revenues by lowering the tax base. The Government recognizes
that the elimination of ex-factory price controls is necessary to enable
producers to operate profitably at the second-tier import prices, and has
agreed to abolish them in conjunction with the second-tier market.



- 12 -
Export Incentive Measures
29.       Since January 1986 the Government has announced a series of
measures for export development (Annex V). These include: (a) reduction
in the list of prohibited exports; (b) simplification of export licensing
procedures; (c) abolition of the six agricultural commodity boards and
their monopoly export powers; (d) Export Incentives and Miscellaneous
Provisions Decree which will provide a set of incentives for exporters,
including most notably a duty drawback scheme and a redlscounting facility
for short-term export loans; (e) introduction of an export credit guarantee
and insurance scheme (including a revolving fund to provide foreign
currency loans to exporters); (f) plans for the reorganization of the
Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) into an autonomous body with
strong private sector participation and strengthened promotion
capabilities; and (g) streamlining and simplification of procedures and
documentation for exports. Measures (a) through (c) have already been
implemented. Two Government committees have formulated proposals on (f)
and (g).
30.       By far the most powerful incentive to exporters would be
unrestricted access to the second-tier market for realizing their export
earnings and meeting their import requirements. Under the arrangements
proposed for the second-tier market (para 25), non-oil exporters would in
effect have 100 percent retention rights since there would be no require-
ment to surrender their earnings. To further encourage the non-oil exports
the Government will abolish the remaining export prohibitions and
significantly reduce export licensing requirements in conjunction with the
launching of the second-tier market. Export licensing will be used only in
exceptional circumstances e.g. health, national security, nature
conservancy, and national cultural heritage. Under the proposed loan,
guidelines for operation of the duty drawback scheme will be issued by end
December 1986, and proposed measures for streamlining and simplification of
export procedures and documentation will be adopted by end September 1986.
Also, guidelines for operation of the scheme for CBN rediscounting of
short-term bills for exporters will be issued by end December 1986. The
reorganized NEPC will formally be established and an organizational
strategy for it finalized by end December 1986.
31.       The Government is considering additional export incentive
measures as well as institutional strengthening for export development.
The proposals under consideration, as well as prospects for non-oil export
development, are discussed in Annex V. The proposed loan would support the
formulation of a longer term strategy and action program for export
promotion and incentives by the NEPC, in consultation with other agencies.
For this purpose, the proposed loan would provide US$1 million to finance
technical assistance and training for selected agencies and staff to enable
them to provide export incentives and promotion services, including
strengthening of the NEPC, implementation of the duty drawback scheme, and
design of export credit schemes (Annex V).



- 13 -
C. Loan Features and Operation
32.       Loan Amount and Complementary Funds.  A US$452 million Bank loan
is proposed to support the establishment and operations of the second-tier
foreign exchange market and the trade policy reforms and export incentive
measures described above. The proceeds of the loan would supplement the
Government's own resources and other external funding to be channelled
through the second-tier market. The Government will provide the bulk of
its oil-export earnings to the second-tier market and is seeking the
support of its commercial creditors to close the projected financing gap in
the balance of payments (para 53). Satisfactory assurances that the
Government's external financing needs for the remainder of 1986 and 1987
will be met is a condition of effectiveness. The proposed Bank loan would
finance about 8 percent of the expected total volume of funds (US$6
billion) expected to be channelled through the second-tier market during
the first 12 months of the market's operations (para 24).
33.       Loan Channelling.  The Government of Nigeria would be the
borrower of the proposed loan, the proceeds of which will be made available
by the Government to the Central Bank of Nigeria. The Central Bank will
administer and disburse the funds, and a project agreement would be
concluded between the Bank and the Central Bank of Nigeria. The Central
Bank will (a) maintain separate accounts to record and monitor
disbursements and repayments; and (b) arrange for an audit of such accounts
by auditors acceptable to the Bank and submit certified copies of the
relevant audited accounts to the Bank within six months of the loan's
effectiveness and then on an annual basis. The auditor's report would
include an opinion on whether satisfactory procedures are in operation at
the Central Bank of Nigeria regarding the use of Statements of Expenditure
(para 36).
34.       Procurement.  The proceeds of the loan will be sold through a
competitive bidding process by the Central Bank of Nigeria to a large
number of banks and other authorized foreign exchange dealers who in turn
would sell it to a large number of beneficiaries. The procurement will be
undertaken by the respective beneficiaries. Since there will be no ex-ante
licensing requirements and no means to identify prospective importers, it
will not be possible to determine intended purchases which may be suitable
for international competitive bidding according to Bank guidelines.
International suppliers are well represented in Nigeria; this, together
with the proposed exchange rate and trade liberalization, should ensure an
internationally competitive market in which the importers can be relied on
to procure their materials and services from the most efficient sources and
to minimize costs. In view of the above, the beneficiaries of the loan
will follow their normal commercial practices for procurement of goods and
services from countries and territories referred to in the Bank's
procurement guidelines. In case of procurement for the public sector
(excluding commercial parastatals), international competitive bidding
according to the Bank's procurement guidelines will be required for
contracts estimated to cost US$5 million or more.



- 14 -
35,       Disbursement of the proposed loan, except the US$2 million
earmarked for technical assistance and sub-sector investment studies, will
be in two tranches. The first tranche of US$250 million will be available
immediately upon effectiveness of the loan while the second tranche of
US$200 million will be released on: (a) release of adequate funds by the
government for the efficient operation of the second-tier market; and
(b) satisfactory progress with respect to implementation of the agreed
trade and export policy reforms, listed in Attachments I and II of the
Government's Letter of Trade Policy (Annex IV).
36.       The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed within a period of
12 months. The loan would provide US$450 million equivalent to finance
100 percent of foreign expenditures for import of eligible goods. The list
of goods ineligible for financing under the proposed loan would comprise
the standard items, i.e. imported crude oil, luxury goods, goods for
military and para-military uses, and uranium. The remaining US$2 million
of the loan proceeds would be made available by the Government to
(a) selected export promotion agencies to finance technical assistance and
training (para 31), and (b) carry out subsector studies to help rationalize
the Government's public investment program. Contracts for less than
US$100,000 in value (except for technical assistance and studies) would not
be eligible for reimbursement. All disbursements will be fully documented
with the exception of reimbursement applications related to contracts of
less than US$2 million, which would be disbursed on the basis of statements
of expenditure and for -which the supporting documentation would be retained
by the Central Bank of Nigeria. To facilitate rapid execution of the
project, the Bank would, upon loan effectiveness, make an initial deposit
of US$100 million in a Special Account which would cover estimated
disbursements over a two to three month period. Retroactive financing of
up to US$45 million equivalent would be provided to cover eligible
expenditures made prior to the sign'ng of the proposed loan but after
September 1, 1986.
D. Monitoring
37.       The Government has undertaken to monitor closely the policies and
measures enunciated in the adjustment program. Periodic targets and
specific tasks have been assigned to various Ministries and Agencies to
ensure that performance keeps pace with program expectations. In addition,
a Monitoring Unit, comprised of staff of the Cabinet Office and the Finance
and National Planning Ministries, will be established to oversee the
implementation of the program. The Unit will prepare and submit to the
Bank on a quarterly basis data on key indicators of progress made on
(a) the trade and export policy measures being supported by the loan;
(b) the public investment operations, and (c) the operations of the
second-tier foreign exchange market. The first such report covering the
period to the end of 1986 would be submitted in January 1987. In addition,
the Bank will monitor the progress through regular supervision and exchange
of views with the Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria and through
consideration of subsequent policy-based loans.



- 15 -
E. Role of the Bank and the IMF
38.       In 1983, the Government began discussions with the IMF on a
possible drawing under the Extended Fund Facility (Nigeria had not s0 far
made use of IMF resources in the credit tranches). In April of the same
year, the Bank began discussions with the Government regarding elements of
a possible medium-term adjustment program that could be supported by
structural adjustment loans. The policy measures recommended by the Bank
and the IMF were complementary. Indeed, many of the structural elements of
the proposed Fund program were drawn from the numerous sector studies
already carried out by the Bank. During 1983-85, discussions between the
IMF and the Government made little progress, although Bank involvement
continued, particularly vis a vis the rationalization of the public sector
investment program. The Government has recently reached agreement with
Fund management on a program for 1986 and 1987.
39.       Bank and IMF staff wili continue to work together in providing
the Government technical assistance in managing the adjustment. effort. In
this regard, the IMF's concentration will be an the operation and
modalities of the second-tier exchange market, and in monitoring fiscal and
monetary policies. The Bank will assist the Government in designing and
monitoring of the accompanying trade liberalization measures, including the
tariff and incentive policies, the public investment program, and sectoral
policies. The staffs of the two organizations will continue to share
information and coordinate actions and recommendations throughout the
period of the loan.
PART IV - PROGRAM EFFECTS AND IMPLICATIONS
40.       The austerity package pursued by the previous Govern ent in 1984
and 1985 surfaced quite dramatically the basic source of imbalance in the
economy, viz., the simultaneous excess supply of labor and excess demand
for foreign exchange. While it will clearly be important to continue to
strengthen programs designed to reduce population growth -- currently
estimated at 3.3 percent per anvut -- the essential challenge for the
Government will be to maintain an overall economic policy
environment in which job creation proceeds apoce with labor force growth,
in a manner consistent with the external financial constraints. The key
will be the maintenance of an exchange rate policy that will permit exports
to grow sufficiently fast to finance an adequate rate of growth of imports
combined with the efficient channeling of limited domestic and foreign
savings into productive investments. The policy reforms envisaged in the
adjustment program, and supported by the proposed loan, represent major
steps toward these objectives. If successfully implemented, they promise
to deliver considerable benefits, both for the short to medium-run
adjustment process and for the longer-run development process.
A. Economic Effects
41.       The adjustment program is likely to have wide ranging effects.
At the microeconomic level, the new policies will correct the distortions



- 16 -
in relative prices caused by the overvalued naira and reduce the frequency
of ad hoc government interventions in the market place; relative
profitability should more closely mirror underlying comparative advantages,
causing a convergence of private and social perceptions of opportunity
costs and an associated improvement in efficiency. On the macroeconomic
level, an exchange rate considerably below the official rate is expected to
emerge. With the pass-through into prices and wages generally expected to
be much less than the nominal depreciation, a very substantial depreciation
in the real exchange rate should remain. Much of the effect of the
depreciation has already been embodied in prices, as scarcities deriving
from import restrictions Lave taken their toll -- witness the steep jump in
prices in 1984. In addition, excessive price pressure is unlikely to find
monetary accommodation in the program. An inflation rate of 20 percent is
forecast for 1987 (Annex II, Table 4).
42.       Real non-oil GDP is forecast to grow by 3 percent in 1987, thus
recovering the ground lost in 1986. While a rather stronger recovery is
forecast for imports, it is the expectation that a large part if these will
be needed to replenish depleted stocks. For the rest of the 1980s and the
early 1990s, growth in non-oil GDP approaching 4 percent per annum appears
broadly consistent with import levels growing by 3 percent per annum in
real terms. Such a profile allows for very modest increases in per capita
GDP and per capita consumption. Measured in current prices, investment
throughout the rest of the 1980s is expected to average around 14 percent
of GDP, with a higher ratio of private to public investment resulting from
the improved incentive system and more favorable investment climate.
Despite the lower rate of investment compared with previous years, GDP
growth is expected to resume based on the considerable scope for increasing
output through better utilization of existing productive capacity; the
greater selectivity with respect to public investments; and the
improvements in the productivity of private and public investment that are
likely to follow the policy reforms outlined earlier. The domestic savings
rate would average around 13 percent of GDP; public savings over the rest
of the 1980s are slightly less than public investment but are expected to
exceed them in the early 1990s. The freeing up of interest rates will be
important in the encouragement of private sector savings. Improved revenue
mobilization, control over public expenditures, and reform of the
parastatals should improve public sector savings performance.
43.       The success of the adjustment program will rest on the ability of
the economy to expand the production of exports and import substitutes so
as to increase the foreign exchange available for the purchase of key
imports essential for growth. Consistent with this, the program foresees
important changes in the agricultural and industrial sectors, with the
former growing at an annual rate of over 3.5 percent (compared with under
2 percent over the 1980-85 period) and the latter at over 8 percent
compared with a negative growth over the 1980-85 period (Annex II, Table
4). In the near term, the increase in non-oil exports will primarily come
from the channellirg of all non-oil exports through the second-tier market,
a fairly significant portion of which are currently exported illegally. In
view of this, rapid growth of agricultural and industrial exports --



- 17 -
averaging some 20 percent per annum -- is anticipated, albeit from a very
small base (Annex V).
Agriculture
44.       The proposed exchange rate and trade policy reforms are
fundamental to the continued recovery of the agricultural sector and its
sustained contribution to the adjustment effort. Indeed, over the medium
term the net effect of the exchange rate depreciation, combined with the
reduction in bans and tariffs, will be to encourage a more efficient
allocation of resources and a shift away from the production of
non-tradeable crops to that of tradeable crops. A rather more immediate
effect should be a boost in the incentive to export. In turn, this should
spark increased production of cocoa and cocoa products, which already
account for two thirds of Nigeria's non-oil exports, and possibly of
rubber, as considerable excess capacicy exists. However, after the initial
revival, there is likely to be a substantial hiatus before growth picks up
again, because both cocoa and rubber have aging tree populations and it
will take time to re-establish an inventory of high-producing trees. In
terms of other products, exports of maize and sorghum to neighboring
countries are possible over the near term, and vegetables and fresh fruits
could develop into foreign exchange earners in the longer term.
45.       With respect to import substitutes, the picture is more
complicated. Many farmers have been enjoying excessivc protection in
recent years because their output prices have been held up by scarcities
arising from import restrictions, while the prices of their imported inputs
have been kept down via the overvalued naira. Indeed, for a wide range of
food crops, the move to a freer trade regime may mean an initial
deterioration in profits. This will be the case where the removal of
quantitative restrictions invites an increase in competitive imports, such
that the higher input prices on fertilizer, pesticides, and machinery are
not matched by increases in output prices. Nevertheless, over the medium
term there is likely to be a shift away from import-intensive techniques
and mechanized forms of production towards more labor-intensive techniques.
In addition, a relative shift -- albeit at the margin -- towards more
labor-intensive activities, such as tree crops, cotton, and livestock, is
likely to occur. Imported wheat and sugar are unlikely to be replaced
fully by local production, because Nigeria cannot produce these crops
economically.
Industry
46.       Manufacturing growth in the near term is dependent to a large
extent on the availability of raw material imports; however, over the
longer term, Nigeria's comparative advantage in industry is likely to be
more broadly based. Indeed, its endowment of supply factors (a diversified
agricultural and mineral resource base), demand factors (the large domestic
market and, by African standards, relatively high income levels), and
catalytic factors (a sizeable and dynamic cadre of indigenous
entrepreneurs) is favorable. And with the restoration of an appropriate
exchange rate, Nigeria should be well placed to capitalize on its potential



- 18 -
for industrial development. On the expo-t side, consumer items should be
profitable -- with agro-based industries providing the upstream inputs.
Diversification into LNG and LPG should serve to strengthen the industrial
base and broaden exports during the 1990s. On the import substitution
side, more realistic pricing of imports of capital equipment and spare
parts should encourage a range of intermediate and engineering/repair
industries. There are also a number of consumer products for which
domestic installed capacity is substantially less than domestic demand.
The potential for an efficient supply response in manufacturing would also
depend crucially upon the rationalization and restructuring of major
projects in the public sector. In some instances, timely completion could
result in a significant contribution to manufacturing output. In others,
such as steel and petrochemicals, restructuring will be essential to avoid
high-cost production adversely affecting downstream industries.
B. Socia]. Impact
47.       The social impact of the adjustment program needs to be evaluated
in terms of the evolution of policy from "austerity alone to austerity with
structural adjustment." Under austerity alone, the foreign exchange
constraint was met through a tightening of aggregate demand coupled with
import controls to prevent any spillover into the balance of payments. The
attendant decline in economic activity reduced per capita real income in
1985 to the levels broadly prevailing before the oil boom; without the
adjustment program, the decline was projected to continue and even worsen,
given developments in oil prices in 1986. A key aspect of the contraction
was the rise in unemployment and underemployment, but labor was further
injured by a steep erosion of purchasing power, as the import controls were
unable to prevent increases in consumer prices for imported goods. With
fairly flat nominal wage developments over the period, real wages fell;
however, these real wage decreases did not induce increases in labor
demand, because of the effects of the austerity measures and the overvalued
exchange rate.
48.       Under "austerity with structural adjustment", a rise in real per
capita income and consumption over the period 1987-1995 is likely. While
demand restraint will perforce need to continue, a major impact of the
exchange rate aspects of the adjustment program is expected to be on the
level of employment.  Jith the exchange rate depreciation, export
profitability will improve; as such, the demand for labor should increase,
although the pace at which labor can be taken up depends on a variety of
factors. Activity levels are low at present, but spare capacity is most
available in activities heavily dependent on imports and in non-traded
goods sectors. The former are unlikely to revive significantly under the
program, and the latter will depend on the course of income generated in
other sectors. A basic question thus concerns the speed of adjustment at
which agriculture and other non-oil export production can expand and absorb
workers. In agriculture, this means reversing the previous out-migration
from riral areas. While this process has been underway since the inception
of the austerity program, it should now receive a boost as profitability in
the sector rises, permitting increases in remunerations and thereby
enhancing the attractiveness of rural employment. In manufacturing,



- 1.9 -
considerable rationalization and retooling of existing capacity may be
needed in view of the large change in the relative prices of labor and
foreign exchange.
49.       The speed at which new capacity and jobs can be created is thus
affected by the magnitude of resources for investment channelled to the
expanding sectors. In turn, this is determined by the overall level of
foreign savings available to the economy; the degree to which domestic
savings can be transformed into imports for investment purposes; and the
efficiency with which financial and capital markets can ensure the
effective intermpdiation of the resulting financial flows to entrepreneurs
responding to the new price and profitability signals. However, each of
these is improved under the program compared with austerity alone. The
austerity alternative implied little new money from foreign creditors; the
flow of imports was lower, hence potential investment was lower. Moreover,
the transformation of domestic savings into foreign exchange was less
effiritent, since the overvalued exchange rate discouraged non-oil exports.
Finally, with regard to financial intermediation, the program includes some
first steps toward enhanced effectiveness, but a close watch will have to
be kept on this critical link in the adjustment process to see what further
changes are needed.
50.       Although on balance the effect of the program is expected to be
strongly positive, some individuals and sectors will suffer. Within the
urban sector, for example, employment and incomes of those dependent on the
public sector are likely to decline in real terms, although incomes derived
from the private manufacturing sector are likely to increase. Within the
private sector, there is likely to be a shift away from trading activities
towards manufacturing activities, where growth prospects are brighter. A
shift is also expected away from import-dependent activities towards
small-scale, labor-intensive industries. In rural areas, the most
important impact of the adjustment program is likely to derive from the
improved incentives for export crops, with the cocoa and rubber producers
in the south of Nigeria benefitting significantly. Other sectors could
suffer an initial deterioration as rising prices for imported inputs may
not be matched by equivalent increases in output prices. However, over the
medium run, the effect should be positive, as higher overall income growth
boosts domestic demand.
51.       The relaxation and simplification of exchange and trade controls
should also have important social effects. Clearly, administrative and
enforcement costs will be reduced, thus freeing resources for more
productive uses. But perhaps a more important factor is that complex,
highly controlled exchange systems tend to introduce costly arbitrariness
and uncertainty into the allocation of foreign exchange. Resources are
expended to influence and to predict administrative decisions and users of
foreign exchange are forced to deal in parallel markets. The willingness
of different economic agents to participate in such activities affects the
ultimate allocation of foreign exchange, which in turn reduces the
efficiency of domestic resource allocation. With relaxation and
simplification of exchange restrictions, therefore, the economy can be
expected to operate with greater economic efficiency. Nonetheless, the



- 20 -
benefits and impact of the associated improvement in potential welfare will
not be distributed equally, with the economic agents who had benefited from
the exchange controls suffering large losses under the program.
C. Financing
52.       The financing needs of the adjustment program are substantial.
Bank and Fund staff have worked closely with Government to determine the
financing gap and to put together a feasible financing plan. The
preliminary balance of payments projections and assessment of the financing
gap (Annex II, Table 5) discussed in this report are based on three
assumptions:
(a) the world oil market is unlikely to recover quickly and in any
case will remain subject to considerable uncertainty;
(b) Government wishes to ensure the repayment of genuine and
authenticated outstanding debts in an orderly manner; and
Cc) access to international capital markets will be constrained for
some time to come.
All of these assumptions call for restraint in planning import levels. In
1986, imports of goods are likely to be down to a level of at most
US$5.4 billion, representing a drop of over 35 percent in real terms from
the already compressed level of 1985. Imports of US$6.0 billion are
envisaged for 1987.
53.       For 1986 and 1987 taken together, the projected current account
deficits, scheduled maturities, and the requirement to make settlements on
outstanding arrears lead to an estimated balance of payments financing gap
of US$10.9 billion. In turn, this will require reschedulings of Paris and
London Club debts, bilateral credits, and trade arrears. New loan
commitments will also be needed. The assumptions used here imply
reschedulings of US$9.1 billion -- including capitalized interest due to
officially insured suppliers and Letters of Credit and US$1.5 billion in
arrears incurred in 1986 on uninsured Letters of Credit. New commercial
and official or officially guaranteed credits are projected to reach
US$1.2 billion, while disbursements from the Bank on adjustment policy
loans are forecast at $0.7 billion.
54.       There will be a need for further reschedulings and new money
beyond 1987. Under conservative oil price assumptions -- rising from
US$13 per barrel in 1987 to US$16 per barrel in 1990 and US$22 per
barrel in 1995 -- and an assumed real import growth of somewhat over
3 percent, external debt would continue to grow until 1991, when
conditions would begin to ease. On these assumptions, Nigezia could begin
to pay down its debt and to rebuild reserves starting in 1992. The debt
service ratio would be about 30 percent in 1995. In making these central
case projections, it is assumed that, in the event of a limited and
temporary shortfall in foreign exchange earnings, reserves would be drawn
down and/or external borrowing could be marginally increased. If, on the
other hand, the decline in earnings were not expected to be short-lived,



- 21 -
the Government would need to take further adjustment measures. Additional
earnings beyond the projected levels could be used to finance higher import
growth and pay down debt. Indeed, under more favorable oil price
assumptions - with t,ie price for Nigerian crude reaching US$19 per barrel
in 1990 and US$26 per barrel in 1995 -- an average rate of real import
growth of 6 percent over the period would be consistent with a drop in the
debt service ratio to about 15 percent in 1995.
D. Risks
55.       The principal risks associated with the proposed loan and the
adjustment program it supports emanate from its far-reaching nature. There
is thus the consequent need to develop a broad-based constituency for the
reforms that will be able to withstand the many points of resistance that
are likely to arise. The introduction of a market-determined exchange rate
is expected to result in a sudden and rapid depreciation of the naira,
generating possibly strong pressures on the Government to interfere with
the market. In turn, the depreciation will raise some production costs and
may intensify pressures for wage and price increases in some sectors. The
substantial trade liberalization being proposed is also likely to meet
considerable opposition from those currently benefitting from excess
protection or from quota rents on scarce goods and those engaged in
Implementing administrative controls. Since it will clearly take longer
than two years to complete the structural adjustment process, a key to the
sustained execution of the adjustment process will lie in the continued
political momentum of the Government to implement the proposed and
follow-up reforms. In this respect, the level of imports and the
associated rates of growth of GDP and consumption and employment will
clearly be critical factors. Support from the international financial
community will thus be an essential ingredient in the success of the
program.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
56.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1986 amounted to
US$2,760.2 million (net of cancellations). The amount of loans and credits
disbursed as of March 31, 1986 was US$1,710.4 million, leaving an undis-
bursed balance of US$1,049.8 million. Agriculture accounts for about
43 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply
together for about 35 percent; and education, industry, urban, health, and
the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 22 percent. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, totalling US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made six loans to borrowers totalling US$25.0
million, and six equity investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of these
amounts, US$6.3 million have been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.
57.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil and the
corresponding decline in public revenues, many of the ongoing projects have
run into serious problems of counterpart funding. The Bank, the Federal



- 22 -
Government, and the relevant state governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. To speed up disbursements, the Bank reallo-
cated the proceeds of several loans and increased disbursement percentages.
Working within very severe and continuiing resource constraints, the Federal
and the State Governments are instilling a greater degree of discipline in
their budgeting process and cutting back on new capital expenditure in
order to fund existing obligations.
58.       A number of important policy changes are to be introduced under
the adjustment program (Part II).  To support these far reaching changes,
the Bank's lending program would be increased to include about one-half of
the lending in the form of quick disbursing policy based loans. These
would include a second trade policy loan followed by further adjustment
loans. At the same time, the Bank will continue to support efforts to
raise the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the
incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank
will continue to provide support for agriculture and rural development with
an emphasis on institution-building and transfer of technology, in order to
raise the standard of living of its population, particularly the rural
poor. The Bank will similarly support a well-balanced and integrated
development of Nigeria's industrial sector focusing on import-substitution
and in the medium-term, on non-oil exports.  This approach will entail a
combination of intensive sector work and policy dialogue with the
Goverrment, as well as Bank assistalnce in the industrial and financial
sectors.
59.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
togetl1 r should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure.
There are opportunities for the Bank to make a significant contribution in
energy development and highway maintenance particularly once the Government
announced its decision in January 1986 to substantially increase petroleum
product prices. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending to
education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher training
would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the
Federal and State Governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to
the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of
rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed through urban development
lending focussed on the needs of the urban poor and resource mobilization
for urban areas. The Bank is also assisting the Government in tackling the
country's health problems with a project aimed at both Federal and state
(Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a dialogue with the Government on
population issues, perhaps leading to lending in this area.
60.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million
in FY78 to nearly US$284 million in FY86, Nigeria's disbursement perfor-
mance has lagged behind that cf other countries in the region. The undis-
buzsed balance now stands at 38 percent of some US$2.8 billion in loans and
credits approved. One of the reasons for this development is the rapid
expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that
the closing dates for a number of large loans, with relatively large,



- 23 -
planned disbursements during the early years, were extended during this
period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases, however, dis-
bursements have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and
institutional and management problems. Recently, the inadequate counter-
part funding of projects by the Federal and State Governments, resulting
from lower oil revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The Federal
Government, with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now
carefully monitoring loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems
early and taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has taken a series of
measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new
projects (para. 66) which are showing results.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Direc-
tors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
September 19, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-24-                                    Page 1 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
NIGERIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Molt
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate   S-S Africa       NA & ME
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)    923.8        923.8      923.8
Agricultural (% of total)         52.3        54.8       55.6
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                                      730.0      1025.3      1136.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)        58490.0    71274.t   96485.1
Urban pop. (% of total)           14.7        17.5       23.0        33.t       49.3
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        2.5        2.8         2.9        2.8
Urban                                        4.7        5.2         4.8        4.1
Life expect. at birth (yrs)       41.5        44.7      *49.6        51.0       59.9
Population projections:
Pop. In 2000 (mill)                                   163.5
Stationary pop. (mill)                                528.1
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land             121.2       140.8      187.8        45.6      105.2
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                        46.4        47.3       48.1        46.2       43.9
15-64 yrs                       51.3       50.3        49.4       51.0        52.7
65 and above                     2.3         2.4        2.5         2.8        3.4
Crude birth rate (per thou)       51.4        50.5       49.6        46.3       39.5
Crude death rate (per thou)       22.8        20.0       16.4        15.6       10.4
Total fertility rate               6.9         6.9        6.9         6.4        5.6
Infant mort. rate (per thou)    178.5        145.6      110.4       103.2       94.0
Child death rate (per thou)       33.0        28.6       21.4        17.6        12.1
Fa1ily planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)                    24.6
Users (X of married women)                              5.0         7.1       27.2
FOOD. HEALTH AD MJTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 a 100)           119.4        97.8       94.3        88.3       89.1
Per capita supply of:
Calories (M of requirmnts)      95.6        90.8       85.7        94.2       117.5
Proteins (grams per day)        51.8        48.1       41.8        50.6       76.2
Pop, per physician (thou)         45.0        30.4       12.0 a      11.3        4.6
Pop. per nurse (thou)              4.1         5.1        3.0 a       2.6         1.3
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)       2.4         1.7         1.6 b      1.4        0.7
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                                          45.8       71.3
Urban                                         70.5       94.9
Rural                                         35.0       53.6



-25 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
1986  SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA  SHEET
NIGERIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965        1973    Estimate   S-S Afrfca       NA & ME
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        23645.2    27160.7    33986.4
Female (X)                       41.3        40.7        40.0        37.5        11.4
Agriculture  %)                  721         70.2        68.2 a      59.4        39.2
Industry (%)                     10.2        10.8        11.6 a      14.8        25.7
Participation rate tX)
rotal                            40.4        38.1        35.2        36.2        25.8
Male                             48.1        45.8        42.8        45.8        45.3
Female                           32.9        30.7        27.8        26.7         5.9
Age dependency ratio                1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         0.9
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total
Urban                                         4.7
Rural
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban                            81.3        42.4
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   32.0        37.0                    98.5        93.5
Male                   39.0        47.0                   107.8       107.1
Femle                  24.0        27.0                    90.7        79.7
Secondary: Total                  5.0         4.0                    21.0       44.7
Male                  7.0         6.0                    28.5        52.9
Female                3.0         3.0                    16.9        35.5
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                          33.4        38.8                    42.5       29.4
Secondary                        17.8        27.8                    27.7        19.5
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                                            80.8        75.9
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. 4AN POVERTY
Energy consurpt ion per cap.
(kg of ol equivalent)              34.5        52.9       129.2       530.7      719.9
Percentage of private tncome
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%
Lowest 20%7
Lowest 40%
Est. absolute poverty income
l-vel (USS per capita):
Urban                                                   696.0      689.6
Rural                                                   341.0      338.1
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty Income level (%)
Urban                              ..          ..
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.            1.0         2.1          ,,        36.0       10.2
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)           6.7         3.0         5.3        7.4        35.3
EPD Jul y 1986
Not availableb1
Note: Group av@ea are popubilon weighted. Countiry coverage depends on dmls avaIlabilitv end is not uniteor. Unsen UoiMerw
oted. 1965 reign to any year between 1962 and 196 1973 between 1970 and 197&k and molt recent estimael beiween 192 snd lag
a. 19M. b. i979.



-26-                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
Definitions of Social Indicators
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Infant (age 0-1) mortality rate - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over   per thousand live births who die before reaching one
time. For instance, different countries define 'urban  year of age, in a given ycar.
arca" or "safe water" in different ways.          Child (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
or children, age 1-4, per thousand children in the
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                 same age group in a given year. For most developing
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and  countries these data are derived from models using
inland waters.                                    information on infant mortality rates.
Agricuitural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-    Family planning - acceptors, (thousands) - Annual
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and  number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow. as percentage of  ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                             ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married wom-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita esti-    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
mates at current market prices, calculated by the  age who are practising, or whose husbands are
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas.    practising, any form of contraception. Women of
1986.                                             child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49,
although for some countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                   measured for another age group.
Total population - r:id-year (millions)
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different  FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-    Index cffoodproduction per capita (J974 - 76=100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among countries.                             commnodities. Production excludes animal feod and
Population growth rate (percent) - rotal and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-  mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
lions.                                            of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a  trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
newbom  infant would live if prevailing patterns of    Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals,
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were  vegetables, oil seeds, sugarcane and sugar beets,
to stay the same throughout its iife.             livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Population projections                            tion of each country is based on national average
Population in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex, fertility and  Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in the base year 1980, until the population  food supplies available in country per capita per day.
rcaches a stationary state.                       Available supplies comprise domestic production,
Stationary population - The projected population  imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e..    supplies exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agri-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture. quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements were cstimated for
zero.                                              1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Population densizry agricultural land - Population per    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer (100 hectarcs) of agricultural area,    activity and health considering body weights. envi-
Populaiion age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  ronmcntal temperature, age and sex distribution of
years, working age 15-64 years, and people of 65  population.
years and over as percentages of population.      Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand  content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
population.                                       supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Crude dearh ratie - Annual deaths per thousand    all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                       ment of Agriculture provide for minimum allow-
Tt,j.l let,ilitr rate - The average number of children  ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that vu'ulu be born alive to a woman during her    grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime il uuring her childbearing years she werc to    are lower than those of 75 grams of toLal protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertility rates.                 world, as proposed by FAO.



-27-                                       ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population per physician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a    main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
medical school at university level.              included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided    Percentage of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,
by number of practising graduate nurses, assistant    and rural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
Pbpudation per hospital bed - Population divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vate, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Enrollment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments    Primary School Enrollment - total, male andfemale
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
tablishments principally providing custodial care am  percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                     many countries consider primary school age to be
Access to safe water (percentage ofpopulation) - total.   6-11 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban, and rural- People (total, urban, and rural) with    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontarninated    countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and    may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable    Secondary School Enrollment - total, male and
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable access    female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in  vocational, or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent and incomplete responses, and    years of age.
large variations between countries, may affect the  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and    students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition, certain definitions    number of teachers.
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-  Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percen-
able access to safe water in rural areas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sourcs (when they are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect comparability of the data.       INCOME, CONSUMPnION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                       Ener  consumptionper capita (kzlogroms of oil equi-
Total labor force (millions) - EconomicaEly active    valint) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
persons, including armed forces and unemployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
exduding housewives and students. Definitions in    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
various countries ar not comparable.              Private incomn  distribution - Income (both in cash
reniaoe (percent) - Female labor force as a percen-    and kind) accnring to perentile groups of house-
tage of total labor force.                        holds ranked by total household inuome.
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farmiing.    Passenger cars (per thousandpopulation) - Includes
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                    cdudes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of 'daily general interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.                paper," defined as a periodical publication devoted
Participation rate (percent) - total, male, andfemak    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percentage    to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are    Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per
based on International Labour Office (ILO) data on    capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-ex structure of the population.           level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
1564).                                          imate measures of poverty levels, and should be
inLerpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                 v         Estimnated population below absolute poverly income
Average size of household (persons per household) -    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
total, urban, and rural - A household consists of a    populations who live in 'absolute poverty."



-28 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONONIC INDICATORS
6ROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT 1/.                                              ANNUAL RATE OF  lONTHII, Constant Pricgsl
1983               19U4
US1  Din     I    USI Din       2              1975-90    1992     1983      1994
IMP at Market Prices             75.9    100.0      71.7     94.4                3.5      0.4     -B.9      -6.6
GrOs houstic lnvntmot            13.4     17.6       9.6     12.6                6.2    -22.4    -24.5   -27.7
6ross Nmtional Saving             9.9     12.9       6.7      8.9                1.2    -29.6    -23.9    -32.7
Current Account Ulance           -4.8     -6.3      -0.7     -0.9                 -        -         -        -
Exports of G00ds & ifs           10.7     14.1      12.3     16.2                5.5    -29.5       1.5     20.3
lmports of Bauds & nfs           13.9     18.2      10.7     14.2                6.3    -23.1    -22.4    -22.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1993 /b/
Value Added                 Labor Force        Value Added per Urker
US$ Bln     I                 Nl n                        US
Agriculture                               16.9      25.6              20.3      59.3               027
Industry & Mining                         23.1     35.3                6.9      19.8              3350
Services                                  25.7      39.1               7.6      21.9              3361
Total/Average                         65.7    100.0               34.9    100.0               1861
GOVERNMENT FINANCE Ja/
Federal Government
NBi9n        As   of 6DP
1995              1985
Current Receipts                                     8.6              11.6
Current Expenditure                                  7.5              10.1
Current Surplus                                      1.1               1.5
Capital Expenditure and Net Lending                  3.4               4.6
Deficit                                            -2.3               -3.1
NONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1979     1900     1981      1982     1983     1984      1905
(Percentages)
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                               11.8     10.0     20.8      7.7      23.2     39.6      5.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        3.0      4.4     84.1     59.3      50.3     15.0      4.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      14.7     32.9     34.3      17.8      8.6      4.0      5.9
Honey L Ouasi Honey                               28.1      46.1      9.0       8.7     14.7     11.5      10.3
Honey & Quasi Honey as I GDP                       24.0      29.8     31.9      33.0     35.2     39.5      37.2
Note: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
lal Based on the 6overnment Budget estimates, IMF data, and IhRD Staff estimates.
Jb/ Derived from planning documen;s and refers to the number of gainfully employed.
21-Sep-86



- 29 -                                              ANNEX I
Page  6 of 6
TRADE PAYIENTS Al CAPITAL FLOINS
MLAICE DF PAYIENTS lal                                                      hERCHIANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1983-85)
1982     1993      1984     1995                               USS Bln      X
(Billions US S I                   Crude Oil              11.2      95.9
Cocoa Products         0.37      3.2
Exports of Goods, nfs            12.6      10.7     12.3      12.9          Palo Products          0.01       0.1
Imports of Goads, nfs            18.4      13.9     10.7       9.9          Rubber                 0.02       0.2
Others                 0.07      0.6
Interest Paymnts (net)           -0.5      -0.9     -1.6     -1.6                Total             11.7    100.0
Other factor Payunts (net)       -0.5      -0.4     -0.3      -0.3
Net Transfers                    -0.4      -0.4     -0.3      -0.3          EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1995 Jb/
Bklance on Current account       -7.2      -4.9     -0.7       0.8                                        USS Bln
Direct Foreign Investmnt          0.4       0.4      0.2       0.4          Total Debt Including
Undisbursed                   21.85
Net Official Borrowing            3.0       1.3      0.6      -0.2
Di sursment                      3.6       2.3      1.8       1.6          Total Outstanding and
Adortization                    -0.6      -0.9     -1.3      -1.7            Disbursed                     18.45
of which Non-Guaranteed
Other Capital (net)               0.4      -0.2     -0.1       0.4           Private Debt                    0.42
Errors and Omissions             -1.1      -1.9      O.E    -0.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1985
Overall Balance                  -4.5      -5.3      0.7       1.01
Reerve lovements(Incr.-)          2.4       0.6     -0.5     -0.3
Total tLT                       32.5
Fuel and Related Material                                                   Non-Guaranteed Private
Imports                                                                     Debt                             1.8
of which: Mineral Fuels         0.3       0.2      0.1      0.2
Exports                                                                    Total Outstanding and           -
of which: Petroleum            11.9       9.9     11.6     12.2            Disbursed                       34.3
EXCHANGE RATE                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING AS OF DECEMBER  31, 19B5
1978  N1.00 = US$1.57                                                                            1IRD       IDA
1979 :NI.00 S USS.66 
1990  If1.00 s USS1.B3                                                 Outstanding L Disbursed    1.27       0.03
1991  1N1.00 = US$1.63                                                 Undisbursed                 1.01
1982: IN1.00   US$I.49
1983  111.00 = US$1.39                                                 Outstanding Includinq      ---
1994: N11.00 = US$1.31                                                  Undisbursed                2.28     0.03
1995 : 1.00 = USS1.12
/a/ 1IRD and IMF Staff estimates.
/b/ Including short-ter loans; assumed Central Bank liability of private sector arrears;
and current letters of credit.



-30 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
Table 1: NIGERIA - External Public Debt 1/
(Millions of US$)
1982      1983       1984       1985
London Club (Commercial Banks)                 5977       6463      5745       4560
Medium-and Long-Term                           4278       4328      3809       3123
Rescheduled Letters of Credit
Arrears & Rescheduled                        1449       1935      1186        437
Letters of Credit -- Current                    250        200       750       1000
Paris Club (Official and
Officially Insured)                          3246      4858       5260       7277
Medium- and Long-term                          2896       3166      3360       4986
Arrears                                         350       1692      1900       2291
Multilateral:                                   742        884      1097       1317
IBRD                                            674       824       1044       1267
IDA                                              37        36         36         35
European Invest. Bank                            29         22        16         15
African Dev. Bank                                 3          2          1        -
Uninsured Suppliers' Arrears                    350      2762       3070       3100
Unrescheduled                                   350      2762       2813       1800
Rescheduled                                      -         -         257       1300
Short Term                                      120       395        225        110
SAMA                                             -        400        400
Other                                          1160       1479      1477       1664
TOTAL                                          11595      17241     17274      18028
1/ Including assumed liability on private sector arrears, and current
letters of credit to the private sector.



- 31 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
Table 2: Nigeria - Federal Budget 1/ 2/
(Billions of Naira)
1985        1986       1987
Outturn    Forecast  Forecast
Federal Budget:
Revenues                                          8.4         9.5        12.8
Petroleum Revenues                              5.0         4.7         8.8
Other                                            1.9        1.9         3.0
Own Feder- Revenue                               1.5        2.9         1.0
Expenditures                                      10.3       12.2        15.8
Wages and Salaries                               1.5        1.6         1.7
Goods and Supplies                              1.8         2.6         3.7
Domestic Interest Payments                       2.1        2.8         4.2
Foreign Interest Payments                       0.8         1.2         2.3
Capital Expenditures (including
Net Lending to Parastatals)                     3.4         3.3         3.3
Net Lending to States                          -0.3         0.3         -
Other                                           1.0         0.4         0.6
Deficit                                          -2.0        -2.7        -3.1
Memorandum Items:
Deficit as a Percent of GDP                       3.1         3.9         3.1
Oil Price (US$ per barrel)                       27.50       14.10       13.00
Exchange rate (US$ per Naira)
Official (end-year)                             1.00        0.63       0.25
SFEM (average over period)                      ...         0.25       0.25
1/ Totals may not add up because of rounding.
2/ Excludes revenues and expenditures earmarked for investment under
the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation joint venture account.



- 32 -                                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Msble 3: NIIA  - Public; Invesbmt  hLlocatigxu
oercmta  shilres)
1981-83      1984        1985         1986        1987
Revised
Budget      EgeCt        Bbdget     Budget     Forecast
Agriculture & Water Resources      15.0         19.0        22.0       19.2         18.7
Oil & Gas                           7.0         4.0          3.0       10.3         10.5
Transport                          19.0         10.0        10.0       11.2         15.4
Irxlustries                        21.0         21.0        26.0       16.0         14.3
Of Whiich:
Ajcaoita                                                             (5.1)
Power                               3.0         5.0          6.0       3.2           3.7
HamIng & UIban                      8.0          7.0         9.0       5.8           5.7
Of ali&d:
Abuja                                                                (4.5)
Te leam-n wlsicadnog               n.a.           4            6       2.6           2.9
AExatian 1/                         6.0         2.0          4.0       9.6           6.8
Health 1/                           2.0          1.0         1.0       2.2           2.9
c     e.nmme & 5mhancizg            ...21        ... -1      ...       3.2           2.2
M.irng & Quarrying                  ... 2/       ... 2/      ... 2      1.9          2.6
Otber & Unallocated                18.0        25.0         13.0       14.7         14.3
Total                             100.0        100.0       100.0      100.0        100.0
Note: 1/ Health, Fductim (& Water Supply & Satation) inulve prinlipaly State public exlr
whidi are llOt 1inced in this table.
2/ Tnclixli in other & unallocated.



-33-                      .                       ANNEX  II
Page  4 of 6
Table 4. Nigeriai Kly Ibcro-Ecmuic Indicators.
|  :                           I            :          P    R    0   JEE C  T    E    0D
:                                     :U                                                  _    _    _   .    _ _ _       _   _   _   _
A    C    T    U    A    L  I ESTINATED A D J U 9    1N E I T   P O L I C Y   9 C E I A R I 0:
:                                     4   -        --------4-  -- _---                __________---- ___
:1910  19B1  1982  1983  1984 1195  1M6  1987   1990  1If9    1990 M          V E R A8 E   1995 
:                                     :                               :            1                              1987-90 1991-9        :
*           _   _ _   __  _      _  _  I    _ _ _   _   _   _ _    _  I  _ _   __ _I_ _       _   _  _   _   _    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
l(Rtios beloo arm custant/constaat)                                   I            :                                                     :
1kn-Oil UDP/IIR (1                     1 75.9  82.5  34.6  93.6  80.6  79.7  79.4   79.3   80.2   7?.9    79.9  79.8   90.1   90.3
: riculturvlDP (Z}                   : 25.7  25.6  29.0  30.1  31.4   31.7  33.41 33.3   33.5    33.3   33.2    33.3   32.6   32.2
: -Idustry/IP 12)                       17.4  20.1  20.7  20.2  17.5  16.4  13.6   14.0   14.9    15.3   15.9   15.0    17.3   18.31
-Servicms/IDP  Z)                    132.7  36.9  34.9  33.3  31.7  31.6  32.4  32.0   31.1    31.3   30.9   31.5    30.2   29.8
:Petrolemel/BP  (Z                    : 24.2  17.5  15.4  16.4  19.4: 20.3  20.6  20.7   19.9    20.1   20.1   20.2    19.9   19.7
I                            I~~~~~~ ..
1km-Oil 6P growth  ate                : 7.6   3.4   2.6  -9.3  -9.2    1.3  -3.0    3.0    3.8        3.7     3.9    3.6     4.2    4.3
: -riculture Orauth                   : 6.4  -5.3  13.5  -4.0  -0.9    3.5   2.5: 2.9    3.3          3.5     3.5    3.3     3.5    3.5
-Industry Gowmth                         7.3   9.4   3.2 -10.5 -17.4  -5.0 -21.0  12.0    8.0         8.0     8.0    9.0     9.0    8.0
WPtroleum Broth                       :-11.6 -31.5 -11.7  -2.5  12.9   7.0  -1.3    4.1  -2.0         5.3     4.4    3.0     3.6    2.9t
:61P Broth Rate                          2.2  -5.0   0.1  -9.2  -4.81 2.4  -2.7   3.2    2.6          4.1     .0    3.5      4.1    4.0:
liii? 6rurth Rate                     : 14.1   0.2   2.8  -6.1  -1.3: 0.7 -11.1: 2.5    3.6           4.1     4.3    3.6     4.4    4.3
IHYICapita Growth Rate                :10.9  -3.1  -0.5  -9.4  -4.6 1 -2.6 -14.4: -0.8    0.3         0.8     1.0    0.3     1.1    1.01
Consomption/Capita Growth Rate        1 5.9  -1.6   4.2 -11.3 -10.6  -3.0  -8.1 I   1.3  -1.0   -0.2   -0.2  -0.0            0.3    0.41
*~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                            . 
MIRltios below are cwurent/currentl
0ross Domestic Investment/9DP (ZR    : 23.0 29.7  22.4  17.4  12.9  12.0  10.4 112.7   14.3    14.4   14.5   14.0    15.0   15.4 1
IDomestic Savi.gsID0P (1)             : 27.8  18.3  14.8  14.1  15.3 :16.1  12.3   11.9   13.6    15.4    17.4   14.6   21.9   24.9
.latiuomu  Savings/6DP (Zr)             24.9  15.7  12.0  11.3  13.3 :14.1  11.0 : 10.7   12.2    14.0    15.8   13.2   20.4  23.4
Ifargital Rational Savings Rate ()   :       -36.9 -23.9  -5.6  19.0 1 5.8 -22.0 1 -2.7   14.0    14.8   12.9    9.7    12.2   14.7
IPhblic InvestamntlfiP  (Zl           : 14.4  15.6  14.7  10.9   9.9    9.0   7.9 : 9.3   10.5    10.2    10.0   10.0        9.7    9.4
Public Savings/9DP (2)                113.7   6.0   6.0   0.0   0.01  2.5   3.9 : 5.7    7.3         8.0    9.9    7.7    12.5   14.5 :
Private InvestmentIlUP (S)               8.6  13.1   7.7   6.6   3.0 : 3.0   2.5 : 3.4    3.8         4.2     4.5    4.0     5.3    6.0 :
:Private Savins/GDP (2Z               :14.1  12.3   8.9  14.1  15.: :13.6   8.4 : 6.2    6.3          7.4    7.5    6.8      9.4   10.4 :
Private/Public Investment (U          : S9.5  84.3  52.1  51.4  30.1: 33.3 31.6   3 6.6   36.2    41.2   45.0  39.8    54.6  63.8
:Ezportsk6DP (Z                       : 29.3  22.2  15.4  14.3  16.6 :17.5  14.3   27.6   27.7    29.2    30.6   29.8    33.3  35.1
:[ports/6lP (ZR                        23.5  29.4  22.2  18.2  14.2 :13.8  12.3   28.4   28.4    19.1    27.8  29.2    26.5  25.6 :
flCER Non-Oil SDP-at 97 prices                                                     J . 6.0    4.4     4.8     4.6   5.0      5.0    5.0
Mon-Oil Export Growth (ZR               15.4 -31.1 -35.4  63.6 -44.2 : -1.1  13.6 1 24.8   39.2      7.4    10.9  20.3    4.6    4.9
: -Cocoa w                            :-12.0  13.6 :12.0   21.4    11.8                                      5.3   12.6      4.3    4.2
Export Irorth Rate I)                 : -9.5 -32.3 -27.3   1.0  19.9   11.8  0.2 1 5.5   -1.3        6.4     5.6    4.1      4.0    3.1 :
Heport 6rowth Rate (Z)                :27.2  19.6 -19.4 -22.1 -22.7 : -8.9 -40.1 : 8.3    3.0        3.0     3.0    6.0    3.0    3.0
ITerms of Trade Index                  101.3 113.3 113.0 100.3 100.0 189.8  48.0   41.5   43.4    44.5    45.8   43.8    50.7  54.0
Period Average Exchange Rate            1.83  1.63  1.49  1.38  1.31 :1.12  0.7S 1 0.25   0.22    0.20    0.18  0.21    0.14   0.12
IPeriod Average Domestic Inflation       9.9  19.4  9.9  23.2  39.6: 5.5  20.0 1 20.0   16.0    14.0   12.0  15.5    10.0  10.0
*                           ~~~                                    ~~~.  .  .
|  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I    _     ____              ____________-----                               --           _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----
Note      GDP46ross Domestic Product; GNY4Bross Rational Income.
19-Sqp-86h, DAINI



- 34                                                    ANNME II
Page 5 of 6
Tabl 5S. NlIERIA -  SAI    OF PAUTS AND nTNAL DEDT AN' DEIRT SERVICE PROJECTrlOs 1I
1935      1966      1967     1966      1969      1990       9        m992     1993      I99      1995
(Sllitons of UB$9
mlaun.e of PqtMentes
Oil Ixports                       12.2       G.4       6.2       6.7      7.5       8.2       9.1     10.1      11.2      12.0     12.5
llon Oil ELorct                    0.4       0.4       0.5       0.7      0.5       1.1       1.1      1.2       1.3       1.4      1.6
limorts                           8.3        5.4       6.0       6.3      6.7       7.1       7.5      e.0       5.5      9.0       9.5
Current Account                     0.6       -1.5      -2.1     -2.0      -1.6      -1.3      -0.5     -0.3       0.4       0.S       .2
Camital Account                     0.3       -2.4      -1.0      -1.1     -0.9      -0.3      -0.1      -         0.1       0.5      0.
Overall Balane                       1.0      -3.9      -3.1      -3.1     -2.5      -1.6      -0.9     -0.1       0.5       1.3      2.0
Reserve lncrease (-               -0.3      0.4       -0.3       -         -         -         -      -0.2      -0.1      -0.6     -0.7
Not Transactions on
Pre-1936 Arreare                  0.4      -3.2      -0.3      -0.3     -0.3      -0.2        -        -         -         -        -
Gsap                                          -6.7      -4.2     -3.9      -3.3      -1.6      -0.9     -0.5        .4       0.7       1.3
Wet Impact of 198-7
echadli-ugs and Viau loguz
of Ibtdaiia CaD 2 a                 -        6.0       3.1       0.1     -0.7      -1.1      -1.5     -1.1      -1.2      -1.3     -2.4
Rmmidual Cap                          -       -0.7      -1.2      -3.7     -*.0      -2 .9     -2.*     -1.6      -0.7      -1.1     -1.1
Deblt: Debt Outine
_______d 31 6.0                              19.9      22.0      23.7     24.9      25.9      26.3     26.3      25.5      24.9     23.9
Of Which:- 
IU8D                               1.3       1.7       2.2       2.8      3.3       3.3       4.2      6.5       6.A       4.3      4.8
crwtn DiD  _r*                      21.4      30.5      29.4    '27.2       17.9     IS.2      10.5      *..       4.5       4.3      -
IUSbShiiareIn Total De     b       e7                  1U         W        1MY 3     1 T7     1T11      1"        ii:       i13      2 0
Ration to Ezonrtr of
Gods and P-PEr Sices                                                               (Ratio)
Debt                               1.4       2.6       3.2       3.1      2.9       2.7       2.5      2.2       2.0       1.3      1.6
Debt Servie
Pre-echeodliag Al               34.3      107.0    74.3       65.4     34.6      37.3      29.7     26.2      23.5      16.7     IS.1
Voet-Raehedullug 6/        34.3      20.7      30.0      63.9      63.3     49.0      44.3      36.7     33.5      32.2     30.1
DRD                              1.0       3.1       4.2       4.9      5.0       5.1       5.6      5.5       5.6       5.9      5.9
IBRD Debt Sevice to
Total Debt Service                   0.3    . 15.0      13.3       7.7       7.9     10.4      12.6      15.0     16.7      18.3      19.6
Memorandum Item:
oil Price (USS per barrel)          27.5      14.1      13.0     13.9       14.6     15.6      16.9      18.0     19.2      20.5      21.3
Oil Exports (MBD)                    1.2       !.2       1.3       1.3       1.4      1.       1.5      1.5       1.6       1.6       1.6
11 Totals may not add because of rounding.
2/ includes mortization of recheduliuga and financing of residual gap.
3/ Includes current l.ttere of credit and assed labiity on prlvate sector arrears.
Z/ includes debt service on on-Pasrante*d private sector debt.



ANNEX I:I
35 -                                                        Page 6 of 6
ThE STATES o07       GXUOtGUP OPEUT:on
A.  STATEMENT1 07 S        CROUP ;EftAlmg g"IINGERIA i
loan or                                                                       rL1 Million
Credit                                                               =ut (IRS Ca
Number   leer   Sowror Furio                                        Da     ii-re
Twenty might loan. and two credits fully dieburaed                 743.7    35.3 1b
I3"!     1976    UNgeria    L C State Oil Pisl                      19.0                 3.'
1591      1978      iepria    Rue.  et. Smaliholder Oil             30.0                 0.0 el
1597      3978     NIDS        Industrial Developmnt                51.9                 3.3
1567      3979     Nigeria    A4ric. DeN. - lda                     23.0                 1.7
1668     1979      Nigerie    Agric. Dev. - llarls                  27.0                 5.7
3679      1979     Nigerie    forentry                              31.0                 1.4
1731     1979      Klgerie    WMtor Supply - Kaduns                 92.0                52.2
1119     1979      Nigeria    AgTIC. & Rutrl #Dlt. Iust.             9.0                3I6
2766      3Pn      S(EPA       power lOFe.                           4.. 3
3767      1980     Nigeria    Urban Developnt -   eahi              17.8                   7
IS38     1980      Nigeria    Aerie  Dev. - Oyo-North              28.0
1854      1980     Nigerie    Asric. Dev. - Ekiti-Aoko              32.5                1e.2
1883      1908e    Nigeria    lead                                  78.0                21I.
39S2     1981      Nigeria    Agric. nev. - Buchi                  132.0                28.8
1982     198l      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - lana                   142.0                64.6
2029      1981     Nigeria    Tech. Aslastance - Agri.              47.0               21.5
2036      1982     Nitgria   UMter Supply - Anambrg                 67.0                42.8
UOS5      1982     NUA          Favor - Distribution               100.0                33.3
2185      1982     Nigeria    Agrlc. Dev. - Sokoto                 147.0                el.1
2299      3983     KIDS         Industrial Development             120.0               107.7
2145      1984     Nigeria    Fertilizer Import                    250.0                50.0
237b      1984     11CI         Stall 6 Medium Scle Industry    41.0                    40.6
*2390      1984     NNPC         Tech. Last. - Ca. Entineering    23.0                   25.0
2436      1984     Nigeria    Agflc. Dlw. - KadunA                 122.0               121.7
2480      3985     Nigeria    Tech. Assietence                      13.0                12.2
2503      1985     Nigeria    lIalth - Sokoto                       34.0                36.0
2528      3985     Nigeria    dater Supply - Dorno                  72.0                72.0
2007      1985     Nigeria    Urban - lao                           53.0                53.0
*-2618      1985     Nigeria    Industry - Tech. Anst.                 5.0                 5.0
260       1985     Nisgria    Urban - Lago  Solid wMee              72.0                72.0
Total                                                  2 724 9      35 3  13059.8
Of which has bean repaid                               .3599         538
Total outstmnding                                      2.b5         29.5
mount sold                         16.8
Of which bha  bean reaid           T1                      0.0
Total now hold by Dank ,6 IDA                          2.365.0    29.S
Total undisburmed                                                          10.49.8
D. STATD=YT OF ITC INYESTKDITS
(Al  of March 3I, llasi
Flical                                      Ty   of          AMout in US  Million
Year                                        BuStnges        Loan -       fl      Total
396. 1937.    ArMew  Textilee Ltd.        Textile NLg.    1.0          0.6        1.6
1970
3964            Nigeria Industrial         Dew, Fin. Co.                1.4       1.4
Developmet Bank Ltd.
1973            Funtua Cottonased          Vea. Oil         1.6                  I1b
Cnaebing Ltd. Crushng
1973. 1974      NIgeria Aluminum           Aluminm          1.0        0.3        1.3
Extruaon Ltd.              Processing
1975            La fagl Sugar              Suger                       0.1        0.1
Estate
19B0            ilt                        textiles         6.2        0.7        6.9
1981. 1935      Ikaja lHotel               Tourico         10.3        1.        H.;
190S           slger Battery               Drt-l            I.. 4Q      -         6.G
Tatel groes cmmitwents                     25.0        *.5       29.5
Less canceillaione   uereina-
clans. repemment  an d sale.             4.7         3.t        6.3
Total comiten   now held by IFC            20.3        ?.s       23.2
nditsbursed                                  .0        r.:        I.2
* 't yet tlettlive.
h* Not yet signde.
is  The seatus of the projects listed In Part A Is descri' ed In a separate
report ca all Dank/bA finaned projects in execution. whlch is
upoated twice yearly ant circulated to the Executlve Directors on
Aprll 31 and October 31.
lb  Prior to exchanpe rate adjtustnts.
Ic  Balance too small to be reflected in this table.



- 36 -                              ANNEx III
NIGERIA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable for Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  1 month
(b) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May 5, 1986
(c) Completion of Negotiations: August 1986
(d) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(1) Condition of Loan Effectiveness
(a) the Government shall have received satisfactory assurances that
its esternal financing needs for the remainder of 1986 and 1987
will be met (para 32);
(b) the Government shall have issued an enabling decree and the
guidelines for operations of the second-tier foreign exchange
market, satisfactory to the Bank (para 25);
(c)  the Government shall have taken the necessary steps to
(i) eliminate import licensing requirements to permit free acce~s
to the second-tier market (para 26); (ii) eliminate ex-factory
price controls and lift a substantial number of import prohibi-
tions (paras 26 and 28); (iii) remove 30Z import surcharge,
export duties, export prohibitions and export licensing
requirements (para 27) as specified in the Government' s Letter of
Trade Policy; and (iv) establish the Monitoring Unit (para 37).
(2) Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (para 35)
(a) release of adequate funds by the Government to the second-tier
market; and
(b) satisfactory progress with respect to implementation of agreed
actions for trade and export policy reforms.



-37-                       ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 9
PIA XvAZ-' 4vo
.LTw' crsg*7
September 3, 1986
Mr Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr President
Trade and Exonrt Policies of the Federal Military Government of
Niceria
1. The Federal Military Government of Nigeria wishes to request
for a World Bank loan in support of a trade policy and export
development  programme.    In  this  connection,  this  letter is
intended to expatiate on the trade policy and export development
actions  which  the  Government  has alreaey taken or proposes to
take.    The  ultimate, goal of these policy reforms is to put in
pl2ce   an   appropriate   incentives   framework   which   would
restructure and revitalize productive sectors of the economy to
concentrate on those activities that can produce goods at
competitive   prices  for  both  Nigerian  consumers  and  export
markets and, thus, are sustainable over time. To this end the
trade policy adjustment programme, discussed in this letter,
will aim at realignment of the exchange rate, elimination of
import and price controls, rationalization of the customs tariff
and excise schedules, and implementation of the first phase of
measures for the development of non-oil exports.
2.  May   I   refer   to   other   interrelated   matters  before
concentrating on the specific actions through which the trade
policy adjustment programme will be implemented. These are the
overall adjustment programme of the Government which provides
the macroeconomic framework for the trade policy adjustment
programme; the ongoing adjustment efforts of the Government; and
the   arrangements   being  made  to  secure  financing  for  the
adjustment programme.



- 38 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 9
The Structural Adiustment Programme (JulY- 1986-June 1988)
3. As you are aware, the Government approved a Structural
Adjustment   Programme  in  June  1986  which  aims  to:  correct
distortions in the incentives system; address other long-term
structural problems facing the economy; and return the economy
to a path of growth of GDP; projected at 4 percent per annumj
during the 1986-88 period. A copy of the Adjustment Programme
has been provided to you separately. I am pleased to inform you
that the implementation of the Adjustment Programme has begun
and the monitoring system described in the programme has been
put into operation.
4. The main features of the Structural Adjustment Programme
involve actions to: (a) correct the overvaluation of the Naira
through the setting up of a viable Second-Tier Foreign Exchange
Market (SFEM), in which the exchange rate for the Naira is
determined freely by market forces, as further described below;
(b) restructure and diversify the productive base of the economy
in   order  to  reduce  dependence  on  the  oil  sector  and  on
imports;          (c) make substantial progress towards fiscal and
balance of payments viability over the period; (d) lay the basis
for   sustainable   non-inflationary   growth;   (e)  lessen  the
dominance of unproductive investments in the public sector,
improve the sector's efficiency and intensify the contribution
of the =private sector to economic growth. The budget deficit
will be contained within 4 percent of the GDP and a tight
monetary policy will be pursued during the Adjustment Programme
period.    In  view  of  the limited amount of resources that are
expected to be available to the Nigerian Government, priorities
have been set for: (a) providing the private sector with the
requisite    infrastructure    and   supporting   services:   (b)
improvement of roads and rural infrastructure and modernization
of the transport system, including the railways; (c) completion
only af viable existing projects, rather than initiation of new
ones;  (d)  maintenance  and  rehabilitation  of existing assets,
with increased focus on cost-recovery; (e) rural development and
employment  creation;  and  (f)  agricultural  production.  These
priorities  are  reflected in the Fifth National Development Plan
which  will  be  launched  in.  1987.   As noted in the Structural
Adjustment  Programme,  in  line  with  the above priorities, the
Government   will   carry   out   sectoral   studies  to  further
rationalize the public investment programme.
Onqoina Adjustment Efforts
5. Our President's Budget speech of December 1965 announced the
launching of a broad effort at structural adjustment, on which
the further reforms contained in the Adjustment Programme are
substantially  based.    A  brief  recapitulation of the progress
made at economic reforms since 1984 - when the austerity
measures were initiated - and more particularly during 1986
might be useful as background for the current phase of the
Adjustment Programme and as an indication of the seriousness and
commitment with which the present Administration is pursuing the
necessary struc ural adjustments.



-39                        ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 9
6. The tight fiscal policy pursued since 1984 has enabled the
overall public sector deficit to be reduced from 11.6 percent of
the GDP in 1983 to 2.7 percent in 19B5. This has been made
possible by cutting overall public expenditures by 28 percent in
nominal terms (40 percent in real terms) in 1984 and a further
36   percent   reduction   in  recurrent  expenditures  in  1985.
Simultaneously, federally-collected revenues grew by 9 percent
in 1984 and 34 percent in 1985 as a result of c-mncerted revenue
mobilization  measures.    A  key  reform  announced  in the 1986
Budget was the elimination of the hitherto substantial subsidy
on  petroleum  products.    In  addition  to these austere fiscal
measures,   monetary   and   wage   policies  were  substantially
tightened.    Net  domestic  financial  assets  grew at an annual
average rate of only 10 percent during 1984-85, compared with a
47 percent increase in 1980 and an average of 13 percent in
1981-83.    As regards wages, no general salary increase has been
granted to public sector employees since 1982. The wage policy
guidelines for the last three years have put a freeze on private
sector  wages  and  salaries  as  well as fringe benefits.  These
measures,  coupled  with  good  harvests  of  food crops in 1985,
resulted  in a slow-down of the inflation rate from 40 percent in
1984 to 5.5 percent in 1985.
7.  The  austerity measures introduced in 1984 and 1985 are being
continued  in  1986.    The pace of these policy reforms is being
substantially enhanced in the Adjustment Programme. Special
attention is being paid to the balance of payments situation.
The current account deficits of 9.8 percent of GDF in 1982 and
6.5 percent in 1963 were transformed into a modest surplus of 2
percent  of  GDP  in  1985.    New  external  borrowing  has been
severely limited and, despite the difficult external payments
situation, Nigeria has remained current in its servicing of
medium-  and  long-term  debt.    However, in view of the current
weakness and uncertainty in the world oil market, the mounting
debt service burden, and the need to finance the Adjustment
Programme,   the  Government  has  decided  to  actively  seek  a
restructuring  of its external debt and inflows of new money from
external sources.
Financing the Adjustment Programme
6.  Accomplishment   of   the   Adjubtr..ent   Programme's   growth
objectives will require an annual investment averaging around 16
percent of GDP during the 1986-88 period and imports of US$6.0
billion in 1987 (compared to about US$5.4 billion in 1986) with
only 3 percent annual growth in real terms in subsequent years.
The  Government's  policy  is  to meet t;he financing requirements
primarily from domestic resources. The gap for which balance of
payments financing will be required over 1986 and 1987 is
estimated  at  approximately  US$10.8  billion  per  annum.   The
problem is made worse by a bunching of repayments in 1986-88,
and huge claims under trade arrears. In order to make these
payments without any debt relief, the debt service to export
ratio would exceed 100 percent in 1986 and 70 percent in 1987.



- 40 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 9
9. Faced with the difficult payments prospects, the Government
is seeking a firm level of capital inflow from the international
financial community to ease the debt-service burden and to close
the financing gap required to support the conservative projected
levels of imports designed to ensure success of the adjustment
process.    This  will involve the official rescheduling of Paris
and London Club's debts and of trade arrears, as well as new
loan  commitments.    The  latter  is  particularly  important to
ensure that (i) the proposed Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market
(SFEM) is adequately funded on a continuous basis; (ii) reserves
are stabilized; and (iii) trade financing and other short-term
revolving credit lines will be increased from the current
curtailed  levels.    The  Government  is therefore negotiating a
financing package with the export credit agencies and the
commercial banks for the 1986-88 period and beyond.
The Trade Policy Adjustment Programme
10. I wish  now  to  turn  to  the specifics of the trade policy
adjustment  programme  which the proposed loan will support.  The
trade policy reforms relate to three major categories: {i)
exchange rate realignment; (ii) elimination of crade and price
controls; and (iii) non-oil export development. The timetable
for   various   trade  policy  reform  actions  is  presented  in
Attachment I to this letter.
11. One of the main elements of the Adjustment Programme is the
adoption of a realistic exchange rate policy to correct the
serious overvaluation of the Naira. This will be accomplished
by establishing a viable and substantial Second-Tier Foreign
Exchange Market (SFEM) in which the exchange rate is determined
by  market  forces rather than by administrative means.  The SFEM
covers all Nigeria's external payments, including those of the
Government, except payments for debt service and transfers to
international  organizations  and  to  Nigerian  embassies.    In
addition  to  the  private  sources of foreign exchange supply to
the  SFEM, the Government will itself release foreign exchange to
support  the  market.    Subject  to  resource  availability, the
Government intends to support the SFEM with US$1.2 billion
during the fourth quarter of 1986, and US$1.3 billion during the
first quarter of 1987. The Government will also channel to the
SFEM the proceeds of the proposed World Bank loan as well as any
new commercial bank money which may be forthcoming as a result
of  the  financing  package  being  negotiated  (para  9).    The
detailed modalities of the SFEM's operation are now completed
and have been embodied in a decree to be promulgated by end
August  1986.    The  SFEM  will  be  launched before end-October
1986.    Accompanying  the  introduction  of  the SFEM, exchange,
trade and price contr-ols have been and are being greatly
liberalized, as discussed below. In order to minimize the risk
of distortions and to improve Government revenues, the policy of
depreciation of the official rate will be continued until the
convergence of the two rates, and this is to be achieved within
9 months of the launching of the market.



- 41                          ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 9
12. The Government is aware that a system of bureaucratic
controls applied to trade flows is not only cumbersome but also
leads to unintended distortions in resource allocation. The
Government is also aware that the current import licensing
system will become unnecessary once the SFEM becomes operational
since the rationing of available foreign exchange would take
place  by  price  and  not  by  administrative  means.    Indeed,
elimination of trade controls would be necessary to allow the
SFEM  to  function  effectively  under  market  conditions.   The
Government has therefore decided to eliminate the existing
administrative  controls  on  trade  and  prices.    Thus, at the
inception of the SFEM all import licensing requirements and all
ex-factory price controls will be abolished. Export licensing
requirements, as a matter of principle, will be removed except
in the case of exception.l circumstances (e.g. health, national
security,   nature   conservancy,   national  cultural  heritage,
etc.).    The  import  prohibition  list  has  been substantially
reduced  from  72  to  17 items; those bans that are retained are
applied  for  reasons  of  national security or of public health,
safety  or  morality.    However,  the  remaining  bans  will  be
reviewed   as   part   of   the   comprehensive   tariff   study.
Consequently, the thrust of the protection policy has shifted
from quantitative restrictions to tariffs.
13. The   tariff   and   excise   schedule   was  simplified  and
rationalized in 1984 to reduce the variations in effective
protection to local industries. At that time the Government had
declared that the revised schedule would not be changed until
June   1987.       The   Government   is   aware  that  a  further
rationalization of the tariff schedule would be necessary to
make it consistent witri the market-eetermined exchange rate
policy and to reduce the high levels of effective protection
which  the  current schedule would provide if left unaltered when
the SFEM is launched. The Government has therefore decided to
introduce in conjunction with the SFEM, revised tariff and
excise schedules which would further reduce tariff dispersion,
encourage efficient domestic production and increase taxation of
luxury  consumption.   These revised schedules will be interim in
nature  for  a  period  of  about  12 months.  The Government has
decided  that  a  comprehensive  review of the customs and excise
duty  schedules  will  begin  before  the  end of the year with a
iarget  completion  date of June 30, 1987 and a revised structure
will be implemented by end-August 1987. The Go.ernment has also
decided that the 30 percent import levy and the remaining export
duties will be abolished at the inception of the SFEM since the
exchange rate adjustment implicit in the SFEM will render such
taxes Unnecessary.
14. It is noteworthy that a key element of the Government's
strategy under the Adjustment Programme = the introduction of
export   incentives  and  promotion  measures,  aimed  at  export
diversification by substantially increasing the share of non-oil
exports  by  the  early  1990s.    The  major objectives of these
reforms are to overcome the strong bias against exports that has
existed in the trade and exchange rate regime, enabling non-oil



- 42 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 9
exporters to operate competitively on international markets and
to remove other constraints on exports. The broad aim will be
to promote the growth of efficient and competitive export
activities in agriculture, agro-processing and manufacturing.
15. Since January 1986 the Government has announced a broad
package of export incentives and promotion measures, several of
which have already been implemented. These include: a reduction
in the list of prohibited exports; simplification of export
1 censing  procedures;  a  foreign  exchange retention scheme 4or
exporters; abolition of the six agricultural commodity boards
and their monopoly export marketing powers; an Export Incentives
Decree (August 1986) including a range of fiscal and credit
incentives to exports (duty-drawback, export subsidy scheme, a
short-term bill rediscounting facility for exporters and other
fiscal incentives); an export credit guarantee and insurance
scheme; reorganization and strengthening of the Nigerian Export
Promotion Council (NEPC); and streamlining and simplification of
export documentation and procedures.
16. Given the broad scope of the incentives package, the full
introduction of all the proposed measures will clearly take
time.    Besides,  with  the  establishment  of the SFEM, certain
proposed incentives will need to be modified or eliminated. At
the same time, high expectations have been created among actual
and potential non-oil exporters. The Government strategy would
therefore be to give priority to effectively putting in place
quickly certain key incentives, while leaving others requiring
further preparation to be implemented later. A phased programme
will therefore be adopted for implementation of key export
incentives over the Adjustment Programme period. The specific
timetable for measures to be implemented in the first phase in
presented  in    Attachment  II  to  this letter.  In this phase,
priority will be given to simplification of export procedures
and   documentation;   removal  of  export  licensing  with  some
exceptions, abolition of export prohibitions and removal of the
remaining    export   duties;   reactivation   of   the   customs
duty-drawback scheme; and provision of credit to exporters
through  rediscounting  of  short-term  bills.    Other  measures
proposed will be reviewed and the necessary preparatory work
undertaken in subsequent phases.
17. The Government recognizes the need to strengthen export
promotion and support services to non-oil exporters. In this
context, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) will be
reorganized with enhanced private sector participation, its
promotion functions more sharply defined, and its capabilities
and  staffing  strengthened.    A  report  by an interministerial
committee recommending the upgrading of the NEFC is currently
under review by the Government, and a new NEPC decree will be
promulrated  by  December  31,  1986.    The NEPC will have a key
"focal point" role to play in the non-oil export promotion
drive.      To   this   end,  its  activities  will  be  directed
particularly   towards   assisting   the   private   sector   and
integrating  its  wjrk  more  closely  with the organized private



- 43 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 9
sector.    Given  overall  budget  constraints  and  the  need to
recruit and train on-the-job qualified professional staff, NEPC
will  need  prog-essively to build up and extend its capabilities
over several years. A clear multi-year organizational strategy
will be developed (in Phase I) focusing NEPC's efforts in the
initial years upon selected key promotion and outreach functions
to  assist  private  exporters.    While  it would need to have a
facilitating and referral function on behalf of exporters, as
well as a policy advisory role vis-a-vis the Government, NEPC
will avoid involvement in the day-to-day administration of
incentives, which would be left largely to existing concerned
agencies.
18. In support of the measures being taken, the Government would
appreciate a favourable consideration of the request for a Trade
Policy   and  Export  Development  Loan.    We  look  forward  to
continuing exchange of ideas with the Bank and to the successful
implementation of the Adjustment Programme.
Thank you.
Yoours truly
Chu S P Okongwu
Minister of Finance



44-                         ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 9
Attachment I
Page 1 of I
TRADE POLICY ACTIONS: IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAMME
Action                                To be taken by
1. Issue enabling decree and         ........ 1986
launch second-tier foreign
exchange market
2.  Discontinue import and            September 19e6
export licensing
3.  Discontinue ex-factory            September 1986
price controls
4.  Discontinue import surcharges   September 1986
except on luxury goods
5.  Remove import prohibitions        September 1986
for protective reasons
6.  Eliminate 30 percent levy         September 1986
on imports and the export tax
7.  Implement interim                 September 1986
tariff revision
8.  Obtain an indication of likely  October 1986
funding from commercial credi-
tors through debt rescheduling
and new loans
9.  Complete review of tariff         June 1987
and excise schedule
and formulate proposals
10. Implement revised tariff and    August 1987
excise schedules
11. Unify foreign exchange rates             1987



45                         ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 9
Attachment 2
Page 1 of I
EXPORT INCENTIVES AND PROMOTION: IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAMME
TIMETABLE OF ACTIONS
Actions                  To be taken by       Responsible Agency
1.  Prepare and issue   September 30, 1986  Federal Ministry of
orders revising                           Finance,
export licensing,                         Federal Ministry of
abolishing export                         Trade.
prohibitions and                          NEPC.
removing remaining
export duties.
2.  Implement measures  September 30, 1986  Federal Ministry of
simplify Export                           Trade, CBN,
Procedures and                            Department of
Documentation.                            Customs & Excise.
3.  Prepare and issue   December 31, 1986   Federal Ministry of
guidelines for                            Trade,
operations of Duty                        Federal Ministry of
Draw-back/Suspen-                         Finance,
sion Scheme.                              Department of
Customs & Excise
4.  Prepare and issue   December 31, 1986   CBN.
guidelines for
operation of (CBN)
rediscounting of
short-term bills
for exporters.
5.  Prepare and issue   December 31, 1986   Federal Ministries of
Decree establish-                         Trade and of
ing Reorganized                           Justice.
NEPC with enhanced
private sector
participation.
6.  Prepare and          December 31, 1986   NEPC,
finalize initial                          Federal Ministry of
multi-year organi-                        Trade.
rational strategy
for NEPC.



- 46 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
THE NON-OIL EXPORT PROSPECTS AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
1.        A key element of the Government's strategy under the Medium-Term
Adjustment Program (MTAP) is the introduction of a package of export
incentives and promotion measures aimed at export diversification by
substantially increasing the share of non-oil exports by the early 1990s.
Major objectives of the measures announced in the 1986 Budget and the
recently approved Export Incentives Decree (May 1936) are to overcome the
strong bias against exports that has existed in the trade and exchange rate
regimes, enabling non-oil exporters to operate effectively on a free trade
basis and to remove other constraints to exports. The broad aim will be to
promote the growth of efficient and competitive export activities in
agriculture, agro-processing and manufacturing. Key components of this
strategy will be the shift towards a realistic exchange rate (initially
through creation of the Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market), as well as
introduction of related trade liberalization measures, appropriate fiscal
incentives, export credit schemes, streamlining of export documentation and
procedures, and strengthened export promotion efforts.
B. Past Export Policies and Performance
2.        Up until the early 1970s Nigeria had a diversified and balanced
export base, including cocoa, groundnuts, palm oil, palm kernels, rubber,
cotton, tin, hides and skins as well as other products apart from oil. The
oil boom of 1973/74 (and again in 1979/80) was accompanied by a dramatic
shift in export structure. With the rise of the oil sector, the share of
non-oil exports declined very sharply (from about 42% in 1970 to an average
of 4% over 1980-85), meanwhile agro-processed exports virtually disap-
peared. The total value of non-oil merchandise exports has averaged about
US$400 million per annum over 1980-85. The export base also narrowed
substantially to a smaller range of goods, with cocoa accounting for an
average of 75% of- the total. In addition, there have been reportedly
substantial "unofficial" exports (possibly as much as US$500 million per
annum) to neighboring countries of manufactured goods (e.g., soaps, tex-
tiles, cement etc.) and smuggling of agricultural commodities (e.g., cocoa)
as part of the parallel market in goods and currencies.
3.        The decline in non-oil export performance has in large part been
due to the past economic policies pursued during the rise of the oil
sector. Following the 1973/74 oil boom, the appreciation of the naira
coupled with accelerated inflation and increased real wages eroded the
competitiveness of Nigerian agriculture and industry. The grossly over-
valued currency and the escalated customs tariff structure providing higher
levels of protection to finished goods, together with extensive quantita-
tive controls on imports since 1982, resulted in a strong anti-export bias
in the incentives regime. Meanwhile, the duty drawback scheme has been
ineffective in practice and non-operational since the 1970s; other export



-47 -                            ANNEX V
Page 2 of 7
incentives schemes (the export development fund and the export credit
guarantee and insurance scheme) were not put into operation; and the
Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), established in 1978, remained
under-funded, inadequately staffed, and relatively ineffective. Export
licensing (applied to all exports) and export documentation procedures have
been cumbersome and time consuming, and export prohibitions and export
duties applied to a number of (principally agricultural) commodities.
C.  Non-Oil Export Piospects
4.        The Government it now attaching high priority to the diversifica-
tion of the export base through the promotion of non-oil exports. It
recognizes the need for a strong and sustained commitment over the longer
term to an appropriate policy and incentives framework to enable Nigerian
producers to compete effectively on international markets. With appropri-
ate exchange rate and export incentives policies, the Government considers
that it should be possible to substantially increase non-oil exports in the
medium-term. The Adjustment Program has set a target of US$1 billion per
annum in non-oil export earnings by 1990, or over double the level of the
past five years, implying a growth rate of 20% per annum over 1986-90.
This goal appears ambitious. However, the initial increase in exports is
expected to come from a shift into official trade channels of presently
unrecorded, unofficial exports to neighboring countries. Such a shift will
be important from the balance of payments point of view. In view of the
above the projected increase of 20 percent per annum in the next few years
may be achievable.
5.        Two assessments of the non-oil export prospects over the medium
and long term have recently been completed. The first was carried out by
consultants for the Nigerian Export Promotion Council who evaluated the
prospects of and requirements for manufactured exports from Nigeria. The
consultants' report entitled "Long Range Strategic Planning for the Devel-
opment and Promotion of Manufactured Exports from Nigeria" is available in
the Project File (Annex VI). The second assessment was carried out as part
of appraisal of this proposed loan by Bank staff drawing upon: (a) the
above consultants' report; (b) interviews with exporters and others
involved with exports (banks, agriculture experts, NEPC, Ministry of Trade,
customs officials, etc.); and (c) the Bank's previous secto- work in
agriculture, industry and a 1982 Bank study of non-oil export prospects.
6.        The main conclusions of these assessments can be summarized as
follows:
(a) Nigeria's main competitive advantage is its diversified natural
resource base together with ample supplies of natural gas and
cultivable land and different climatic zones suitable for a range
of agricultural products. These resources should enable Nigeria
to substantially increase exports of agricultural and/or agro-
based products over the medium-term and provide a basis for
exports of a diversified range of manufactured exports in a
long-term perspective;



- 48 -                           ANNEX V
Page 3 of 7
(b) Nigeria's large domestic market which provides a potential for
diversified production, many competing producers, as well as
economies of scale, provides a good basis for Nigeria to produce
manufactured goods on a competitive basis and penetrate export
markets, particularly in ECOWAS countries;
(c) the main agricultural products with good export prospects (and
many of which were exported in significant amounts in the past)
are cocoa, rubber, palm oil, fruits (including pineapples, citrus
fruits and mangos), and maize;
(d) agro-based products with export prospects include canned fruit
juices, frozen shrimps, cocoa intermediates, spices, cocoa-based
beverages;
(e) wood and timber products such as sawn timber, plywood, veneer,
particle board, furniture components, pulp and newsprint have
good export prospects to EEC and ECOWAS;
(f) manufactured products where Nigeria could potentially competi-
tively export include soaps and detergents, plastic products,
enamelware, aluminum kitchenware, nail and wire products, glass
bottles, African print texti'les and plastic footwear; and
(g) Nigeria could potentially export LNG and LPG products in the
medium- to long-term, provided that a long-term supply contract
could be secured and dry gas (LPG) also marketable.
7.        The analyses also point out certain constraints and comparative
disadvantages which will make it difficult for Nigeria to substantially
increase its non-oil exports in a short period of time and making a medium-
to long-term export supply response more likely. Principal constraints
include: inadequate replanting in some traditional agricultural export
crops (rubber, cocoa, oil palm) may cause a decline in production over the
next few years before a long-term expansion materializes; lack of export
marketing capabilities; and lack of adequate transportation facilities.
8.        In short, good potential exists for an increase in non-oil
exports, but the extent and timing of increase is hard to predict given the
supply rigidities and the highly distorted policy and incentives framework
(and strong anti-export bias) since the mid-1970s. With thq policy reforms
under the adjustment program, the vastly improved profitability of exports,
combined with a sizeable and dynamic pool of private entrepreneurs includ-
ing well established larger trading companies with external market links,
may well generate an immediate export response exceeding the expectations
and targets.
D. Export Incentives Program
9.        The objectives of the Government's Export Incentives Program will
be: (a) to ensure equal (price) incentives in naira terms are provided to



- 49 -                           ANNEX V
Page 4 of 7
export sales as for domestic market production; (b) to remove existing
procedural and administrative bottlenecks to exports; (c) to ensure auto-
matic, speedy and equal access to export incentives for direct, indirect
and occasional exporters; and (d) to facilitate appropriate (especially
pre-shipment) financing for exporters.
10.       Since January 1986, the Government has announced a comprehensive
package of export incentives and promotion measures, several of which have
already been implemented. These include: reduction in the list of prohib-
ited exports; simplification of export licensing procedures; a foreign
exchange retention scheme for exporters; abolition of the six agricultural
commodity boards and their monopoly export marketing powers; an Export
Incentives Decree including a range of fiscal and credit incentives to
exports (duty-drawback, export subsidy scheme, redisco'inting facility for
export financing and other fiscal incentives); an export credit guarantee
and insurance scheme; reorganization and strengthening of the Nigerian
Export Promotion Council (NEPC); and streamlining and simplification of
export documentation and procedures.
11.       Given the ambitious scope of the incentives package and the
Govetament's limited implementation capabilities, full introduction of all
the proposed measures will take time. Meanwhile, with the establishment of
the Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market, certain proposed incentives would
need to be modified or eliminated. At the same time, high expectations
have been created among actual and potential non-oil exporters. The
strategy would therefore be to give priority to put in place quickly
certain key incentives, while leaving others requiring further preparation
to be implemented later. A phased implementation program has been adopted
by th_. Government for the export incentives package. Three implementation
phases are proposed:  Phase I (Ju±y - December, 1986), Phase II (January -
August, 1987), and Phase III (September, 1987 - May, 1988).  The incentives
measures to be implemented in the first phase are sumnmarized in
Attachment II to the Government's Letter on Trade and Export Policy (Annex
IV).
12.       Trade and Exchange Rate Policies.  By far the most powerful and
necessary incentive to exporters would be the establishment of a realistic
exchange rate. The non-oil exporters will have unrestricted access to the
Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market for payment of their export receipts
and purchase of imports. All foreign exchange surrender requirements will
be abolished. However exporters are expected to open foreign currency
accounts domiciled with banks in Nigeria to which export proceeds are to be
fully crelited. Effectively this will permit non-oil exporters to retain
100Z of their foreign exchange earnings.
13.       Under the proposed loan the following measures will be imple-
mented to place non-oil exporters effectively on a free-trade regime:
(a) The Customs Duty Drawback will be reactivated and its operations
streamlined. In Phase I, guidelines and procedures will be put
in place for a duty drawback/suspension to offset customs tariffs



50-                             ANNEX V
Page 5 of 7
and excise duties on exporters' tradeable inputs. In order to
ensure automaticity, a system of "fixed" drawback rates (as a
percentage of f.o.b. export sales) will be established--as well
as giving exporters the option of individual rates. Initially,
the "fixed" rates will be established for a limited list of
currently exported goods and others with export potential. In
Phases II and III, the drawback/suspension scheme will be
reviewed, in light of experience with its operation; and "fixed"
rates developed for a wider range of goods. Under the proposed
loan, funding is included for technical assistance and training
to facilitate implementation of the duty drawback scheme.
(b) The remaining export duties will be abolished, since they are
largely redundant given Nigeria's small share of world markets
for the goods on which they are levied.
(c) Removal of Export Restrictions. Currently all exports are
subject to prior export licensing, and a number of goods are
still subject to export prohibition (e.g., rice, maize, vegetable
oils, stockfish, timber). The export licensing system is largely
redundant even for statistical purposes; ard, while its adminis-
tration has been streamlined recently, its price checking system
is necessarily arbitrary and can constrain exporters. The
Government has agreed to substantially remove export restric-
tions. Thus (i) export licensing requirements would be abolished
except for goods whose exportation is controlled for health,
national security or nature conservancy reasons, and exporters
registration with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC)
made voluntary rather than a requirement; and (ii) remaining
export prohibitions will be abolished.
(d) Streamlining Export Procedures and Documentation. A Government
interministerial committee (which included private sector repre-
sentatives and had technical support from UNCTAD/ITC) has pre-
pared recommendations which are currently under review.
Meanwhile, both the Customs Department and the Federal Ministry
of Trade have already- started to streamline their procedures for
exports, including notably customs clearance procedures at the
ports. The streamlining measures will be completed in Phase I.
Thereafter, in Phases II and III, export documentation and
procedures will be kept under review by the Customs Department
and the NEPC to obtain feedback, and to determine further
simplification measures.
(e) Rediscounting of short term bills for exporters. Once the SFEM
is established, this will be important to ensure adequate access,
especially for first-time exporters to (pre-shipment) working
capital financing. The Central Bank of Nigeria will prepare and
issue guidelines for operations of a rediscounting scheme by
December 31, 1986.



- 51 -                           ANNEX V
Page 6 of 7
14.       Export Financing.  Several different schemes are also under
preparation by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to provide appropriate
financing for exporters, formulation of which is to be carried out under
the proposed loan:
(a) An Export Credit Guarantee and Insurance Scheme is to be
established under the CBN and will have several separate
components: (i) Of these, the (pre-shipment) credit guarantee
fund will be particularly important to assist (particularly
first-time) exporters with less well-established corporate
credentials in obtaining working capital financing. (ii) Of less
immediate importance given the likely profile of Nigerian non-oil
exporters is the credit insurance scheme, which would therefore
be deferred to later.
(b) Importantly, further devel.'pment of the export finance system
will also be needed to give access to other export incentives
(e.g., duty drawback) to indirect exporters, and to foster the
development of export trading companies. This is because
Nigerian agricultural, agro-processed and manufactured exports
are likely in many instances to be produced by small- and
medium-scale producers, but exported by trading companies with
better knowledge of external markets. A simplified system of
export financing, possibly based upon issuance of domestic L/Cs
to local producers (back-to-back with export L/Cs), could help
achieve this objective. Under the proposed loan, funding is
included for studies to prepare the design of export financing
schemes along the above lines.
E. Institutional Support for Export Development
15.       The Government has recognized the need to strengthen export
promotion services and support services to non-oil exporters. In this
context, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) will be re-organized
into a semi-autonomous statutory body with strong private sector
participation, its promotion functions more sharply defined, and its
capabilities and staffing strengthened. As noted earlier, since its
inception, the NEPC has been a relatively weak and ineffective
organization, beset with budget and staffing problems, largely because of
the past lack of firm government commitment to export promotion. A report
by an interministerial committee recommending the upgrading of the NEPC (is
currently under review by Government). A suitable decree to enable such
reorganization will be promulgated by December 31, 1986. The NEPC will
have a key "focal point" role to play in the non-oil export promotion
drive. To this end, its activities will be directed particularly towards
assisting the private sector and integrating its work more closely with the
organized private sector. Given overall budget constraints and the need to
recruit and train on-the-job qualified professional staff, NEPC will need
progressively to build and extend its capabilities over several years. A
clear multi-year organizational strategy will be developed (in Phase I)
focussing NEPC's efforts in the initial years upon selected key promotion



- 52 -                            ANNEX V
Page 7 of 7
and outreach functions to assist private exporters. These would include
notably: trade and market information services, export marketing and
promotion assistance (incl. trade fairs); organizing training for private
sector oersonnel in export marketing and market development; and review of
freight services and packaging issues. While it will need to have a
facilitating and referral function on behalf of exporters, as well as a
policy advisory role vis-±-vis government, NEPC will need to avoid
involvement in day-to- day administration of incentives, which would be
left largely to existing concerned agencies. Under the proposed loan,
funding is included for technical assistance and staff training to support
the strengthening of the reorganized NEPC.



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
NIGERIA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
No.                              Document Title
1.   Federal Military Government of Nigeria:  Structural Adjustment Program
(July 1986 - June 1988).
2.   "Long Range Strategic Planning for the Development and Promotion of
Manufactured Exports from Nigeria". Enterprise Consulting Group,
Ltd., Lagos, on behalf of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council.
3.   "Prospects for Non-Oil Exports".  Sector report dated June 23, 1986.
Working Papers (WP)
4.   WP No. 1 Trade Policy Issues Related to the Second-Tier Foreign
Exchange Market.
5.   WP No. 2  Note on Export Incentives and Promotion Measures, May 21,
1986.
6.   WP No. 3  Note on Proposed Technical Assistance and Training for
Non-oil Export Development.
7.  WP No. 4  Strategy for Reorganizing Nigerian Export Promotion Council.
8.   WP No. 5  Proposed Interim Revision of Customs and Excise Schedules.
9.   WP No. 6  Note on Duty Drawback Scheme for Exporters.
10. WP No. 7  Terms of Reference for Steel Sector Study.



N   CHAD
0    N  O~~~~~~~,~~0ND  0N*    GE 
_d~              0000       0*  "       0      g .'                            .?          '                    /u                          DI%..,..rrr.R,  DIVISIONS
_  *.~ L.AGROS          O              N       C ANAME R                O                    O                   N                  -                .m" JuI,. 
~~~~~~s ..r,  KSIMIR
AF R!                                                 RIVER                                        BSO,, R
D  U   IV   A                    A                       CAMEROON 
I  ~   ~                                            0          100       000 G000 Z 
'O N D~N                                                                                                                                 aoe 00



I



