Docment Of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt Ng.P-2325-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
May 11, 1978
Thb docmnt km a resteted ditrbsim *d miy be _d by reelipks only in the perfomnce of
their o.kwcd dies. lb euets muy so oerise be dbled widkut Word Beak aubdmcwtlio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Until March 20, 1978
US$1.00          -         NRa 12.50
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00                    NRs 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               5        0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                 =        2.47 acres (ac)
3            1.50 bighas
1 million cubic meters (Mm ) -          810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 cu4ic meter per second
(m /s)                      =         35.31 cubic feet per
second (cusec)
1 metric ton                   =        2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 to July 15
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADBN      -     Agriculture Development Bank of Nepal
AIC       -     Agriculture Input Corporation
CMC       -     Chatra Main Canal
DA        -     Department of Agriculture
DIHM      -     Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
O&M       -     Operation and Maintenance
PM        -     Project Manager
SAO       -     Senior Agriculture Officer
GLOSSARY
Main Canal         -    supplies water to the whole system
Branch Canal       -    supplies water to 2 or more secondary canals
Secondary Canal    -    serves about 1,000 - 7,000 ha
Tertiary Canal     -    serves about 200 - 500 ha
Field Canal        -    serves about 50 ha
Irrigation Ditch   -    serves about 10 ha
Paddy              -    unhulled rice



FOR OFFICIAL US£ ONLY
NEPAL
THE SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Government of Nepal
Amount:              US$30.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The proposed project would substantially increase the
beneficial use of water in the existing Chatra Canal irri-
gation system. Through the restoration and improvement
of the whole network, and the provision of new structures
for properly regulating all canal flows, the project would
decrease sediment deposition and increase the reliability
of canal deliveries, make full use of the designed capa-
city of the system and extend distribution of regulated
water supplies. As a result, the irrigated area would be
almost doubled, from 35,000 ha at present to about 66,000
ha, enabling about 35,000 farm households to increase crop
yields significantly.
The main components of the project are:
(a) river control and flood protection works in the Kosi
river in the vicinity of the Chatra Main Canal (CMC)
intake;
(b) sediment control arrangements at the CMC intake and
along the CMC;
(c) restoration and improvement of the canal system and
provision of about 180 new structures throughout
66,000 ha;
(d) planning and design of complete minor distribution
canals and drains extending to outlets serving 10 ha
groups of farms throughout an area of about 18,000 ha
and, within this area, construction of works serving
6,400 ha;
(e) drainage improvements covering 12-15,000 ha;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(f) pilot schemes for groundwater exploitation, improved
on-farm irrigation water management and micro-
hydroelectric plants;
(g) strengthening agricultural extension, research and
training activities throughout the Sunsari and Morang
Districts;
(h) equipment and vehicles for construction, survey and
laboratory activities, and project operation and
maintenance;
(i) buildings for engineering and agricultural activities,
and staff housing; and
(j) technical assistance and feasibility studies.
With intensive irrigation, rising groundwater could cause
some localized waterlogging. This risk will be carefully
monitored and corrective action taken as required. The
project faces no other risks beyond those normally associated
with irrigation projects.



- iii -
Estimated Cost                                       Local   Foreign   Total
of Project:                                        -------US$ millions-----
Civil works and buildings
River and sediment control             1.1      1.5        2.6
Canal restoration and
improvement                          4.9      5.5      10.4
Field canal, farm group
& drainage development               2.8      1.4       4.2
Pilot works                            0.1      0.8        0.9
Buildings                              0.7      0.2        0.9
Subtotal                             9.6      9.4       19.0
Equipment for construction,
operation and maintenance             -       3.7        3.7
Technical services                     0.3      1.1        1.4
Project establishment and              1.7      1.0        2.7
services
Contingencies
Physical                               1.8      1.6        3.4
Price                                  3.1      3.7        6.8
SUBTOTAL                            16.5    20.5        37.0
Land acquisition                       0.3       -         0.3
Taxes & duties                         0.2       -         0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  17.0    20.5        37.5
Financing Plan:                                      Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ millions-----
IDA                                    9.5    20.5        30.0
Government                             7.2       -         7.2
Farmers' Contribution                  0.3      _          0.3
Total                               17.0    20.5        37.5
Estimated IDA                                         US$ millions
Disbursements:       IDA FY          1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual           0.5    3.1    8.4    7.5    7.5    3.0
Cumulative       0.5    3.6   12.0   19.5   27.0   30.0



- iv -
Rate of Return:      17Z
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 1949a-NEP dated May 8, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND
DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the equivalent of US$30.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation
and Drainage Development Stage I Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 1873a-NEP) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on March 21, 1978. The principal findings of the Memorandum are described
below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income in 1977 was estimated at $120, and health and education
standards are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth
is less than 44 years, infant mortality exceeds 200 per thousand, and adult
literacy is only 19%. Population in mid-1976 was 12.9 million, of which over
90% lived in rural areas. Both birth and death rates are high, keeping popu-
lation growth at 2.1% a year.
4.        The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
65% of GDP and almost 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the small industrial
sector, which comprises about 4% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials.
However, about 25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-
agricultural activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important
of these, estimated to engage over 1 million people and comprise about 7% of
GDP. They provide basic consumer goods in the many small, isolated markets
where such goods would otherwise not be available.
5.        The landlocked, isolated location of Nepal and its extremely rugged
topography have severely constrained the country's development. Nepal is far
removed from sources of supply of many development goods and access to export
markets, which makes development more costly and uncertain than in most
countries. The inaccessability of much of the country compounds these prob-
lems and limits the rate at which development activities and the expansion
of social services can be undertaken.
6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic and
administrative infrastructure. Under these circumstances. initial development



-2-
efforts necessarily concentrated on establishing a foundation for future devel-
opment. It was inevitable that, during these early stages, growth would remain
slow and that, as a result, there would be little if any increase in per capita
income. However, four successive development plans passed with little shift
in emphasis or improvement in per capita incomes and living standards. The
Fifth Plan (1975/76 - 1979/80) was to become the turning point; emphasis was
to shift away from heavy infrastructure towards quicker-yielding investments
in directly productive activities, and towards the provision of social services.
Investment in primary infrastructure would be highly selective, and kept in
line with the country's near-term ability to exploit it. Infrastructure
directly supporting other development activities would continue to receive
priority.
7.        To some extent the objectives of the Fifth Plan are being achieved.
Overall public investment has been close to targets, and investment is begin-
ning to be reoriented. However, GDP growth is well below the 4-5% annual
growth rate envisioned in the Plan, mainly because of poor agricultural per-
formance. Favorable weather in 1975/76 led to a record cereals crop, and GDP
was estimated to have grown by 4-5%. However, a poor monsoon resulted in a
5.5% drop in cereals production in 1976/77, and overall economic growth of
only about 1% resulted. In 1977/78, it again appears that adverse weather
will limit growth in GDP to no more than 2%.
8.        In the external sector, overall performance continues to be good.
Foreign exchange reserves in September 1977 stood at US$144 million, 16%
higher than a year earlier, and at the equivalent of about 10 months of im-
ports. But the rise in reserves has occurred in conjunction with a large and
increasing trade deficit. Imports have been growing under the impetus of the
Government's development programs, while exports, principally rice (almost 50%
of total exports) and jute (about 15%), declined. However, increased tourism
earnings and Gurkha remittances brought about a significant improvement in
the current account. Tourism earnings accounted for 22% of total convertible
foreign exchange earnings in 1976/77 and have displaced Gurkha remittances as
the largest single source of convertible foreign exchange.
9.        Despite increasing receipts from tourism and remittances from
abroad, improvement in the trade balance remains critically important.
Imports, particularly development goods and raw materials, are bound to rise
steadily; however, prospects for exports are not promising. Prospects for
rice, the largest export, are not favorable due to declining surpluses at
home and a comfortable supply situation in India.
10.       The Government has recently reformed the trade and payments system
by eliminating the broken cross-exchange rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar and
Indian rupee (by revaluing the Nepalese rupee against the dollar by 4.3% and
devaluing against the Indian rupee by 4.3%) and by abolishing the Export
Exchange Entitlement scheme. In its place, a dual exchange rate has been
established that offers premium exchange rates, and hence incentive, for trade
with overseas countries. Certain development goods can be imported at sub-
sidized rates.



3-
11.       The recent signing of new trade and transit treaties with India
should help improve conditions for foreign trade. The transit treaty allows
the transit of goods to and from Bangladesh, and the expansion of existing
port facilities for Nepal in Calcutta. The new trade treaty provides for
improved access of Nepalese goods to the Indian market.
12.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
poor growth of agricultural production which is failing to keep pace with
population growth. Over the period 1967-77, cereals production grew at an
average annual rate of only 1.8% against an annual increase in population of
2.1%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of this
increase; average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Malnutrition is acute
in the Hills, which contain only one-third of the country's agricultural land,
yet close to two-thirds of the population. Population density on agricultural
land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh, under even less favorable
natural conditions. Cultivation has been pushed up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land, and average yields have actually declined. Food availability
for the average family has dropped to less than the equivalent of 225 days
minimum subsistence needs a year. Because they have little to trade except
their labor, one-third of the inhabitants of these areas migrate seasonally
to the Terai plains and northern India for food and work. Since the mid-
sixties, an estimated 400,000 have migrated permanently; there are signs that
this exodus is accelerating. Family planning services which could help miti-
gate this crisis are weak. Although they are available in most of the larger
towns, they are only just beginning to be extended into outlying rural areas.
These efforts are being hampered by the inaccessibility of most of the popu-
lation; mounting a program on the scale needed will require much more manpower
and funds.
13.       While the average-sized farm in the Terai is only 2.4 ha, it is
still almost six times as large as that in the Hills. The small surpluses
produced by the Terai farmers have been the basis for Nepal's rice exports.
However, these exports have been steadily declining, from about half a million
tons in the early sixties to only about 100,000 tons in 1977/78. This has
been the result of production lagging behind population growth and, more re-
cently, the relative decline in export prices resulting from good crops in
India in combination with poor harvests at home.
14.       Agriculture thus has the highest development priority in Nepal, not
only because of its central economic role, but also because of the pressing
need for food in the Hills. However, only the Terai presents opportunities
for establishing market-oriented farming in the near future; agricultural
development in the Hills will have to concentrate on meeting subsistence needs.
With the exception of the Kathmandu Valley, farmers in the Hills are extremely
poor; hence, low-cost means of raising production will have to predominate
initially -- improved agricultural practices, better crop selection, the use
of improved local varieties and, wherever possible, increased use of organic
fertilizers. The focus of agricultural development efforts in the Terai has
been on major surface irrigation schemes to increase cropping intensity. How-
ever, lack of adequate attention in the past to bringing development down to
the farm level has resulted in the full benefits not being realized. The



-4-
general lack of support services -- inputs, credit, extension and research,
and farm-to-market roads -- compounded this problem. However, recent major
irrigation projects financed by IDA and ADB are addressing these problems by
taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches. Nevertheless, research
and extension activities need to be strengthened further. Research activities
must concentrate on adapting promising crop varieties to the many different
micro-climates, while organization of extension activities and training of
extension agents must be improved to ensure the delivery of extension advice
to farmers.
15.       Although agriculture must occupy a predominant position in Nepal's
development strategy, important opportunities exist in other directly produc-
tive sectors, notably industry and tourism. Investment opportunities in large-
scale industry are limited by the extremely low purchasing power of the pop-
ulation, the inaccessibility of much of the country, the country's remoteness
from sources of supply and markets abroad, and its poor endowment with mineral
resources. Under these circumstances, most private capital is invested in
small agro-industries, trade, tourism and real estate, where profits are more
assured. Effective promotion of agro-industrial investments would help promote
crop diversification by farmers and increase domestic value added. Similarly,
improved marketing arrangements both within Nepal and abroad, inputs supply
and credit availability could help expand production by cottage industries.
Tourism is one of the most rapidly growing sectors of the economy. Tourist
arrivals have risen from fewer than 50,000 in 1971 to over 125,000 in 1977.
But unless tourist services, particularly air transport, are expanded apace,
this growth must necessarily come to a halt. There is also potential in
forest-based industries, based on controlled exploitation of forest resources.
At present, however, fuelwood needs are causing the rapid depletion of forest
resources in the Hills, contributing to the already massive erosion arising
from natural causes and forage depletion. Immediate efforts in this sector
must, therefore, concentrate on reforestation and watershed management.
In the longer run, fuller exploitation of Nepal's vast water resources could
provide a basis for accelerated economic growth.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to undertake its development programs, considering the extreme poverty, low
degree of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy. Revenues have
grown at 16% a year since 1969/70, and revenues as a percentage of GDP have
increased from 5.0% in 1969/70 to about 7.5% in 1976/77. Over the same period,
the Government was able to maintain savings on current account in excess of
2% of GDP, a good achievement for a country in Nepal's economic position. 1/
It will be difficult, however, to maintain the public savings rate because
current expenditures will have to start growing more rapidly than in the past
to allow for proper maintenance of roads and major irrigation schemes, and
the operating expenses of expanding social services.
17.       The narrow tax base limits the potential for generating increased
revenues through tax rate adjustments, but there is still considerable scope
1/   Average government saving in the least developed countries as a
whole is about -0.7%.



-5-
for increasing the contribution of agriculture, and improving tax administra-
tion. Effective implementation of the recent agreement with India to improve
control of unauthorized trade along the long common border would constitute an
important step in this direction.
18.       In view of the limited prospects for additional resource mobiliza-
tion, foreign aid remains the decisive factor in Nepal's development. Foreign
aid has increased rapidly during the 1970s. In the next two years, disburse-
ment of aid already committed will provide about $200 million. Present pro-
jections indicate, however, that there will be a residual financing gap of
$75 million. This will prove difficult to fill through projects assistance.
Donors need to consider financing a larger portion of the local costs of pro-
jects, increasing commodity assistance, and providing sector aid.
19.       As important as the need for additional financial assistance is
the need to boost further absorptive capacity. Donors have responded through
project-related technical assistance, and more recently, through efforts to
strengthen the development administration capacity in certain key sectors.
To assist in the overall coordination of financial and technical assistance
efforts, the Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976; the Group has met twice at
plenary meetings to discuss overall external assistance needs as well as
to discuss and coordinate strategy at the local level in Kathmandu.
20.       As of December 31. 1977, official foreign debt amounted to $299 M.
Although utilization has been slow in the past, disbursements are beginning
to accelerate rapidly. Debt service was about $2.2 M in 1977 or equivalent
to about 2% of exports of goods and services. In view of the accelerating
pace of development, external public debt is expected to rise and, based on
the trend in recent years, may reach about $450 million by 1980, of which
approximately 50% could be in IDA credits. The total debt service ratio by
1980 is, however, projected to remain below 5%. Debt service to the Bank
Group alone would be less than 2% of exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
21.       The first IDA credit to Nepal in the amount of $1.7 M equivalent was
made in FY70 for a telecommunications project. This was followed by credits
for highways ($2.1 M), tourism ($3.2 M), irrigation ($6.0 M), a second telecom-
munications project ($5.5 M), water supply and sewerage ($11.8 M), settlement
($6.0 M), power ($26.0 M), rural development ($8.0 M), groundwater ($9.0 M),
technical assistance ($3.0 M), a second water supply and sewerage project
($8.0 M), and a Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project ($4.0 M).  In
FY78, to date, three credits have been approved; for a second highway project
(US$17.0 M); a technical education project (US$5.7 M); and a third telecommuni-
cations project ($14.5 M). The proposed credit would bring the total amount of
IDA assistance to Nepal to US$161.5 M equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank
loans have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal ($3.1 M)
in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank Group operations as of March 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of



-6-
ongoing IDA projects. It shows certain delays in the implementation of these
projects, particularly during the initial periods. These delays have been
largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities. In
order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable technical
assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, including our Resident Mission
in Kathmandu. As a result, improvement in the rate of disbursements is being
realized. During the first nine months of FY78, $10.0 M were disbursed com-
pared to $12.8 M disbursed during the entire previous seven years. There is,
however, substantial scope for further improvement.
22.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for, and total receipts of, external assistance.
The international community has persistently shown considerable interest in
Nepal's economic development and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a
bottleneck. The main constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been
Nepal's limited absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation
and implementation. The Bank is assisting the Government in project prepara-
tion through the Technical Assistance Credit and by acting as Executing Agency
for a number of technical assistance projects in the current UNDP Five-Year
Program. The Bank Group has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity
through its role in organizing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 19).
23.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, forestry, power and rural develop-
ment is under way.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       Nepal's economy is largely dependent on the agricultural sector.
As mentioned in Part I above, farm production and related activities account
for about 65% of GDP, 93% of the labor force and 80% of all exports, mostly
foodgrains. Nepal has a gross area of 14.1 M ha of which only about 2.3 M ha,
is cultivable. Paddy accounts for 51% of the total cropped area; maize 19%;
wheat and other cereals 16%; and other crops including oilseeds, pulses, jute,
potatoes, sugarcane, tobacco and horticultural crops 14%. Development of
agriculture has been slow. Over the last twelve years, growth in production
has been barely above the rate of population growth. Moreover, it has come
primarily from area expansion, the scope for which is limited. The most
noticeable area increases are in wheat (10% p.a.) and potatoes (5.4% p.a.),
mostly in the Terai. Yields of all crops have either stagnated or declined
over the last 12 years, reflecting (i) extension of cultivation into areas of
marginal productivity; (ii) soil denudation; (iii) the lack of technology suit-
ably adapted to local conditions and prepared for extension to farmers; and
(iv) institutional constraints such as lack of trained manpower. In view of
the limited scope for further area expansion, future growth in agricultural
production will depend essentially on yield improvement. This is attainable,



-7-
particularly in the Terai, provided there are effective extension services,
reliable provision of irrigation and adequate drainage at the farm level.
25.       Agricultural Institutions.  Apart from the Ministry of Forest,
HMGN has three Ministries dealing with agriculture: the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Irrigation (MFAI); Ministry of Land Reform; and Ministry
of Water and Power. Irrigation projects are the responsibility of the MFAI
which includes the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM),
the Department of Agriculture (DA), and the Department of Food and Agriculture
Marketing Services. MFAI also has overall responsibility for a number of
public sector corporations which include the Agriculture Input Corporation,
Agriculture Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), Nepal Food Corporation, and
the Groundwater Development Board. In general, like many other government
agencies, agricultural institutions suffer from lack of trained staff.
26.       Agricultural Extension Service.  The DA's Division of Agricultural
Extension and Training operates countrywide agricultural extension services
through offices located at regional, district and panchayat (village) levels.
The extension staffs' main functions are to provide farmers with advice on
improved farming practices, to introduce high-yielding improved varieties
(HYV), and to guide farmers in the selection of suitable cropping patterns.
Their effectiveness is seriously hampered by inadequate training, and the lack
of communication, transportation, and housing facilities at the village level.
In addition, there is little coordination between research and extension
activities and, as a result, the extension service has little to offer. A
pilot project of the Training and Visit system (T&V) in Bara and Parsa dis-
tricts has demonstrated that extension activities can be improved through
strengthening the organization and the linkages with research. A proposal
is under preparation for reorganizing extension services in six Districts,
including Sunsari and Morang, as the first stage of a national extension
project that is envisaged to cover the whole of Nepal.
27.       Agricultural Research and Training:  The DA carries out research,
mainly in food crop production, in a large research complex near Kathmandu
and in twelve smaller stations dispersed throughout Nepal. Some agriculture
research stations are also national crop development headquarters 1/. The
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has supported
research in cereal improvement based on high yielding wheat from India and
rice from the Philippines. The United Nations Development Programme, in con-
junction with the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, is also
assisting with a high protein maize program. With technical assistance from
USAID, the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science of Tribhuvan University
is responsible for formal agricultural training of extension workers. The
1/   The national development programs for paddy, maize, jute and wheat have
their headquarters at Pawanipur (Birganj Irrigation Project, Narayani
Zone), Rampur, and Tarahara (in the proposed project area) Agriculture
Stations, and Bhairawa Agriculture Farm (in Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater
Project), respectively.



-8-
Institute also provides vocational training for agricultural teachers and
in-service training for leading farmers. Recently, research stations have
also been involved in training activities for extension workers and farmers.
This training is generally inadequate, however, due to the lack of experienced
instructors and training facilities.
28.       Agricultural Inputs Supply.  The Agriculture Input Corporation
(AIC) is mainly responsible for the marketing of fertilizers, seed, pesti-
cides, and agricultural equipment. The AIC distributes these inputs to
cooperative societies, village committees or other public organizations,
and private traders, fixes retail prices for all inputs, and is responsible
for input storage. Sales have, however, been sporadic due to poor distri-
bution, and the need for more timely supply of basic inputs and services
at the village level is recognized. The Sajha (cooperative) movement was
established in 1976 to deal mainly with these deficiencies and provide for
sales of agricultural and general merchandise as well as marketing and credit
services for members. On the average, each Sajha serves about 2-3 panchayats
and is assisted by a paid manager, who is trained and seconded by ADBN.
29.       Agricultural Credit.  The ADBN is the main source of institutional
credit available to Nepalese farmers. ADBN provides short, medium and long-
term loans to individual farmers, cooperatives and corporate agents engaged
in agricultural production. Farmers owning 6 ha of land or more can go
directly to ADBN for seasonal loans, while those owning less can obtain such
loans through Sajha cooperatives. Current annual interest rates vary between
2% and 14% depending on the category of borrower and purpose. ADBN's perfor-
mance has been satisfactory, and in FY76, overdues amounted to about 20% of
demand. Until recently, commercial banks in Nepal did not lend for agricul-
ture. Although they were directed in 1974 to invest at least 50% of their
total deposit liabilities in agriculture, their current involvement in
agricultural lending is still quite small since they have yet to develop the
institutional structure that would enable them to serve the needs of agricul-
ture on a substantial scale. Lending from private sources is widespread,
providing about 80% of total agricultural credit, often at much higher
interest rates.
30.       Marketing and Transportation.  Domestic marketing services in Nepal
are not well developed, due to the lack of roads, telecommunications systems,
and warehouses. Since the late 1960's, several public sector organizations
have been established for marketing major farm products. These include the
Nepal Food Corporation, Rice Export Companies, National Trading Ltd., and
Jute Development and Trade Corporation. Officially, export of farm produce
is exclusively the responsibility of these organizations which also fix ex-
port and domestic prices. In practice, however, since the Indian border is
open, extensive free trading occurs, for which no reliable data is available.
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
31.       Water Resources Utilization.  Nepal only has about 1.3 M ha suitable
for surfa5e irrigation while its abundant water resources (approximately 150
billion m annual average stream flow) could irrigate at least five times as



much. Exploitable groundwater resources, which are largely concentrated in
the Terai, could provide tubewell irrigation for about 0.4-0.6 M ha. Utiliza-
tion of water resources is limited by a number of factors: (i) there are few
reliable sources of perennial surface water for year-round irrigation except
for the eight major rivers 1/; (ii) these large rivers are costly to develop,
particularly for relatively small command areas which are typical in the
Terai; (iii) heavy sedimentation in riverbeds creates considerable problems
in construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation systems; and
(iv) power supplies to energize tubewells are severely restricted in extent
and amount. At present, only about 300,000 ha (about 23% of the potential
irrigable area) are provided with some form of irrigation, of which about
140,000 ha are under public schemes.
32.       Irrigation Development.  Before the launching of Nepal's First
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been under-
taken by the Government. The main reasons were limited financial resources
and shortage of trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the
11,000 ha Chandra Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift,
and other traditional methods, irrigation had been provided to an area of
154,000 ha, mainly in the Hills. During the First and Second Development
Plans (1957-62 and 1962-65, respectively), the Government's irrigation pro-
grams were concentrated on the building of large canal projects in the
Kathmandu Valley, the Eastern and Mid-Western Terai. In the Third Plan, how-
ever, a program was launched for construction of minor irrigation projects,
to encourage greater farmer participation and to expand irrigated areas
rapidly. Due to poor investigations and construction, many of these projects
fell short of expectations, which resulted in a poor response from farmers.
The Government then reverted in the Fourth Plan to a policy of constructing
medium-sized canal projects, mainly in the Terai. In keeping with the priority
given to quick-yielding investments, the emphasis has shifted in the Fifth
Plan towards the completion of on-going schemes and new investment in pro-
jects with short gestation periods and high returns (para 6 above).
33.       Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development.  The Bank
Group is presently involved with three on-going irrigation projects and acts
as Executing Agency for the preparation of three further projects. The
Birganj Irrigation Project, Narayani Zone (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0 M, of April 18,
1973) was designed to improve and upgrade the Nepal Eastern Canal and 28,700
ha of surface irrigation and to develop a 2,700 ha pilot tubewell scheme.
Because of a 50% cost overrun during the 1974/77 period, in November 1977 IDA
and the Government agreed to reduce the scope of the surface irrigation
component to 16,000 ha. After a slow start due to procurement and staffing
difficulties, project implementation has steadily improved. All civil works
and equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction has started on
most contracts. The present number of staff is adequate to design and super-
vise the works. Irrigation operations were started in the tubewell area in
1/   The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak), Bagmati,
Kosi and Kankai rivers.



- 10 -
1976 and in 1,000 ha of the surface irrigated area in 1977.  As a first step,
water charges of NRs 100 per ha per crop have been levied in the tubewell area
where 95% of the beneficiaries have paid the charge which is higher than that
levied anywhere else in Nepal. This represents about 60% of the cost of oper-
ation and maintenance (O&M). As of FY1978/79, the Government plans to review
these charges and start collecting water charges in the surface water irrigation
area. The project is now within 18 months of completion. The Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M, of July 9, 1976), the first full-
scale tubewell project in Nepal, provides for construction of 63 deep wells,
detailed development of the 7,500 ha command area, and agricultural supporting
services. The project had a slow start due to delays in procurement of equip-
ment, but is now almost on schedule. Drilling of tubewells is proceeding with
existing rigs until new rigs are delivered later this year. Construction of
the irrigation and drainage networks is about to start for the nine wells
already completed. A component under the Rural Development Project (Credit
617-NEP, US$8.0 M, of April 30, 1976) is providing assistance for improvement
of small scale hill irrigation schemes and development of a high lift pump
scheme on Batar plateau in Nuwakot District; progress is satisfactory. The
UNDP-financed Major Irrigation (Far West Region) Project, for which the World
Bank is Executing Agency, seeks to prepare three irrigation projects in the
Mahakali Zone (12,000 ha), Bheri Zone (Babai) (13,500 ha) and Seti Zone (Jamuar
Nala) (13,500 ha). Reconnaissance reports have been produced, and feasibility
studies have been started on the first two projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.        In line with the Government's objectives of upgrading and exploit-
ing existing irrigation schemes, the proposed project was identified by an
IDA mission in 1975. The Government later engaged the services of Nippon
Koei (consultants, Japan) to assist in preparation of the feasibility study.
The project was appraised in September 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., in April 1978. The Nepalese delegation was led by
Mr. B. K. Pradhan, Director General, Department of Irrigation, Hydrology,
and Meteorology of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation. A
report entitled "Nepal - Staff Appraisal Report - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation
and Drainage Development Stage I Project" (Report No. 1949a-NEP, dated
May 8, 1978) is being circulated to the Executive Directors. A timetable of
key events relating to the project, special implementation actions to be
taken by the Association, and special conditions of the credit are given in
Annex III.
35.        The proposed project would rehabilitate the existing Chatra Canal
irrigation system in the administrative Districts of Sunsari and Morang, on
the left bank of the Kosi River below Chatra gorge, where the river debouches
on to the Terai (Map IBRD 13469). Under the 1954 Kosi Project Agreement be-
tween Nepal and India, as amended in 1966, Nepal has the right to withdraw
any quantity of water from the Kosi and its tributaries, and India has the
right to regulate the balance and to generate power at the Indian-built Kosi



- 11 -
Barrage about 30 km downstream of Chatra. In 1964, India entered into the
Chatra Canal Agreement with Nepal under which India constructed an irrigation
scheme on the left bank of the Kosi in Nepal. Water is. diverted from the Kosi
River at Chatra into the 50 km-long Chatra Main Canal (CMC) on its left bank.
The CMC flows eastward and commands a net irrigable area of 66,000 ha (about
100,000 ha gross). The irrigation system includes 17 km of branch canals,
210 km of secondaries, and only 105 km of tertiaries.
36.       In June 1975, the Government of India handed over the irrigation
scheme to the Government of Nepal. Due to excessive siltation at the Kosi
River intake and in the CMC headreach, frequent breaching of embankments,
lack of adequate control structures on CMC and incomplete distribution and
drainage systems, only about 35,000 ha of the command area are currently
receiving some water.
Project Objective
37.       The proposed project would rehabilitate this largest existing irri-
gation scheme in Nepal with the objectives of: (a) restoring the system to
the scope and capability originally envisaged; (b) improving the reliability
of water deliveries, and therefore increasing farmers' confidence in the sys-
tem; and (c) accelerating agricultural development and thus increasing farmers'
incomes and rural employment. To achieve these objectives, the project is
designed to: (i) reduce the frequency of canal closures; (ii) eliminate severe
sediment deposition in the canal; (iii) restore the conveyance capacity of the
canal system and reduce waste; (iv) ensure adequate flow into the CMC from the
Kosi in the dry season; (v) intensify agricultural extension, research and
training; and (vi) initiate extension of the distribution system down to
groups of farms covering about 10 ha, and drainage improvements.
Project Description
38.       The main components of the project are:
(a) river control and flood protection works in the Kosi River
in the vicinity of the CMC intake;
(b)  sediment control arrangements at the CMC intake and along
the CMC;
(c) restoration and improvement of the canal system and provi-
sion of about 180 new structures throughout 66,000 ha;
(d) planning and design of complete minor distribution canals
and drains extending to outlets serving 10 ha groups of
farms throughout an area of about 18,000 ha and, within
this area, construction of works serving 6,400 ha;
(e) drainage improvements covering 12-15,000 ha;



- 12 -
(f) pilot schemes for groundwater exploitation, improved
irrigation management and micro-hydroelectric plants;
(g) strengthening agricultural extension, research and
training activities throughout the Sunsari and Morang
Districts;
(h) equipment and vehicles for construction, survey and
laboratory activities, and project operation and
maintenance;
(i) buildings for engineering and agricultural activities
and staff housing; and
(j) technical assistance and feasibility studies.
Organization and Implementation
39.       In accordance with the Government's established practice, implemen-
tation of the project would be carried out by a board to be established under
the Development Board Act of 1956. The Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage
Development Board (the Board) would be chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry
of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation. It would include representatives from
the Ministries of Finance and Water and Power, the Directors General of the
Departments of Agriculture and of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology, and
the Project Manager (PM).  The PM would be stationed at Biratnagar and would
be responsible for the day-to-day management of project implementation. The
Board would be staffed during implementation of the project in accordance with
a plan satisfactory to the Association, and a program for formal in-service
and short term overseas training of staff would be carried out (Sections 3.04
and 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)). Formation of the
Board and the appointment of the PM with qualifications and experience satis-
factory to IDA would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit (Sections
6.01(a) and (b) of the draft DCA).
40.       Three wings would be established in the field under the PM; for
planning and control, engineering and agriculture. The Planning and Control
Wing would be responsible for the preparation of maintenance schedules of all
canals and structures of the system, with the assistance of the project con-
sultants (para 43). It would also prepare a comprehensive O&M manual to be
transmitted to the Association in draft by March 1, 1980, and in final form
by October 1, 1981 (Section 4.03(b) of the draft DCA). The Engineering Wing
would restore and maintain the network down to field canal outlets. Beyond
the field canal outlets, the maintenance of channels and drains would be
the responsibility of water users' groups (para 41). The Agriculture Wing,
headed by a Senior Agriculture Officer (SAO) would have two divisions; one
for extension activities, and the other for applied research, training, plan-
ning and monitoring of agricultural progress. Extension activities are im-
perative for the effective utilization of the irrigation potential generated
by the proposed project. The selection of the SAO with qualifications and



- 13 -
experience satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of effective-
ness of the Credit (Section 6.01(c) of the draft DCA).
41.       Of the total project area, 59,600 ha would be developed down to
tertiary canal outlets, and 6,400 ha would be fully developed down to the
farm level. Full development of the entire command area down to the farm
level is envisaged in a subsequent stage. Within each tertiary canal outlet,
serving groups of farms covering 50 to 100 ha, a water users' group would
be established to regulate water distribution based on timed rotational
deliveries proportional to individual holdings. Formation of such groups
has been successfully introduced under the Birganj Irrigation Project (Credit
No. 373-NEP). Water would be released to areas beyond tertiary outlets only
when water users' groups for these areas have been formed and sound distribu-
tion routines established (Section 4.04 of draft DCA).
42.        In order to avoid delay in starting high priority works, the
Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM) has already
appointed consultants for sediment control, Kosi River training works and
works for the restoration of the CMC. The surveys and designs for CMC struc-
tures would be completed by May 1979, and for sediment control and the river
training works, about a year later. These activities are being financed from
the on-going Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Credit 654-NEP) and from
the Technical Assistance Credit (No. 659-NEP). Implementation of sediment
control arrangements and CMC restoration and improvements would be started in
early 1979 and completed in 1980 and 1982, respectively. To ensure effective
operational control of the distribution canals, telephone communication along
the canals would be installed and made operational not later than December 31,
1979 (Section 3.02(i) of the draft DCA). All project works are expected to
be completed by mid-1983.
43.       The staff of the Board would be assisted and trained by consultants
in project planning, preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation
(Section 3.03 of the draft DCA). In addition, assistance will be given in modern
construction techniques, and construction quality, progress and cost control.
These consultants would also advise the staff in the preparation of a feasi-
bility study for further development of the project area, to be completed by
December 31, 1981 (Section 3.02(ii) of the draft DCA). Selection of these
consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association
would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 6.01(d) of the draft DCA).
44.        Intensive irrigation for paddy may raise the water table.  If this
occurs, cash crops, such as groundnuts and soybeans, may have to be planted
in the wet season (para 52). However, little research is being done on the
feasibility of the processing and marketing of these crops. Assurances have
been obtained that the Department of Food and Agriculture Marketing Services
of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation would complete a feasi-
bility study of processing and marketing of cash crops grown in the Terai,
particularly in the project area, and that the study would be submitted to
the Association by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.02(iii) of the draft DCA).



- 14 -
Cost and Financing
45.       Total project cost is estimated at US$37.5 million equivalent in-
cluding US$0.2 million equivalent of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange
cost is estimated at US$20.5 million equivalent and the local cost at US$17.0
million equivalent. The proposed credit of US$30.0 million equivalent would
finance the entire foreign exchange cost of civil works, equipment and con-
sulting services plus US$9.5 million equivalent of local cost, or about 81% of
total costs net of duties, taxes and land acquisition. Local cost financing
is recommended in view of the country's very limited capacity to generate re-
sources (para 18 above). The Government would finance US$7.2 million equiva-
lent of the local cost and the farmers would contribute in labor the balance
of US$0.3 million equivalent.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Procurement of equipment, vehicles and spare parts would be on the
basis of international competitive bidding following IDA guidelines, except
for items costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each which would be procured
in accordance with Government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory,
up to US$500,000 equivalent in the aggregate. Civil works for river control
works would require special expertise and resources and would be procured
through international competitive bidding. A 7-1/2% margin of preference
would be given to eligible local civil works contractors. Restoration of canal
structures and some drainage improvements would be scattered in relatively
small works and constrained by the need to keep the canals flowing. Most of
these works would be carried out by force account (60%), up to a maximum cost
of US$5 M, and the balance (40%) through local contractors following competi-
tive bidding. Sediment control works in the CMC and new canal structures,
most drainage improvements and field canals and drains would also be more
suitable for local competitive bidding since they comprise individually small
structures extending over a large area and part of them can only be carried
out over a limited period of time. A preference of 15%, or the applicable
duty, whichever is less, would be granted to local manufacturers.
47.       Disbursement would be made against:  (a) 100% of foreign expen-
ditures for directly imported equipment, materials, vehicles and spare parts;
(b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment, materials, vehicles
and spare parts manufactured locally; (c) 75% of total expenditures for other
equipment, materials, vehicles and spare parts procured locally; (d) 100% of
expenditures for consultants' services; and (e) 90% of total expenditures for
civil works.
Cost Recovery
48.       Since 1975, water charges in the project area have been increased
from NRs 6 to NRs 60 per ha per crop or, on the average, from approximately
NRs 8 to NRs 80 per ha per year. The vast majority of the 285,000 inhabitants
of the project area are subsistence farmers with average per capita incomes
about half the national average. Sixty-nine percent of land holdings are



- 15 -
under 3 ha and the average family size is 6.4. Average net incremental income
per hectare at full development would vary between NRs 1,000 for the 59,600 ha
with development down to tertiary outlets, and NRs 1,600 for the 6,400 ha to
be developed down to the farm level.
49.       The capital cost of the project would amount to about NRs 5,600
(US$467) per ha, and annual O&M cost after project completion would be about
NRs 135 (US$11) per ha. Therefore, a water charge of approximately NRs 700
(US$58) per ha (in 1977 prices), if collected, would recover O&M cost and 100%
of capital cost over 50 years at a 10% interest rate. However, a water charge
of this level would amount to between 70% and 44% respectively of the average
incremental farm income. This would keep levels of income in the project area
substantially below the national average and reduce the incentive of farmers
to take the risk involved in the use of irrigation water and improved inputs
on which the yield assumptions underlying the economic evaluation of the pro-
ject are predicated. It has, therefore, been agreed that the Government would,
by July 16, 1983, implement a system of water charges to ensure recovery of
full O&M cost and, thereafter at three-year intervals, review water charges
with a view to raising them gradually to cover not only full O&M costs but
also a reasonable portion of capital costs after taking into account farmers'
ability to pay, incentives given for their participation in the project, and
the need for public savings to finance other development activities (Section
4.02 of the draft DCA).
Project Benefits and Risks
50.       The proposed project would add approximately 31,000 ha to the irri-
gated area. The major benefits from the project would be the substantial
increase in foodgrain production in the project area; employment opportunities
estimated at an additional 10,000 farm jobs and 5,000-7,000 non-farm jobs;
improved nutrition for inhabitants of the project area, who are mainly small
farmers and landless laborers; and a substantial increase in net farm incomes.
Foreign exchange earnings/savings attributable to the project are estimated at
US$2 million annually. At full development, it is estimated that incremental
production from the project would be 27,800 tons of rice, 7,100 tons of wheat,
700 tons of pulses, 4,900 tons of jute, 40,200 tons of sugarcane, 700 tons of
oilseeds, and 11,200 tons of vegetables. Average per capita income would
increase from US$60 to US$110 (before water charges), close to the national
average. Farmers in the poorest groups would have an average per capita in-
come of approximately US$80.
51.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 17%.  A sensitivity
analysis shows that even with an increase in cost of 50% and a decrease in
benefits of 25%, the rate of return would still be 10%.
52.       With intensified irrigation of a larger area of paddy (the major
crop), there is some risk that rising groundwater may result in localized
waterlogging during the early part of the dry season after three to five years.
The project would include frequent and widespread observation of the watertable
to provide early warning of any such trend and enable specific action to be
taken, including possible adjustments in the cropping pattern. The project
faces no other risks beyond those normally associated with irrigation projects.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.  Special conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) project consultants have been selected with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association (para 43);
(b) the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development
Board has been established (para 39);
(c) the Project Manager has been appointed with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Association
(para 39); and
(d) the Senior Agricultural Officer, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, has been
selected (para 40).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 11, 1978



ANNEX. I
Page 1 of 4 pages
NEPAL               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU  M1                   -------------------------
LAND-          I AREA (THOUKM2)NEPAL                                                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL      140.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIc.      40.0                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           AFGHANISTAN   BOLIVIA         TURKEY**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     50-0*      70.0*  1Z0.0*/a              100.8*      220.0*      500.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            9.3       11.3       12.9/a             12.3         4.9        35.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       66.0       80.0      92.0/a              19.0         4.0        46.0
PER SQ. KM, AGRICULTURAL LAND       243.0      284.0     323.0_a              86.0        17.0        65.0
VtTAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.3       44,7       42.9               48.7        44.4        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.8       24z2       20.3               27.6        19.7        14.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ,.                    ..                 ..       154.0       153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.6       40.6       43.6               37.8        45.3        54.4
GRoSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0        3.0        2.9                3.4         2.8         2.6/b,C
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
ToTAL                                 1.5        2.1        2.1                2.2/a       2.6         2.5
URBAN                                 6.5        3.9        5.4                5.2         4.2         4.9/d
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           3.4        4.1        4.8                10.7       34.6        33.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       39.9         ^-      40.5/b              43.2        41.9        41.7
IS TO 64 YEARS                       57.0         ,,      56.47E              54.2        54.6        54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.1         ..        3.t7               2.6         3.5         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8         ..        o.g/b               0.8         0.8        0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         I-         .2/b                *-         1.0/a       1.1/e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .-      86.5      378.6
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..       13.7                  ..         ..         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         4300.0         ,,    4900.0/b                 .      2300.0    14500.0Jf
LAaOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          94.6         .        94r vD                        65.0%b    67.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             .          .         *                   .         16.0-        4.0/a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5S  OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..                  ..       36 0/C      32,8/h
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ,.        ..         ..                  ..       593L 60.v
LOWEST  20% oF HOUSEHOLDS               ,.        ..         .,                  ,,        4.0/c       2.9/h
LWEST  40% Of HOUSEHOLDS                ..        ..         ..                  ..       13. S        * 9.47h
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOp 10X OF OWNERS              ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..       53.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10X OWNERS            ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            72000.0   49770.0/a 36000.0              14680.0      2300.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             .   35600. W 1430.0/c              21080.0      2730.0      1770.0/i
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          7000.0/a  6750.0   17400.1c                   ..      40.0        70.0 
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         92.0       94.0       ff.o                80.0       77.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              51.0       52.0       50.0               58.0        46.0        78.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0/b    11.0         9.2                11.0       14.0/d      22.0jj
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..        ..                  ..         7,4        14.7/k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       10.0       26.0       59.0/d              21 .0/b    68.0       109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      6.0         ,,       l4.0/d.e            6.07          .        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                      -___e
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0       10.0                12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                                          22 /                 4.            0° 0Ie   14.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                           10          922j0/d            104.0       140.e       14.0/
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.0/c       ,         ,,                  ,,          ,,         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHDUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      52.0/C       ,,                           97.0/c        ,,       64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 30.0/c       ,,         ,,                  ,,         ,,        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     4.          .          ..0 16.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIL RECEIVERS (PER THOU PoP)           1.0       5.0        6.0                21.0       288.0        89.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0,2/d     0.4                            1 3.0       4.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             X         8.0       10.0                32.0       160.0       240
NWPIT(KG/YR PER CAP)                ..0..0                                 82.1       16.0          0.7.
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
page 2 or 4 pages
NOTES
tales. otherwiaw noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwee 1959 and 2961, for 1970 btateen 1968 wad 1970, and for Most Rlatent Estimate hett,eoo
1973 and 1975.
IGlP per capita data are booed on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
00Over the post forty yeara, Torkey's economy has grow  at a respcttable paow. starting from a very smallhose.  to so doing the country has
formlated objective  and faced prohiem   and constraints whiob. to tosaiderbhle degree, are quite atila- to thoa. Nepal is now fating.  Among
others, those include increasing outpat from t1he productive sectors, agritulture sad industry, accelerating import suhetitutions, diversifying
aed increasing .oports, mohilising r ur             improving eduoa.tiom. health, training, and employmen t opportunities, land reform and improving
income diatrihutito.
NEPA.           1960    La  1965;    /b  1964-66;    Ic  cspital and main ctites only;    /d  1963.
1970    Ia  Pereonnel in governmet service;            lb  Uncluding midaivs..
MOST tECENlT ESTIMAkTE:    /a  1976;    /b  1971;    It  Inoluding midwives and assistant nurse..;    /d  1976-77;    Ie  Lower ....oadary
(Grades 4- 7) only;    /f  Upper secondary (Grades 8-10) only.
AFGHIANISTAN     1970    I   Differenice between UN rate of national Iincrease sand UNtil population growth rate due to different population estimates;
/h  Puhlic education only;    It  Psrcentage of population without safe water supply.
BOLIVIA          1970    /a  Etio of population under 15 sand 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  As percent age of 1ahor forte is employment;
/c  Population;    /d  1964-66;    /e  Betwea  1965 and 1970 the duration of general secon.dary education ass reduced from
6 to 0 yeses.
T'URKEY          1970    /   1967;    lb  Eacludes 17 eaetero provinces;    Ic  1965-67;    Id  1965-70;                /.  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 ond
______            __  ove~-r to labor force 15 years and over;    /8  15 years and over exludes unamployad;    Th  Reeiata-d only;    /h  lIds-
ponable income;       It  including assistant nuraes and midwives;    j,[  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    /1  Persona uio yearn
and over who tell the cennus takera that they can rend and write..
Nill January 9, 1976
SZFffNITIONS OF SOCIAL nSDICATORS
Land Ares (thou kna'(                                                                        Ppoulation ear narsing person - Popalatiom divded by nushs  of prauticieg
Total - Ttals -uface area  -prising loard area sad tolaod wesses.                              moleand Eamsls graduate nu .s, 't-sisad' or "oortlfid" nooses, and
Agrto- .-r.-Mtteom    -inate of s6rioulrt sreal   use d neapo-roly or Pars-                    sotiry passmme  with trototug or sopori-c..
meanly fv crops, postures,  erkot   h irchee gsrdense or  Usoa folios.                     popuaition esr hosital bsd - Populstiom  divided by s,obsr of hospital heds
avef1sble In public smd privsts gaesrs1 sand sp-taisesd hospttsl aed
GNP ear cepits (OtfI$  - clNP per capita esotiotos a  current market petosa,                   rehabitnatiom  osntars;...eludss     Loest  h-.s end sstshtishe..st  for
os loulated by som  comvarstoe method as Wortd Sash At10s (1973-75 basis);                   cetodis1 and Preetive oars.
196C; 1970 and 1975 dots.                                                                  Psr tasits sameiv of csorsaf  of raeuiramnmtsl - Compated from as-gy
oqutvs1asr of sse food ssppioas ava1labla In coomtey par espies per dsy;
Popuistion and vital stotitit                                                                  evsilsbis supplies crnpetse demussto pr-dutiom, imports Isa. exports, ssd
Populationc (mid-year nillion)   us of July ftret:  if not  -vilsbls, avsra5s                  ohooge  in stock; met supplies smotods alm1 fesd, sesds, quantittss used
of o-  end-year esIae;1~60, i9701 end i975 dato.                                             in food prnosssisg and (ossas in distributiom; requiremets ware estimated
by FAO based om phyiologioal sasds for normsl so.tivity cand hsalth toma id-
Population dens ity - per encre os - Ctd-y-s  pop.ltisom par square kilometer                   rnag enviroimnmral tfmperatue, hedy weights, Sgs and see dlstrihutioos of
(100 he,ctra  oftota  ores                                                                   PoPulatio, sed allewiou10% foe wat  a:t hoas.hold leve.
Pocutndena.'t'ftvper1.varo he of ari.. land - Computed as shore far                    Pe  wiasel   feesm(rser dy) - Pratsim nantest of pee u-Pita
egricultursi Uend only.                                                                      nettsuPply of food per day; eat supply of food Is d.fised  s shoe; require-
moat for all coo,etries astablhahd by USDA E-oeartc R ...srth Serri.ss
pirel  tattation                                                                               provids foe a miml1m   ailowen   of 60 gras  of total protsis pee day, and
Crude birth rate Par thouoasd. everoasL - Annual lIve hirth. per thousand of                   20 gras of an1ima  sad pulse protein, of whioh 10 gras should hs sanimal
oid-year popalottom; ten-year acitheetic avrseges  anding Ia 1960 and 1970,                  prOtein; times standarda are lose  them those of 75 gsaw of total pitetet
and ftv-y-e  averag  ending in 1975 f- ormot recat estimata.                                 and 23 gras of animal protein as am average for the serld, proposed by Fuc
Crude desth rat  eec- thousant!d.tg  ..see a-Aneuel deathe Pee thousand of mid-year             in the mhird world Food inevay.
populstiom; ten-year aItlm      iti  averages ending in 1960 sad 1970 end f in-            per osit. enetein supplr fern animal snd sales - Proteim  sapply af food
yea  -r avga  ending in 1975 for meet recen t estimate,                                      derived Crow, aai1.ms ed pulses in grasi per day.
Isfst socialty rate (/thoul   Annual deotha of infants under one yea  of age                 tsth rats (/theu sas  1-4 - AemusI deeths Per thous...d in age group 1-4
per thousand lIve birth..                                                                    yeses, to ohiidreas In this as. grop; suggested as ss indioator of
Life  smeatanCy at birth lyre) -Average ataber of years of life raIn ingo etmalnutrition.
birth; uosally fiv-yser vavrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dawelap-
tng coootria                                                                               Edwoatiom
Gr..sraerodnc7ttonrrace- Oversee  ,sbsr of tire daughter .   woa  w    ill heat               nd9.intad -nrullrnt re.tie. -  cmaeonol-  Enre,E IL-t of all ages as Po--
isheri noma  reproductive period if she emparisoo-  praaen t ags-epenific                    omatags of primacy shu-g  poueta; teodes children  Sgsd 6-Il yeses
fertl ty ct; ua"ally five-year averegen endieg in 1960, 1970 sand 1971                  bun sdjustad fee differet lengths of primary edutatios; for oountci   stab
for devloI"ng coutries.                                                                      uni-es1 aduoatien,  -1rim-  say nomad 1001 stun  sas pupils arbto
Perulotiom nerdth ea!ts I   - total -Compoood om-Ia growth eaten of mid-yssr                    or  hor  the offioisl School age.
populatiom  for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adjusted enrollmnt rstio - esnodarv school - Cosputed as chor; aetoodary
"Poslt   groth ca ts MI  - urbn - Comptsd like gravtb rate of tota1                             eduation requires at la-o  four years of sppeorsd primary iot-ortian;
popu.avion; differset definition  of urban ar.. may affeot opsrbiliry of                      proride  genere1, vocatLIoa  or teacher training isetrutiem   far pupils
dsratamon  omntie.                                                                            of 12t  7ysso   g;oeapman   rea   e   sealy sacldad.
Urhs ecnlatom(2 ofttl  - Rtnic of urban no coral popelaion; dtffersnt                    Ysaeo ofshoolima  rovio   Ifflteaean  sc d lvsl-Total yeses of
defisitione of orhan areas may sffect copsrdbility of date song coustries.                    schooling; et escondary level, vocational inatutiton may he psrtisily or
onaPletely e..oluded.
Use structure (cccoat.) - Children  (0-14 years) , ouking-ogs (t5-64 years),                 Vexatto l enrolmet (Uo   eo           ry) - Vosational inatitutions  istlude
an  rtired (6)yernand aver) as p-eretageso.          i-ec  ouein                           tehaice1, indusris1 oroheI         rogras which operate indspeadertlyora
A,Refdeecade..y ratio  - gatic of populatiom  under U  and 4) end ove  no tho..                 departmeate of ssoondsry inatitutottom.
osoa15 through                                                                         I dult iitsrauy rate  Ill - Littaats edulte (able to reed sand wits)   paspr-
Eoconic desadenny canto - Ratio of population oder 15 and 65 sand avr to                        otasfttledult Population sged 11 yeare end ave.
the labor fum c.In age group of 1 -64yses
fail eanOn-s-eotors (r,mlnIve ythou  - Ou1-ulanv  o,bkr of a...sptoe                   HUi=uso
of r hir-ntrot devices under ...spi... of esti-l femily plaooing program                  PeSosm ! eec  ea rn feh) - Avreage tobke  of pecsono per roan in omonpied
cmos inception.                                                    conventional ~~~~~~~dwellings,in urban areas; dwelin.gs  sld  non-pe,ena.te
Fenf  plveaam- usare  ML of married woe) - Pecemnges of maried see  of                          et -osrsed  -monupad P.ent.
thl1d-beacrmf age (15-44 years) who Use birth-ont-oI devitns  to all married                ooouis1d dwelldings  ithout Piead eatsr (I      - Onpied couventious1 dwellings
wooer It eas  g  group.                                                                       In orbenadr ral  es  without maids or outside piped water facilitisa
Employment                                                              --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Peroonta5a of .li  -ucpiad dwIllSgs.
T.t.1vsa                                                                                      Aoboase toE  o     -    'lott it  f If all dwsllihne) - C-national dwellings with
Tota isor frte(thousand)     cnsolyetv    esn   oldn    se                                 elettetity  tn living q           aees a  percot of totsI dwell1ags in orhan and
foros  sad uneplo'Yedhoeoldu  hosnvs tudents, em. ; definitions                               rural amas..
is  segus  oooris  se  no  ompseble                               gusS  welisa Erore   o  l etty MI   - Computed se shore for -ruro
Labor foros in aerion1ture (15  -Agri-ultura1 labor force (In farming, forestry,                dwelling  omlY.
hooting and fishig ) as pernetgs of total Isbue foros.
Inmlydf   f 'lsbo  fos)- Unemployed are usualy defined as pesons oho                  Conarnetiom
ar   beadwiln toOke Job, ou   (5jb on a given dsy, eranjead out                        Radio reosivar Cpane thou pop) - A11 typsa of rn-i-ers for radio broadc...ts
of s Job, and seeking week far a  pspeofied siamo   perIod not .....dt.g one                  to gasl .-   puhlto pee thousad of populatto; secludes omItoused ces-iera,
-ek; may not he  omparable bstweeo  -outries duo to diffeeset deflinitons                     in -oontries and in yeasrs wham reintti"of radio sate wa  Is affeot;
of uneployed and s oucre of dsts, e.g.,  mploynet offios statitrin, sanple                    dens for reanat years may ne-t he cgmparsbis since mset tostries akellehed
suvys   opulsory umaploymst inaurooce.                                                   liosesing.
In,                                                   d)            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.ssengr oars fearth-a_one) - Pa..sugsr  ares cmprise moto r... sea ting
r:ome distbributio  - Perrentsge of privat t. nooms (both in nash aed kind                     less the  sight peres; aaolades  mbalsooss   hesren  and militrsy
e_tice   byrihest 5%, riehest 20%, pooesst lilt, and pooret Aft of hous-                     vehlole..
holds.                                                                                      El-ttriciry (kwh/re ear noeS  - AemnaI oenernptito, of industrial, osoetrcis1,
ptublio endpritra    elmotisity in kilowtt haves per ospit., gene.rally
DistrIbution of lend  -aeehie - Percentages of land ownd by wealthiest IOU                      hoe .. pd      doindt,wtotslesefelaa   ngishesIe
ood poorsac 11(1 of land owners.                                     leg ~foe iParts end exports ef eetrloity.
Health -d Nutriti-                                                     Ma~~~~~~~~~~~seseriat (ha/yr ear  apsS  - Propits anneal oensmptiio  in kilegrass
Health amd Nutritionii.dby.b                                     f   atiI                       esotimated fer. domsstio production plus met imeorts sof ewpra-
phs ute sqolified fros a madlral -rhoo  at univerity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976:  US$120 A
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974-75                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      7                            1965-75
GNP at Market Prices                         1,424      100.0                             2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                       150      10.5
Gross National Saving                           100       7.0
Current Account Balance                     -   25    -  1.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                           104       7.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                           154      10.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971-72                                                  Value Added
Value Added                Labor Force /b           Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %            _l.        %           ELI           %
Agriculture                                     698      68.0         4.6        95.8           152         71
Industry                                        92        9.0         0.1         2.1           920       430
Services                                       237       23.0         0.1         2.1        2.370      1.107
Total/Average                     1,027      100.0         4.8       100.0           214        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.                    Rs. Mln.      Rs. Mln.
1974/75      % of CDP       1975/76       1976/77
Current Receipts                      1,008.2        (6.8)        1,115.7       1,321.3
Current Expenditure                     513.0        (3.5)          626.9         861.1
Current Surplus                         495.2        .3.3           488.8         460.2
Capital Expenditure                     967.3         6.5         1,238.8       1,510.5
External Assistance (net)               415.0         2.8           457.5         563.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973     1974      1975      1976    1977
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                                 1,493    1,850    2,027    2,458   3,144
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            319       416       532       480     711
Bank Credit to Private Sector                           459       702       810       783     863
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                      12.4      11.1      11.1
General Price Index (1973 = 100)                      187.9    218.4    255.4    261.7   264.2
Annual Percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                    11.2      16.2      17.0       3.7     0.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                     28.1      31.3      27.9    - 9.8    48.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          14.7      52.9      15.4    - 3.3    10.2
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a GNP per capita data based on World Bank Atlas Methodology (1974-76 basis).
lb Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
.. not available



Pale 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AMD CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYETS                                                        BCRAIDISI EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974/75-1976/7?) 7
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77                                                           ISS $ln. .
Of illions USS)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                         80.1      95.3     93.9     Foodstuff & raw materaials                                69.7      82.6
Iports, c.i.f. b/                         189.0    156.3    166.9      Manufactures                                             10.3       12.2
All other commodities                                     4.4        5.2
Trade Balance                       -108.9   -58.0   -73.0            Total c4.4                                                       5 2
Total                                               84.4      100.0
Services, net                              26.1      23.2     39.4
of which: TouriLsm                       15.7      17.1    23.0
EXIERAL DEBT. DECDEMBE 31. 1976
Transfers. net                             28.5      27.7     30.8                                                            156 Kin.
of which. Private Remittances             14.8     18.5     21.6
Indian Excise Refund           7.9      8.8       9.4     Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                           236.5
Non-auaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance              -54.3    - 7.1    - 2.8      Total outstanding & Disbursed                           236.5
Official Grants                             19.3     70.0     18.5
Official Capital, net                       8.3      12.1     16.3    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 less than 2.51 C/
Private Capital. net                      -14.6       9.6   -10.3
Public Debt, inc. guaranteed
Change in Reserves (- Increase)       41.3   -34.6   -21.7        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (mid July)                 112.5    120.3    143.0      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Not Reserves                              109.8    114.9    137.8
Fuel and Related Materials                                             IBID/IUA LENDING, (December 1977) (Million US$):
Imports of which: Petroleum              14.6      16.9     18.8                                                            IlRD        DA
Exports of which: Petroleum               --
Outstanding & Disbursed                                            21.3
Undisbursed                                             ----       90.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       Ottnigie.Udsusd
From October 1975 through                    Outstanding mci. Undiabursed                                       111.3
Through October 1975   Mrch 2C. 1978                Since Harch 20. 1978
US$ 1.00 - NRa 10.56   US$ 1.00 - NRA 12.5          US$ 1.00 - NRs 12.00
NR  1.00 - uS$ 0.095   NR  1.00 - US$  0.08         NR  1.00 - US5 0.083
aI Customs basis.
b/ Payments basis.
Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
Dot applicable                                                                            B*oth Asia Progrms Deprtment
May 2, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                   Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower               Purpose            IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                        7.0
373        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  6.0     2.4
397        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5        4.7
470        1974      Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8      7.9
505        1975      Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                  6.0     5.4
600        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           26.0    20.0
617        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development           8.0     7.8
654        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                 9.0     8.3
659        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance        3.0     3.0
704        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage             8.0      8.0
705        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0      4.0
730        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway             17.0    17.0
772        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education         5.7     5.7
1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5    14.5 /c
Total Outstanding                         131.5 lb
Total Undisbursed                                  108.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1978)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year        Obligor        Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel         Hotel                       2.70   0.40      3.10
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC              2.70   0.40       3.10
Total Undisbursed                               0.38   0.40      0.78
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c   Approved by the Board on May 11, 1978, but not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays in appointing engineering consultants, in field surveys and in
procurement. Civil works are being completed in three irrigation blocks and
contracts have been awarded for another three (out of the original total of
twelve). Construction of tubewells is 70% completed in the groundwater areas.
Irrigation operations started in 1976 from nine tubewells, and in 1977, in the
first surface irrigation block. Due to a 50% cost overrun, a reduction in the
project area to include only six blocks has been agreed. The project should
be completed by mid-1979.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
early 1980, some twelve months behind schedule.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Design work is complete and most of the major contracts have now
been let. Project implementation is about two years behind the original
schedule, primarily due to delays in letting the contracts. A management
team of two experts provided by the United Kingdom has been assisting the
Water Supply and Sewerage Board and three other specialists are being re-
cruited. Work is now progressing satisfactorily.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation is two years behind schedule. While equip-
ment has been procured and land clearing has started, overall progress remains
slow. This is partly due to lack of management and planning capacity by
project agencies and partly to change of Government priorities and land use
policies. The latter are expected to lead to a request to reduce project
size by about 40%. The Government and IDA have agreed upon land clearing
targets for the 1977/78 season. However, if these are not attained and if
progress remains unsatisfactory, restructuring or discontinuation of this
project may have to be considered both by the Government and the Association.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$26.0 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The main civil works contract has been awarded and construction
work started in December 1977. Bids for all major plant and equipment have
been received and are being evaluated. The revised estimate of project costs
is now US$112 million which is some 64% higher than the estimate of US$68
million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs are due to a number
of factors, principally the poor response for the civil works contract and the
risk factors inherent in a major project which is remotely located. These are
reflected in higher bid prices and implementation delays which are adding to
costs. All main contracts are being placed. Discussions are taking place
with co-lenders to explore possible sources of supplementary funds to bridge
the financing gap.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned pro-
ject actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Inter-ministerial coopera-
tion is good, and at the district level, sound and practical development plans
have been produced which are fully supported and understood by project farmers.
Adequate financing to carry out project proposals has been made available in
the budget by the Government and sites and plans for most district construction
projects have been completed and construction started. Training of weavers and
issuance of improved looms under a credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage
of middle-level staff in the project area for construction supervision and
agricultural extension may hinder project implementation. However, arrange-
ments have been made for more efficient deployment of existing staff and for
special training of farmers as part-time agricultural assistants. Under the
associated Bank-executed UNDP technical assistance project, the assistant to
the Project Coordinator, the Irrigation Advisor, and the advisor to the Project
Evaluation Unit have taken up their posts.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project authorities have been established, the main consulting
firm has been appointed and have started their work, and equipment procure-
ment has been started. Drilling of tubewells is in progress, using two
rigs loaned by the Department of Groundwater Development. Nine production
wells have been completed out of the 63 to be provided under the project.
Civil works are about to be started for the nine completed wells.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Terms of reference and draft consultants' contracts for some
priority projects to be financed under the Credit are being discussed
with the Government, and arrangements for initiating studies are being
made. The selection of other priority projects is underway.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and master plan updating
and final designs have been completed. A tariff specialist is being
recruited.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor took up his post in February
and the ODM-financed accounting and information systems advisor is expected
to arrive shortly. To date, subprojects for about $0.2 M have been approved
by IDA.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date:  December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Consultants for construction supervision have been appointed as
well as consultants (financed by CIDA) to provide maintenance technical
assistance. Procurement is being initiated.



ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
the project                           22 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared         Department of Irrigation,
the project                           Hydrology and Meteorology
(c)  First presentation to the             March, 1976
Association and first
mission to consider the
project                               June, 1976
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission        August 24, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations   April 28, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness          September 30, 1978
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
A supervision mission would visit Nepal shortly after the
signing of the Development Credit Agreement to advise on
early implementation activities.
Section III:     Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development
Board (SMIDDB) would be established (condition of
effectiveness, para 39);
(b) the Project Manager would be appointed with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA (condition of effective-
ness, para 39);
(c) the project would be staffed during implementation
of the project in accordance with a plan satisfactory
to the Association (para 39);



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 13, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective. However, good progress towards
implementation has already been made - a project implementation unit has been
established, and sketch plans for civil works, a physical implementation plan
and equipment lists have been prepared.



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) a training program would be carried out in accordance
with a plan satisfactory to IDA (para 39);
(e) the Senior Agricultural Officer would be selected with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (con-
dition of effectiveness, para 40);
(f) the Planning and Control Wing of the SMIDDB would
prepare a comprehensive Operation and Maintenance
Manual, which would be transmitted in draft to IDA
by March 1, 1980, and in final form by October 1,
1981 (para 40);
(g) water would be released to areas beyond tertiary
outlets only when water users' groups have been
formed and sound distribution routines established
(para 41);
(h) by December 31, 1979, telecommunication facilities
for the distribution canals would be installed
(para 42);
(i) project consultants would be selected with qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to IDA (condition
of effectiveness, para 43);
(j)  a feasibility study for further development of the
project area would be completed by December 31, 1981
(para 43);
(k) by December 31, 1981, the Department of Food and
Agriculture Marketing Services would complete a
feasibility study of processing and marketing of
cash crops grown in the Terai, particularly in the
project area, and that the results would be sub-
mitted to IDA (para 44);
(1) by July 16, 1983 the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage
Development Board would implement a system of water
charges to ensure full recovery of operation and main-
tenance cost (para 49); and
(m)  the Government would review water charges, at three-year
intervals, with the intention of increasing the rate
gradually to recover full O&M costs and a reasonable
portion of capital costs (para 49).






IBRD 13469
MARCH 1978
NEFHAL
INDIA                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
-30,                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Location                                       30O-
Mountain Region                               N~-Rivers
9     Hill Region                                         Developmnent Regiun Baundaries
jjjjjinner Tnrai                                          Administrative  Zonal Boundaries
Termt                                               District Boundaries
Kathmanduod  Valley                                 In  lternatiunal Boundaries
Ong1:   ogieg Project
:'Proposed Project
~~~0   ASThx.rVX1                                                                                    oF            C17:i              o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KA~
7         ~te    A NA iAN ZON    y                          INA
CHINA                                                                                                                            H""H'N
N  F    F    F    F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA 
drebfes                                           K LOMETESO                                    I                                         A                                               SUNSANi       lAO PANS~~~~~~~~~~~~NARYAN
7   ~~  00   HO   80       tOO                                                                                                         DiSTRiCT       WOTNICT~~IRIGAr
$00        C                                     MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVLP
I N D I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFRreeeP,eeO O eveeerTecuwerfFeeoFF
-J3  BURMA                                                                                         PR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FnFSFF ore.evI,vr eeCe  o  ov,vAm   Al
ueFFFFuaFeeeC~FF FF OFO FFCOOOFFOFFFFOFT F Re neF F1NC WOFFFOOFFkFFFF
I0054 20    40_______60__________________________140_____160___
KILOMETER5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ruFe FFFAFFFFe ncFuieeeCrFFFFF FOy FOFOFFFO
J                                                  I         N         D           I        A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e   ceioc FFO






IBRD 13493
MARCH 1078
RO~~~~~~~~~~                        O~~~~~~2,                                          4                                                   8O                                                    O
C H I N A                                                                                          NEPAL
ADMINISTRATIVE REGIONS, ZONES AND DISTRICTS
30'
Mountain Region                    -,_  Rivers
Reg j                 > io  4           ; < r< X X gm !1 5: :ni  Development Region Boundaries
Inneer Terni                                   AcImmristr:t,ve  Zonal Boundaries
Kothmrndu Volley                           Internotionail Boundaries
4 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                ~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              I                                           C D: I,      N A:en     
i' 2R                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28J 2A 
App-1,- Li- 0C.-I                N0    0         90 00 20  4016
IE  N D I A
as~~~~~~~~~~ 20   40  60zG4  X0 101    4   6
SEALta f R I   iANKA  t  -2 6             210        MI LE TERS                                              D
SE14          I   I . io~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~86                                                                                                          O
26'






NEPAL
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Stage I Project
CHATRA MAIN CANAL COMMAND AREA
Chatra main canal                               Main roads
intake                    --- Boundary of canal command                              Limit of form groupdevelopment, stage I
\CHATRA                          Secondary canals                      -w-"1-- Protective embankment
2 > ,., ~~~~~~~~Limit of irrigation, 1977                                     Towns  -,
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
ft i j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th,serta ohes been pre/pared byytrhe\l1
.. 9, e   -/                 } \              p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  the convncereoof the readers of  ')\f                                      
,_/Bar t7f  £?ecetgcal             | _                  The denonsnet,n usd andthe     \S                               -                               Kioers>C
.G5 I       /     nt rocfclv on the yart otho                   .                                                     5                          10 C
)      0  0            |          ,/         ~~~~~~~~~~~or acceptance or' soclondarrese nfM\iltes                                                                                    'rt sn
Ono/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



