Document of                  d   4
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  f1t
Report No. 1949a-NEP
NEPAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
May 12, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = NRs 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                       =      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                  =      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                    =      2.47 acres
3            1.50 bighas
1 million cubic meters (Mm        =      810 acre-feet
I cubic meter per second (m Is)  =       35.31 cubic feet per
second
1 metric ton                      =      2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADBN      -    Agriculture Development Bank of Nepal
AIC       -    Agriculture Input Corporation
AW        -    Agriculture Wing
CE        -    Certainty Equivalent
CMC       -    Chatra Main Canal
DA        -    Department of Agriculture
DADO      -    District Agricultural Development Office
DIHM      -    Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
EPAD      -    Evaluation and Project Analysis Division
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
EV        -    Expected Value
EW        -    Engineering Wing
FGD       -    Farm Group Development
GOI       -    Government of India
HMGN      -    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV       -    High Yielding Variety
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
JT        -    Junior Technician
JTA       -    Junior Technician Assistant
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MFAI      -    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
NFC       -    Nepal Food Corporation
NZ-I      -    Birganj Irrigation Stage I Project Narayani Zone
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
OER       -    Official Exchange Rate
PLA       -    Panchayat Level Assistant
PCW       -    Planning and Control Wing
PM        -    Project Manager
REC       -    Rice Export Co.
RVPD      -    River Valley Projects Department (Bihar)
SAO       -    Senior Agriculture Officer
SCF       -    Standard Conversion Factor
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
T&V       -    Training and Visit
WUG       -    Water User's Group
GLOSSARY
Main Canal           -   supplies water to the whole system
Branch Canal         -   supplies water to 2 or more secondary canals
Secondary Canal      -   serves about 1,000 - 7,000 ha
Tertiary Canal       -   serves about 200 - 500 ha
Field Canal          -   serves about 50 ha
Irrigation Ditch    -   serves about 10 ha
Paddy                -   unhulled rice
Panchayat            -   village
Nala                 -   natural drain
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE STAGE I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ...........................................          1
The Development Scene ..... ..............                 1
The Agricultural Sector ..................                 2
The Irrigation Sub-Sector .......................         4
II.   THE PROJECT AREA .....................................          6
The Chatra Canals Project ..... ...........               6
Natural Resources ..... ................                   7
Socio Economic Conditions .... ............               9
Cultivation Practices ..... .............                 9
Agricultural Supporting Services ................    10
III.   THE PROJECT ..........................................         12
Project Concept ................. ................       12
Main Project Features ............ .. .............      12
Detailed Features ................ ...............       13
Water Demand and Supply and Quantity ............    17
Engineering Designs and Construction Methods  ....    18
Implementation Schedule .......................          19
Environmental Effects .............. .............    19
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....      ........    20
Cost Estimates ..................................        20
Annual Expenditures .............................        21
Financing Plan ..................................        22
Procurement    .....................................     22
Disbursement    ....................................     24
Accounts and Audit ..............................        24
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Nepal
in September 1977, composed of Mr. C.M. Bolt and Ms. M.C. Nguyen (Bank);
and Messrs M. Barber and R. Baskett (Consultants). Mr. K. Mahmood (Con-
sultant) visited Nepal in November 1977 to appraise the Kosi river training
and sediment control proposals.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................                  25
Project Organization ............................                 25
Staffing and Training ...........................                 26
Operation and Maintenance .......................                 27
Monitoring and Evaluation .......................                 28
VI.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES  .                 29
Cropping Pattern and Yields .....................                 29
Incremental Production ..........................                 30
Input Requirements ..............................                 30
Market Prospects ................................                 31
Prices ..........................................                 31
VII.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ...................................                  33
General .........................................                 33
Farm Budgets  ....................................                33
Distributional Effect  ...........................                34
Cost Recovery ...................................                 35
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................                   37
General .........................................                 37
Economic Evaluation of Investment Package              .......    37
Economic Evaluation of Project Components              .......    37
Sensitivity Analysis Risks .....................                  39
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS  ......... ............................                  41
LIST OF TABLES
2.1 Record of CMC Breaches and Closures
3.1 Irrigation and Drainage Works
3.2 List of Equipment and Vehicles
3.3 Estimate of Irrigation Requirements
3.4 Estimate of Irrigation Efficiencies
4.1 Summary of Estimated Project Cost
4.2 Estimated Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance
4.3 Estimated Annual Expenditure
4.4 Disbursement Schedule and Credit Allocation
6.1 Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production
6.2 Crop Input Requirements
8.1 Economic Evaluation



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
LIST OF FIGURES
2.1 Kosi River Channels
3.1 River and Sediment Control Arrangements
3.2 Historical and Projected Canal Closures
3.3 Implementation Schedule
5.1 Organization Chart
5.2 Coordinating Activities
6.1 Crop Calendar
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Draft Provisional In-Service Training Programs
2.   Monitoring and Evaluation
3.   Farm Budgets and Project Rent
4.   Basis for Economic Analysis
5.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13469   Project Location
IBRD 13526   Chatra Main Canal Command Area






NEPAL
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
The Development Scene
1.01      Nepal is confronted by a formidable set of development constraints.
The problems of a rapidly growing population (2.1% annual growth rate) and
limited exploitable resources are compounded by the difficulty of being land-
locked. The country is divided physically into three broad ecological zones:
the Mountains, the Hills, and the Terai, a northern extension of the Indo-
Gangetic Plain. These three zones cover respectively 15, 68 and 17% of the
total land area of 141,000 km . The steep topography of most of the country
has severely limited the availability of land for productive farming. Per
capita production in the Hills has declined due to the extension of cultiva-
tion to marginal land. This has increased the rate of migration to the Terai.
Pressure on land has, therefore, been rising at an alarming rate, and the
Terai's grain exports have declined from an annual 500,000 tons in the early
1960's to 200,000 tons during the last few years. In 1977/78, rice exports
are expected to reach only 70,000 tons.
1.02      Population of Nepal is now estimated at about 13M, of which 96%
are in rural areas. About 60% of the population live in the Hills, which
contain only 30% of the agricultural land and where the density (930 persons/
per arable km ) is higher than in neighboring Bangladesh. In contrast, the
Terai is only one-third as densely populated as the Hills, the average farm
(2.3 ha) is almost six times the size of that in the Hills (0.4 ha).  Poverty
remains acute, and per capita income is estimated at US$120 (in 1977 prices).
Although nutritional levels are low in the Hills and Mountains, they are much
higher in the Terai. In 1975, local production of major crops was sufficient
to maintain minimum subsistence standards 1/ for only about six months in
the Mountains and eight months in the Hills. In the Terai, production was
sufficient for about eighteen months. Health and education facilities are
generally inadequate. At present, only about 19% of the population are
literate.
1.03      The major objectives of the agricultural development efforts of His
Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) are to raise agricultural production, to
increase employment opportunity for the rural poor and to accelerate the coun-
try's export earnings. Although long-term development plans aim at reducing
income inequality between the Mountains, Hills and Terai, in the near term
1/   Estimated at 2,000 calories per person per day for the Hills and Terai,
and 2,200 for the Mountains because of higher altitude.



-2-
there is a more urgent need to increase agricultural production, particularly
of foodgrains, to feed the growing population.' Because of their isolation,
the Hills and Mountain areas present particular difficulties in the achieve-
ment of these short-term aims. The scope for agricultural development is much
more favorable in the Terai, where there is considerable irrigation potential,
communications are relatively well developed, and farm holding sizes are
sufficient to enable a marketable surplus to be grown.
The Agriculture Sector
1.04      Agricultural Development.  Nepal's economy is largely dependent on
the agricultural sector. Farm production and related activities account for
about 65% of GDP, 89% of the labor force and 80% of all exports, mostly food-
grains. Nepal has a gross area of 14.1 M ha of which only about 2.3 M ha
is cultivable. Paddy accounts for 51% of the total cropped area; maize 19%;
wheat and other cereals 16%; and other crops including oilseeds, pulses,
jute, potatoes, sugarcane, tobacco and horticultural crops 14%. Performance
over the last twelve years has been disappointing. Growth in agricultural
production, hardly above the rate of population increase, came primarily from
area expansion, which was limited, rather than from improvements in land pro-
ductivity. The most noticeable area increases have been in wheat (10% p.a.)
and potatoes (5.4% p.a.), mostly in the Terai. Yields of all crops have
either stagnated or declined over the last few years. This is due to (i)
increasing cultivation in areas of marginal productivity; (ii) soil denuda-
tion; (iii) the lack of suitably adapted technology, prepared for extension
to farmers; and (iv) institutional constraints such as lack of trained man-
power. In view of the limited scope for further area expansion, future growth
in agricultural production will depend virtually on yield improvement. This
is attainable, particularly in the Terai, provided there are effective exten-
sion services, reliable irrigation supplies and adequate drainage at the farm
level.
1.05      Agricultural Institutions:  HMGN has three Ministries dealing with
agriculture: Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation (MFAI); Ministry
of Land Reform; and Ministry of Water and Power. Irrigation projects are
the responsibility of the MFAI which includes the Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM), the Department of Agriculture (DA), and
the Department of Food and Agriculture Marketing Services. The Ministry also
has overall responsibility for a number of public sector corporations which
include Agricultural Input Corporation (AIC), Agriculture Development Bank of
Nepal (ADBN), Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), and the Groundwater Development
Board. In general, like many other government agencies, agricultural insti-
tutions suffer from lack of trained staff and poor distribution throughout
the country.
1.06      Agricultural Extension Service:  The DA's Division of Agricultural
Extension and Training operates a countrywide agricultural extension service
through offices located at regional, district and panchayat (village) levels.
The extension staffs' main functions are to provide farmers with advice on
improved farming practices, to introduce high-yielding improved varieties
(HYV), and to guide farmers in the selection of suitable cropping patterns.
Their effectiveness is seriously hampered by inadequate agriculture training,



-3-
and the lack of communication, transportation, and housing facilities at the
village level. In addition, there is little coordination between research and
extension activities and, as a result, the extension service has little to
offer. A pilot agricultural extension project employing the Training and
Visit system (T&V) in Bara and Parsa districts in Nepal has demonstrated that
extension effectiveness can be improved through strengthening the organization
and the linkages with research. In consequence, HMGN intends to undertake a
nationwide agricultural extension project based on similar concepts.
1.07      Agricultural Research and Training:  The DA carries out research
mainly in food crop production in a large research complex near Kathmandu and
twelve smaller stations dispersed throughout Nepal. Some agriculture research
stations are also national crop development headquarters 1/. The United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) has supported research
in cereal improvement based on high yielding wheat from India and rice from
the Philippines. The United Nations Development Program, in conjunction with
the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, is also assisting with
a high protein maize program. With the technical assistance from USAID, the
Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science of Tribhuvan University is respon-
sible for formal agricultural training of extension workers. The Institute
also provides vocational training for agricultural teachers and in-service
training for leading farmers. Recently, research stations have also been
involved in training activities for extension workers and farmers. This
service is generally inadequate, however, due to the lack of experienced
instructors and training facilities.
1.08      Agricultural Inputs Supply:  The AIC is mainly responsible for the
marketing of fertilizers, seed, pesticides, and agricultural equipment. The
AIC distributes these inputs to cooperative societies, village committees or
other public organizations and private traders, fixes retail prices for
all inputs, and is responsible for input storage. Sales have, however, been
sporadic due to poor distribution, and the need for more timely supply of
basic inputs and services at village level is recognized. The Sajha (coopera-
tive) movement established in 1975 has been entrusted with the task of under-
taking sales of agricultural and general merchandise as well as marketing and
credit services for its members. On average, each Sajha serves about 2-3
panchayats and is assisted by a paid manager, trained and seconded by ADBN.
1.09      Agricultural Credit:  The ADBN is the main source of institutional
credit. ADBN provides short, medium and long-term loans to individual farmers,
cooperatives and dealers engaged in agricultural production. Farmers owning
6 ha of land or more can go directly to ADBN for seasonal loans, while those
owning less can obtain such loans through Sajha cooperatives. Current annual
interest rates vary between 2% and 14% depending on the category of borrower
and purpose. ADBN's performance has been satisfactory, and in FY76, overdues
1/   The national development programs for paddy, maize, jute and wheat have
their headquarters at Parwanipur, Birganj Irrigation Project Narayani
Zone, Rampur, and Tarahara (in the proposed project area) Agriculture
Stations, and Bhairawa Agriculture Farm (in Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater
Project), respectively.



-4-
amounted to about 20% of demand. Until recently the two commercial banks in
Nepal (The Nepal Bank and the Rastriya Varijya Bank) had not been lending for
agriculture. Although they were directed in 1974 to invest at least 50% of
their total deposit liabilities in agriculture, their current involvement is
still limited. Lending from private sources is widespread, providing about
80% of the total agricultural credit, often at much higher interest rates.
1.10      Marketing and Transportation:  Domestic marketing services in Nepal
are not well developed, due to the lack of roads, telecommunication systems,
and warehouses. Since the late 1960's, several public sector organizations
have been established for marketing major farm products. These include Nepal
Food Corporation (NFC), Rice Export Companies (REC), National Trading Ltd.,
and Jute Development and Trade Corporation (JDTC). Officially, export of farm
produce is exclusively the responsibility of these organizations which also
fix export and domestic prices. In practice, however, since the Indian
border is open, extensive free trading occurs, for which no reliable data is
available.
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.11      Water Resources Utilization:  Nepal has abundant water resources,
i3cluding major rivers with average annual discharges totalling 150 billion
m , and capable of irrigating 6 to 8 M ha. However, there are only about
1.3 M ha of land suitable for surface irrigation by canal in the country.
Exploitable groundwater resources, which are largely concentrated in the Terai,
could provide tubewell irrigation for about 0.4-0.6 M ha. The total irriga-
tion potential is therefore less than 2 M ha. Utilization of water resources
is limited by a number of factors: (i) there are few reliable sources of
perennial surface water for year-round irrigation except for the eight major
rivers 1/; (ii) these large rivers are costly to develop particularly for
relatively small command areas which are typical in the Terai; (iii) heavy
sedimentation in riverbeds creates considerable problems in construction,
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems; and (iv) power supplies to
energize tubewells are severely restricted in extent and amount. At present,
only about 300,000 ha (about 23% of the potential irrigable area) are pro-
vided with some form of irrigation, of which about 140,000 ha are under public
schemes.
1.12      Irrigation Development:  Before the launching of Nepal's first
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been undertaken
by HMGN. The main reasons were limited financial resources and shortage of
trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the 11,000 ha Chandra
Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift, and other traditional
methods, irrigation had been provided to an area of 154,000 ha, mainly in the
Hills. During the First and Second Development Plans (1957-62 and 1962-65
respectively), HMGN's irrigation programs were concentrated on the building
of large systems in Kathmandu Valley, Eastern and Mid-Western Terai. In the
1/   The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak),
Baghmati, Kosi and Kankai Rivers.



- 5 -
Third Plan, however, a program was launched for construction of minor irriga-
tion projects, to encourage greater farmer participation and to expand irri-
gated areas rapidly. Due to poor investigations and construction, many of
these projects fell short of expectations, which resulted in discouraging
response from farmers. HMGN then switched back in the Fourth Plan to a policy
of constructing medium-sized irrigation projects, mainly in the Terai. In
keeping with the priority given to quick yielding investments, the emphasis
has shifted in the Fifth Plan towards the completion of on-going schemes and
new investment in projects with short gestation periods and high returns.
1.13      Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development:  (Map IBRD
13469) The Bank Group is presently involved in three on-going projects and
acts as executing agency for preparation of three further major projects.
Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone), (NZ-I) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0 M,
1973), under construction, was originally designed to improve and upgrade
the Nepal Eastern Canal and 28,700 ha of its irrigation command area, as
well as to install a 2,700 ha pilot tubewell scheme. In November 1977, IDA
agreed to reduce the scope of the surface irrigation area to 16,000 ha, to
accommodate a 50% cost overrun during 1974/77. After a slow start due to
procurement and staffing difficulties, project implementation has steadily
improved. All civil works and equipment contracts have been awarded, and
construction has started on most contracts. The present number of staff
is adequate to design and supervise the works. Irrigation operations were
started in the tubewell area in 1976 and in 1,000 ha of the surface irrigated
area in 1977. Water charges have been collected in the tubewell area where
95% of the beneficiaries have paid a higher rate (about NRs 100 per ha per
crop) than elsewhere in Nepal. The project is now within 18 months of com-
pletion. The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M,
1976), the first full-scale tubewell project in Nepal, provides for con-
struction of 63 deep wells, detailed development of the 7,500 ha command area,
and agricultural supporting services. The project had a slow start due to
delays in procurement of equipment, but is now almost on schedule. Drilling
of tubewells is proceeding with existing rigs until new rigs are delivered
later this year. Construction of the irrigation and drainage networks is
about to be started for the nine wells already completed. Power supplies
are adequate for operating these nine wells, but future availability may be
limited until the power supply agreements with India are fully implemented.
A component under the first Rural Development Project (Credit 617-NEP, US$8.0
M, 1976) is providing assistance for improvement of small scale hill irriga-
tion schemes and development of a high lift pump scheme on Batar plateau
in Nuwakot District; progress is satisfactory. The UNDP-financed Major
Irrigation (Far West Region) Project, for which the World Bank is executing
agency, seeks to prepare three irrigation projects in the Mahakali Zone
(12,000 ha), Bheri Zone (Babai) (13,500 ha) and Seri Zone (Jamuar Nala)
(13,500 ha). Reconnaissance reports have been produced, and feasibility
studies have been started on the first two projects.
1.14      In line with HMGN's objectives of upgrading and exploiting existing
irrigation schemes, the proposed project was identified by a 1975 IDA mission.
HMGN later engaged the consultants' services of Nippon Koei (Japan) to assist
in the project feasibility study. During IDA appraisal in September 1977, a
careful review of implementation capacity, project organization, and farmers'



participation was carried out, utilizing experiences gained from NZ-I, to
determine an appropriate project design, including the construction schedule.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
The Chatra Canals Project
2.01      Nepalese-Indian Agreements.  The proposed project would rehabili-
tate the existing Chatra Canals Project (CCP), lying in the administrative
districts of Sunsari and Morang on the left bank of the Kosi river (Map
IBRD 13469). In 1964, HMGN entered into an agreement with the Government
of India (GOI) under which GOI undertook to construct the CCP as part of
the overall aid made available by India to Nepal. Headworks for the with-
drawal of water for the project were constructed at Chatra, immediately down-
stream of the gorge from which the Kosi debouches on to the Terai plains
(Map IBRD 13526). Under the Kosi Project Agreement of 1954, as amended in
1966, Nepal has the right to withdraw any required quantity of water from the
Kosi and its tributaries, and India has the right to regulate the balance and
to generate power at the Indian-built Kosi Barrage about 30 km downstream
of Chatra.
2.02      Construction.  The GOI entrusted the construction of the CCP to the
State of Bihar's River Valley Projects Department (RVPD), which started work
in 1964. It included a gravity canal taking 2ff from the river at Chatra,
and commanding a gross area of about 1,000 km . Bihar's RVPD substantially
completed the Chatra Main Canal (CMC) in 1970, while the project's branch,
secondary and some tertiary canals 1/ were constructed by 1974. Trial ope-
rations of the canals were carried out between 1970 and 1975, when GOI handed
over all the works to HMGN. The cost to GOI was originally estimated at
NRs 58 M, but the completion cost is understood to have been about NRs 200 M
(US$16 M equivalent).
2.03      CMC runs along a contour 100 m above sea level and commands the area
limited by the Bakra river to the east, the boundary between Nepal and India
to the south, and by a flood bund on the left bank of the Kosi to the west
(Map IBRD 13526). The irrigation scheme is about 45 km from east to west,
and varies in width between 20 and 25 km from north to south. The irrigation
system consists of the 50 km long CMC with its intake on the Kosi River at
Chatra, 17 km of branch canals, 210 km of secondaries, and only 105 km of
tertiaries. The system is designed to irrigate an area of 66,000 ha.
2.04      Defects of the Chatra Canals.  Downstream of Chatra the Kosi flows
across an alluvial fan, at the head of which it divides into two channels
(Figure 2.1). The main stem flows on the right of the river, and a subsidiary
channel supplies the CMC intake on the left. The main channel has recently
1/   A tertiary serves about 200-500 ha, a secondary about 1,000-7,000 ha
and a branch canal supplies two or more secondaries.



- 7 -
been shifting further to the right, resulting in increased sediment deposi-
tion on the left, thus extending a large shoal which is progressively
restricting flow in the subsidiary supply channel. As this trend is likely
to continue, the intake may be completely isolated from the river by the
shoal during the dry season within the next two to four years. In addition,
the bed level of CMC intake channel has been set 2 m lower than the present
bed level of the river supply channel, and this has induced the movement of
gravel and coarse sand into the canal at all flow levels, but particularly
during the monsoon. Mainly for this reason, the CMC intake is routinely
closed whenever the suspended sediment content in the intake channel exceeds
3 gram/liter. This regulation gives rise to 22 days of canal closure during
an average monsoon, and over 80 days in a season of particularly heavy rains.
2.05      Below the intake, CMC passes through a 9-km long headreach in 10-m
deep cutting. It is crossed by 6 large superpassages (cross drainage struc-
tures) in the headreach for disposal of flood flows from the foothills. Due
to inadequate design of these structures, flood flows have occasionally
spilled into the canal, causing considerable damage and interrupting irriga-
tion supplies. Other more frequent causes of canal closure are breaches which
occur through weak embankments. This weakness is aggravated by the high water
levels at which the CMC has to be operated due to heavy sediment deposits.
Removal of sediment requires canal closure for maintenance to be lengthened
from one month to at least 4 months, thus limiting the dry season irrigation
period. Records of canal closure due to all the above causes are presented
in Table 2.1.
2.06      Beyond the distribution outlets from CMC, there are no flow regu-
lating structures in the secondary and tertiary canals. The distribution
system is therefore uncontrolled.  Construction of distributar   canals was
terminated wherever each canal decreased in capacity to 0.14 m /sec (5 cusecs),
and the system is therefore incomplete. Because of this as well as structural
weakness and damage, considerable waste presently takes place. As a result,
only about 35,000 ha (53% of the command) receives some irrigation supplies.
Drainage in the system is limited to local cross-drainage syphons, many damaged
beyond repair. Overland drainage is field-to-field and discharges to natural
drainage lines. Inundation of crops frequently occurs in low-lying areas (15%
of the command) and along river banks (15%).
Natural Resources
2.07      Topography.  The irrigated area slopes from north to south with
moderately steep gradients of 1 in 600 to 700. Elevations range from 115 m
above mean sea level at the CMC intake to 60 m at the international border.
The area is intersected by a natural north-to-south surface drainage pattern
of numerous nalas (drainways), streams, and several rivers. Four of the
rivers are shallow-cut in their alluvial fans, and frequent spills present
flood hazards. In some cases the nalas and streams do not connect to the



- 8 -
rivers but terminate in flooded areas. Nevertheless, the area is topographic-
ally suitable for irrigated farming.
2.08      Soils.  The alluvial soils of the project area comprise clay loams
(26%), loams (50%) and coarse loams (24%). Soils are rather low in organic
matter, nitrogen and phosphate, and moderate in potassium. Soil reaction
varies from slightly acid to slightly alkaline, and with proper irrigation
and drainage, there is little salinity hazard. Soils are moderately to well
drained, and water-holding capacities vary from rather low to high. Most of
the lands are suitable for growing paddy and upland crops with proper water
management, including drainage (paras 3.09 and 3.18).
2
2.09      Surface Water.  The Kosi river has a catchment area of 58,000 km
of which almost a third lies in China. The river is notorious for its high
sediment content which rises to about 20 gram/liter (2% by weight) during mon-
soon floods (June-August). It is reported to be the fourth most sediment-
laden river in the world. One of the causes of sediment is believed to be
soil erosion occuring in China. In Nepal, most of the sediment problem in the
Kosi cannot be prevented since it largely originates from fast flowing major
tributaries, which scour out large quantities of gravel from their beds and
banks. Landslides due to frequent earth tremors are also sources of sediment,
while soil erosion from terraced farms makes a relatively minor contribution.
The 12-year streamflow recor s at Chatra show that av rage monthly flows in the
Kosi ranged from about 350 m /sec ij March to 4,500 m /sec in August, with
mean annual run-off of 55 billion m . The maximum recorded flood (13,400 m /
sec) occurred in August 1970, while the minimum run-off of 280 m /sec was
recorded in February 1971. Four local rivers traverse the project area and
two are reported as perennial.
2.10      Groundwater.  The project area is underlain by thick alluvial depo-
sits, water-saturated to within a few meters of ground surface, and forming
part of the immense alluvial aquifer system of the Ganges basin. To the
north, below the Mahabarat range, coarse deposits predominate, consisting
mainly of outwash fan material. Sediments become finer to the south until,
in the CMC command area, there is a larger proportion of clay beds. Although
data is scarce, the area's similarity to places with known groundwater re-
sources elsewhere in the Terai indicates the existence of a large aquifer
potential.
2.11      Climate.  The semi-tropical climate in the two Districts is charac-
terized by two distinct seasons: wet (May through October) and dry (November
through April). The annual rainfall in the CMC command area ranges between
1,200 mm and 2,500 mm, of which about 97% occurs during the wet season. Due
to uneven rainfall distribution, supplemental irrigation is invariably neces-
sary for high and stable crop yields. Rainfall during the dry season occurs
in occasional showers.  The mean monthly temperature ranges from 160 - 27 C
during the dry season and 250 - 30 C in the wet season.  The relative humidity
is about 30-50% during the dry season and 60-75% during the wet period. Sun-
shine hours average about 7-8 hours per day, and wind velocity about 7 km/hr.



-9-
Socio-Economic Conditions
2.12      Population.  There are about 600,000 inhabitants in Sunsari and
Morang Districts and 285,000 in the command area of the Chatra Canals Project.
The total number of households is estimated at 75,000 in the two Districts
and 44,000 in the command area, with an average family size of 6.4. Farm
households account for about 80% of the total, of which about one-third are
landless. Most of the command area has recently been transformed from forest
to cultivated land. The level of agricultural development is, therefore,
relatively low, and per capita income is about half of the national average
(US$120 in 1977 prices).
2.13      Land Tenure.  The average landholding is estimated at 3.3 ha.
"Small" and "marginal" farmers (less than 3.0 ha) account for over 69% of
the total number, but control less than 23% of the cultivable land. On the
other hand, farmers with 7.0 ha or more (11% of the total number) control
about 50% of the area. Tenancy accounts for about 21% of the cultivated land.
Fees are officially fixed according to the grade of the land, and in the
project area they are generally equivalent to about 640 kg of paddy per ha.
At present level of yields, this accounts for approximately 50% of the gross
value of production. Provision of inputs is generally shared between land-
lords and tenants.
2.14      Communications.  The project area is centered on Biratnagar, an
important administrative, marketing and processing center, and the second
largest city in Nepal. The East-West National Highway and the Dharan-
Biratnagar Road pass through the project area. Another road connects Birat-
nagar with Rangelee, an Eastern Region township, located adjacent to the
project area. The area is served by a small airport at Biratnagar. A branch
line of the main Calcutta railway reaches Jogbani, located on the Nepal-India
border.
2.15      Public Services.  Only four main towns (Biratnagar, Inarwa, Ithari,
Dharan) in the two Districts have access to electricity provided from the
33 kv transmission line originating from Jogbani and Kosi Barrage (para 2.01).
Potable water supplies are available only in the main towns, and most vil-
lages rely on open ponds which become contaminated and often empty towards
the end of the dry season. Health clinics and schools are limited to towns
and a few of the larger villages.
Cultivation Practices
2.16      Present Cropping Pattern.  In the project area paddy, jute, wheat,
oilseeds, sugarcane, pulses, and vegetables are grown. In rainfed areas, the
predominant cropping pattern is a paddy-fallow rotation, and in areas where
water supplies are available, a cropping pattern of jute-paddy-fallow is
practiced. Present cropping intensity is about 117%, of which paddy and jute
account for 72% and 30% of total cropped area, respectively. Wheat is usually
grown in rotation with paddy during the dry season but accounts for only 6% of
the crop area, some of it irrigated.  Sugarcane is an important cash crop, but
due to limited milling capacity, it only accounts about 2% of the area. Oil-
seeds and pulses are grown in rotation with jute on a limited area (4%). Some
vegetables (2%) are also grown from home consumption in both wet and dry seasons.



- 10 -
2.17      Crop Yields.  Local varieties of paddy are mostly grown in the area,
producing low yields (1.1 tons/ha for rainfed paddy and 1.5 tons/ha for
irrigated paddy). Improved varieties such as IR-8, Parwanipur No. 1 and
Masuli are also used, but yields (2.0 tons/ha) are below their potential
because of greater susceptibility to deficiencics of fertilizer ^ d water.
Improved varieties of wheat such as RR-21, HD 1982, and NL-30 were first
introduced into the area about ten years ago, and farmers usually rely on the
soil moisture for germination and on the sporadic winter rains for growth.
Some wheat is also grown under irrigation but due to the unreliable water
supply, yields are generally low (about 1.1 tons/ha). Jute, usually planted
at the onset of the wet season, is the most important cash crop in the area,
and average yield is about 1.0 ton/ha. Sugarcane yield is extremely low
(about 17 tons/ha) due to poor practices, unreliable water supplies and
lack of drainage. Other minor crops such as pulses and oilseed are grown
mostly under rainfed conditions and their low yields offer much scope for
improvement.
2.18      Inputs Used.  At present, practically no chemical fertilizers and
insecticides are applied to crops grown in the project area. Those few
farmers who apply fertilizers use insufficient amounts. Animal power is
used extensively for farming activities such as plowing, harrowing, puddling,
and for threshing. Farm mechanization is rarely seen in the area.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.19      Extension, Research and Training.  Extension services in the project
area falls under the technical command of two District Agriculture Develop-
ment Officers (DADOs) of Sunsari and Morang Districts, who report to the
Regional Director of Agriculture, Eastern Region. The existing staffing
pattern is inadequate as a field level worker serves, on average, 2,000 farm
families. In addition, insufficient technical back stopping, poor training,
lack of systematic diffusion of farming technology, as well as shortage of
transportation and housing facilities, further reduce the effectiveness
of extension workers. The Tarahara Agriculture Research Station, situated
13 km north from Biratnagar, is the main jute research station for Nepal and
provides technical support to the extension services in Sunsari and Morang.
It also conducts various agronomical trials on paddy, wheat, maize and vege-
tables. Most of the research work is not particularly adapted to the pro-
ject area. Consequently, there is no basis for extending research results
to the farmers.
2.20      Credit and Input Supply.  ADBN has established Regional and Branch
Offices at Biratnagar and one Sub-branch in Sunsari District. There are also
about 80 Sajhas (Cooperatives) spread throughout the two Districts, each
serving about 800-1,000 farm households. Although the coverage of credit ins-
titutions is impressive, the performance has been less so, due to inadequately
trained field staff, lack of supervision and poor discipline. For the period
of 1972/73-1975/76, the weighted average recovery rate was only about 60%.
However, this is expected to improve since ADBN has recently received assis-
tance from the Asian Development Bank in organization and management, and
particularly in staff training. Commercial banks involvement in agricultural



- 11 -
lending has been limited. Lending from private sources is widespread though
there is no reliable data to indicate its extent. AIC has a Regional Office in
Biratnagar, and there are some 29 dealers handling inputs. Additional storage
buildings are being built in the project area, in response to the increase in
sales of modern inputs such as fertilizer and pesticides.
2.21      Marketing.  Marketable surplus from the Terai is mostly exported to
India. A study on the trade flow of cereals in Nepal (1971/72) showed that
about 50% of total cereal production is marketed, of which about 70% left the
country as compared to 30% traded within the country. Most of the important
agricultural products in the project area are likely to be marketed in India
through both official and/or informal channels, in view of the proximity and
ease of access to India as compared to the other regions within Nepal.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
3.01      The proposed project would rehabilitate the largest existing irri-
gation scheme in Nepal with the objectives of (a) restoring the system to
its original scope and capability; (b) improving the reliability of water
deliveries, and therefore to increase farmers' confidence in the system; and
(c) accelerating agricultural development and thus increasing farmers' incomes
and rural employment.
3.02      To achieve the above objectives, the project is designed to (i) re-
duce the incidence of frequent canal closures (paras 2.04-2.05); (ii) eliminate
severe sediment deposition in the canal (paras 2.04-2.05); (iii) restore the
conveyance capacity of the canal system and reduce waste (paras 2.05-2.06);
(iv) ensure adequate flow into the CMC from the Kosi in the dry season (para
2.04); (v) intensify agricultural extension, research and training (para 2.19);
and (vi) initiate extension of the distribution system down to 10-ha groups of
farm, and drainage improvements (para 2.06).
3.03      Since implementation capacity would be constrained by availability
of staff and funds, the project would include all priority works (i) through
(v), and as much of (vi) as can reasonably be carried out in a five-year
period between 1978/79 and 1983/84, by which time the whole system would be
restored. The proposed project would accordingly involve the restoration and
upgrading of the existing system throughout the whole of the CMC command area
(66,000 ha), extending the canal network down to groups of farms of 10 ha in
6,400 ha, and improving drainage in about 12-15,000 ha within the CMC command.
Main Project Features
3.04      The main components of the project would be:
(a) river control and flood protection works on the Kosi
river in the vicinity of the Chatra Main Canal (CMC)
intake (para 3.05);
(b) sediment control arrangements at the CMC intake and
along CMC (para 3.06);
(c) restoration and improvement of the canal system and
provision of about 180 new structures throughout
66,000 ha (para 3.07);
(d) planning and design of complete minor distribution
canals extending to outlets serving 10 ha groups of
farms throughout an area of about 18,000 ha and,
within this area, construction of canals and drains
serving 6,400 ha (para 3.08);



-13 -
(e) drainage improvements covering 12-15,000 ha (para 3.09);
(f) pilot schemes for tubewells, improved water management
and canal micro-hydroelectric developments (para 3.10);
(g)  streng.nening agricultural extension, research and
training activities throughout Sunsari and Morang
Districts (paras 3.11 - 3.13);
(h) equipment and vehicles for construction, survey and
laboratory activities, and project operation and
maintenance (para 3.14);
(i) buildings for engineering and agricultural activities,
and staff housing (para 3.15);
(j) technical assistance (paras 3.16, 3.17, 3.18).
The project would have an estimated cost of US$37.5 M, including US$0.5 in
taxes and duties, and would be executed over a five-year period by the
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Board (SMIDDB).
Detailed Features
3.05      River Control Works.  To prevent further restriction of the sub-
sidiary supply channel on the left side of the Kosi river (para 2.04), it
is tentatively proposed that a guide island would be constructed at the up-
stream tip of the shoal (Figures 2.1 and 3.1). The island would stabilize
both the river approach and the shoal, by fixing the point of bifurcation
between the main channel and the subsidiary channel supplying the project,
so that about 20% of the river discharge would always flow towards the CMC
intake. With the construction, proper operation and maintenance of a gated
sluice bay (Figure 3.1, para 3.06) as well as the guide island, ample dry
season water supplies for the project would be secured. The most effective
configuration of the guide island and the sluice bay would be fixed by con-
sultants, following hydraulic model tests. To prevent the possibility of
inundation of the CMC headreach during floods, and consequent widespread
damage to the project, a protective embankment would be built on the left
bank of the Kosi near the intake (Figure 3.1).
3.06      Sediment Control.  The control and disposal of excess sediment
entering the CMC from the Kosi would be achieved by three measures (Figure
3.1), depending upon the findings of surveys, model tests and designs: (a)
by constructing a sluice bay in the river to reduce sediment inflow; (b) by
dredging coarse sediment from a settling basin; and (c) by extracting medium-
grained material through a sediment ejector in the canal bed. The sluice bay,
consisting of a gated weir and a training wall, would be located on the Kosi
river supply channel. The settling basin, located a short distance below the
intake, would enable inflowing sand and gravel to be excavated by a dredger.
Sand and silt would largely be discharged through a slotted conduit (vortex
ejector), installed across the bed of the canal headreach, and returned back
to the river through a nala. Excavation of the existing 100,000 m of deep



- 14 -
deposits in the first 15 km of CMC rould be carried out as soon as possible.
Remaining deposits (about 200,000 m ) would be cleared after completion of the
new sediment control arrangements and low-level sluices for rapid dewatering
of the main canal. These works would restore canal capacity, reduce the number
and duration of supply interruptions by 80-90% (Figure 3.2) and shorten the
annual maintenance closure period from 4 months to 4 weeks.
3.07      Restoration and Improvements (Table 3.1).  The works would include
(a) strengthening CMC embankments to prevent frequent breaches and canal
closures; (b) repair or reconstruction, where necessary, of about 70 main
canal structures to prevent leakage and improve flow control; (c) strengthen-
ing embankments of all secondary and tertiary canals to avoid overflow; (d)
repairing 200 existing regulating structures and constructing about 35 new
secondary canal regulators and 1,000 tertiary outlets to control water flows.
In addition, improved protection of the system against storm drainage would be
provided by construction of about 20 cross-drainage structures and 14 escape
spillways on the secondary canals.
3.08      Farm Group Development (FGD).  Under present conditions, water dis-
charges from canals through unregulated outlets commanding about 100 ha, and
its distribution to farms is extremely haphazard. Under the project, water
distribution and drainage would be improved by the construction of about 150
field canals (supplied from tertiaries) commanding blocks of about 50-ha and
equipped with regulating outlets each serving groups of farms of 10 ha, as
well as tertiary drains. Within the farm groups, irrigation ditches and
drains to farms would be installed by cooperative action of local farm labor
under the supervision of project staff. This arrangement has worked satis-
factorily in NZ-I Project. Implementation constraints would limit the area
thus improved to about 6,400 ha during the 5-year project period (Map IBRD
13526). A further 12,000 ha would however be surveyed, planned, designed and
ready for construction by 1983. It is expected that FGD would be completed
throughout CMC command by 1990-92.
3.09      Drainage improvement.  To ensure proper drainage of the 6,400 ha
selected for FGD, natural drains serving that area would be improved where
necessary, starting from their outfalls near the lower boundary of the proj-
ect and covering about 12,000 ha. Works would include straightening and in-
creasing the capacities of natural channels, excavation of new secondary and
tertiary drains, and control structures. Other priority drainage works
would be constructed to reclaim about 3,000 ha of low-lying areas which are
subject to inundation. Limited works would also be constructed to protect
canals from flood damage by minor rivers crossing the project area. Road
drainage would be improved where necessary by construction of culverts, using
labor organized by the panchayats and with materials supplied under the
project.
3.10      Pilot tubewells.  The project would install and operate 25 tube-
wells, energized from the existing 33 kv transmission system, to test the
technical, economic, and organizational feasibility of supplementing surface
water supplies with groundwater, in areas such as in the tail of the canal
system where irrigation water supplies are limited. Five deep wells, located



- 15 -
along the East-West Highway, would test the aquifer characteristics under
production pumping. Of 20 proposed shallow tubewells, 10 would test their
effectiveness in subsurface drainage and the control of waterlogging in low-
lying areas, and 10 would provide reliable irrigation supplies to farmers in
selected tail areas, to test the application of improved water management
practices. Three small hydroelectric plants (micro-hydels) would be installed
at canal falls, to test the feasibility of generating local power in remote
areas.
3.11      Agricultural Extension, Training and Research.  Under the project,
agricultural extension would be reorganized in both Sunsari and Morang
Districts, and the link with research and training would be strengthened
through better organization, regular staff training, and technical back-
stopping. Extension services in each district, modelled after the T&V system,
would be headed by a District Agricultural Development Officer (DADO) who
would supervise field staff, comprising Junior Technicians (JTs), Junior
Technician Assistants (JTAs) and Panchayat Level Assistants (PLAs). Field
staff coverage and responsibility in each district would be as follows:
No. of Villages/                   No. of Farm
Staff       Staff         Panchayats      Area (ha)         Families
Designation  Supervised       Supervised      Supervised        Advised
JT        4-5 JTAs         30-40        50,000-68,000   9,000-16,000
JTA       5-6 PLAs          5-6          8,000-10,000   1,500-2,500
PLAs         -                1          1,700-2,000        500-700
This intensity would permit visits by PLAs on fixed days of every week to
each farmers' group, as well as strict supervision of all activities.
3.12      In support of staff training, five additional Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs) for Agronomy (paddy), Agronomy (other cereal crops), Irri-
gation, Plant Protection, and Agriculture Economics would be appointed. JTs
and JTAs, who are high school graduates with 1 to 2 years of formal training
in agriculture, would attend refresher courses once a month. PLAs, who are
selected farmers in the area with 3 weeks of initial intensive training,
would attend one week courses on major crops prior to each season, and regular
fortnightly classes on various cultivation practices and use of inputs. In
addition, seasonal seminars would be organized for the JTs, JTAs, and graduate
staff. Visits to other project areas in Nepal and India, where extension
services are working effectively would form part of the training.
3.13      In addition to basic research support from the Tarahara Agriculture
Station, the project would benefit from applied research, such as field trials
on foodgrain and cash crop varieties suitable for the area, conducted at
Jhumka Seed Multiplication Farm and on selected farms in the area. These
trials would also be used as demonstration for extension workers and contact
farmers. In support of the extension, training and research activities, the
project would provide vehicles for staff (para 3.14), equipment (para 3.14),
training centers, housing, offices and other buildings (para 3.15). During



- 16 -
the project implementation period, most of the extension, training and
research efforts would be concentrated in the CMC command area to ensure
effective utilization of irrigation supplies.
3.14      Equipment and Vehicles.  The project would provide equipment and
vehicles needed for force account construction; for survey, supervision,
operation and maintenance of the works; for agricultural extension, research
and monitoring; and for technical supporting services, as well as workshop
equipment for maintenance and repairs. Most of the equipment and vehicles
would have to be imported, together with spare parts and assemblies, and a
list of the estimated requirements is presented in Table 3.2.
3.15      Buildings and Facilities.  Additional low-cost technical and admin-
istrative offices, a laboratory, and a workshop would be built at the exist-
ing project headquarters in Biratnagar. Five additional construction-cum-
operations subcenters would be built in the CMC command area including offices,
equipment maintenance facilities, stores and housing. For the project and
regional engineering and administration training program (Annex 1), a train-
ing center with rooms (to seat 25 and 100), dormitories (total 25 beds) and
associated buildings would be built at Biratnagar. Ten sub-district centers
as well as two district offices and 31 quarters of inexpensive construction
would be built for some of the agricultural extension and research staff in
the Districts. To ensure effective operational control of the distribution
canals, an assurance has been obtained from HMGN that telecommunications
facilities would be installed and made operational not later than December 31,
1979.
3.16      Air Photography and Mapping.  The 20-year old, 1:15,840 scale maps
available for the project area are inadequate for detailed project planning.
To avoid a one-year delay, DIHM has already a arded a contract for 1:20,000
scale air photography covering about 1,100 km of the project area, and new
1:5,000 scale maps of 6,400 ha for the initial farm group development (FGD)
works. The mapping, financed from the on-going, IDA-assisted Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project, is being carried out by Certeza (Philippines) at a cost
of US$0.2 M. The work is expected to be completed by September 1978. The
project would provide for additional 1:5,000 scale mapping of 12,000 ha for
planning FGD works. In addition, some US$0.25 M would be provided under the
project for air photography and mapping of further irrigation projects in
Nepal.
3.17      Consultants.  To avoid delays in starting high-priority works, DIHM
has already negotiated agreements with consultants for detailed engineering of
the CMC restoration works, sediment control arrangements and Kosi river train-
ing works. Surveys and designs of the CMC works are to be carried out by Sir
Murdoch MacDonald and Partners Ltd (UK), and their activities would be financed
from the on-going, IDA-assisted Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project. Design
of the river and sediment control works will be the responsibility of Coode &
Partners (UK). Their work would be financed from the IDA-assisted Technical
Assistance Project, except for the hydraulic model studies of the river, which
will be financed by a grant from the UK. The proposed Credit would include
funds for project consultants (about 130 man-months at about US$6,500/m-m).



- 17 -
The latter would provide inservice training, advice and guidance to project
staff in project planning; preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation;
modern construction techniques; construction quality, progress and cost control.
These consultants would also advise HMGN staff during the preparation of fea-
sibility studies for further development of the project area. An assurance
has been obtained from HMGN that the project consultants would be employed
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to IDA. Their selection by SMIDDB in a manner satisfactory
to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.18      Future Feasibility Studies.  The subsequent stage of the Sunsari-
Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project would focus on detailed
development of the project area, which would be less complicated than the
first stage. An assurance has been obtained from HMGN that the DIHM and DA
would complete the feasibility studies of the subsequent stage of the devel-
opment, with assistance and advice from the project consultants (para 3.15),
by December 31, 1981. With the extension of the irrigated paddy area in the
wet season under the project (Figure 6.1), the watertable which is presently
between 0.3 and 4 meters from ground level may rise close to the surface in
about 3 to 5 years, causing temporary waterlogging of some land used for the
following dry season crops. Although soil drainage characteristics are satis-
factory in much of the area, in some of the command where waterlogging may
occur during the early part of the dry season, alternative cash crops with
lower irrigation requirements such as groundnuts and soybeans may have to be
planted on a larger scale during the wet season. However, little research is
being done on the feasibility of processing and marketing of these crops. An
assurance has been obtained from HMGN that the Department of Food and Agricul-
ture Marketing Services would complete a feasibility study of processing and
marketing for cash crops grown in the Terai, particularly in the project area
not later than December 31, 1981.
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
3.19      Irrigation Demand.  The controlling factor in irrigation demand
is t e conveyance capacity of CMC which, when it is restored, will be
45 m /sec. This design discharge may be exceeded by 10% for short periods
to meet peak requirements without damage to the canal. The extent of the
area which could be irrigated in the wet season would be mainly limited by
the canal capacity in relation to irrigation requirements of HYV and local
paddy, jute and sugarcane crops; in the dry season, limiting factors would
not be water supplies so much as the farming system and the availability of
well-drained land for HYV wheat. Table 3.3 shows the estimated irrigation
requirements for the main crops, using the modified Penman method. The
resultant monthly crop irrigation demands per hectare for the projected
cropping pattern (Table 6.1) are summarized below.
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr   May   Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec
---------Cubic meters per hectare of cultivated area--------
Monthly irri-
gation demand
at the field   296  219   -   463  1,014  813  698  311  723  405  194  242



- 18 -
Gross monthly diversion demands, and areas irrigable, are derived by taking
into account the overall irrigation efficiency estimated to vary from 29% at
present to 55% at full development (Table 3.4). On this basis, the resultant
net areas irrigable from the CMC during the wet season, with a peak water
requirement in May, would be about 35,000 ha at present and 66,000 ha on com-
pletion of the project. About 4,300 ha are irrigated during the dry season
at present, and about 14,000 ha would be under irrigation with the project.
3.20      Supply.  The Kosi river is subject to flash floods but has a reliable
dry season discharge. The flows in the river measured over the last 12 years
near the CMC intake at Chatra provide the following data:
Jan   Feb  Mar  Apr  May   Jun   Jul    Aug    Sep   Oct   Nov  Dec
-------------------Cubic meters per second ------------------------
Average
Flow       473  394  349  430  717  2,237 4,432  4,499  3,532 1,942  879  593
90% Pro-
bable
Flow       399  327  278  359  608  1,884 3,698  4,201  2,960 1,532  736  503
Require-
ment at
CMC in-
take        13   10  Clsd. 21   45       36    31      41      32    18    9   11
River flows would therefore be much more than sufficient to meet project
requirements at all times. In addition, under the Kosi Project Agreement
with India, Nepal has the right to divert as much water as is needed for
any purpose (para 2.01). Difficulties in supply which are anticipated due
to shoaling in the river would be rectified under the project (para 3.05).
Analysis of Kosi water samples taken at Chatra indicate that the supply is of
good quality throughout the year. Conductivity is about 100 micromhos per cm,
and pH is between 7 and 8, which classifies the water as suitable for pro-
longed use for irrigation.
Engineering Designs and Construction Methods
3.21      The design of river works and sediment control arrangements by con-
sultants would be based on modern hydraulic and fluvial process technology.
However, the structures would involve only traditional stonework and concrete
construction. For canal restoration and improvement works, designed by
consultants, cost-saving techniques would be used where appropriate, including
cementation of foundations (to avoid reconstruction), well-point dewatering
(in high watertable areas), and in-situ lining of leaking cross-drainage
syphons (to avoid dewatering the canals). Wet or heavy earthworks, including
canal embankments and sediment excavation, would be constructed mainly by
machinery, while most other works would be labor-intensive. Compaction of
earthwork would be mostly by machine. Innovations to be tested in pilot
schemes would include construction of seepage-proof irrigation channels in



- 19 -
lime-stabilized earth; field irrigation structures designed for prefabrication
and low-cost installation; and small-scale, low-head hydro-electric units
(hydels) for installation at canal falls and prefabricated for assembly at
remote sites.
Implementation Schedule
3.22      The project would be implemented between 1978 and 1983.  The pro-
posed construction program (Figure 3.3) takes into account existing irrigation
operations which must be continued during project implementation. The project
consultants and staff required for the first year's construction program would
be in post by October 1978. Basic accommodation and office buildings would
be constructed by June 1979. Subcenters and agricultural buildings would be
built in 1979/80. High priority works, such as sediment control, and CMC
restoration and improvements, would be started in early 1979 and completed
in 1980 and 1982, respectively. Next highest priority would be given to the
restoration of all distribution canals and structures, and construction of
additional control structures down to 100-ha outlets. These works, which
would be carried out progressively from CMC headreach to tail, would be
started in late 1979 and completed in 1983. Drainage improvements would have
to be started in late 1978, to ensure adequate drainage for farm group devel-
opment works scheduled for construction between 1980 and 1983. Equipment and
vehicles would be procured for delivery in 1979/80 to meet the requirements
of construction works as well as project operation. The rate of construction
expenditure is expected to increase from US$2.7 M equivalent in FY79 to
US$5.3 M in FY81. These rates lies within the planning, supervision and
control capacity of the estimated staff requirement and availability for the
project. Based on experience elsewhere in Nepal, including the NZ-I Project,
the construction program is realistic.
Environmental Effect
3.23      With the redistribution of irrigation supplies which the project
is designed to achieve, there will be less ponding of waste water in the
upper reaches of the distribution system. In addition, drainage of low-
lying areas would be improved. As a result, some of these areas would be
brought under cultivation and there would be a reduction in locations which
are malaria-prone.



- 20 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total project cost, estimated at US$37.5 M equivalent, including
about US$0.2 M in taxes and duties, is summarized below and detailed in Table
4.1. The foreign exchange component would be about US$20.5 M equivalent, or
55% of the project cost. Annual operation and maintenance costs on completion
of the project have been estimated and are presented in Table 4.2. The esti-
mated cif costs of equipment and vehicles needed for project construction,
operation and maintenance are listed in Table 3.2.
4.02      The estimated costs for civil works are based on recent contract
awards in the Terai, and unit prices for equipment and materials are based
on 1977 quotations from suppliers, cif Calcutta, with an allowance for trans-
portation to Biratnagar. Allowances have been included for four years' supply
of spare parts and assemblies, variously estimated at 10% to 60% of the equip-
ment value depending on its utilization factor, and with a weighted average
of 35% for mobile plant. Physical contingencies have been allowed for in
construction costs, varying from 10% to 30% depending on the state of pre-
paration of designs, with a weighted average of 18% (Table 4.1). Price
contingencies are estimated at about 18% of the project cost based on the
following inflation rates:
1978/79    1979/80    1980/81 - 1982/83
------------------ %0 ------------------
Civil Works and Services         8          7.5               7
Equipment                        7          6.5               6



- 21 -
Summarized Cost Estimates
(Exchange rate, NRs 12 = US$1.00)
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
------NRs million----    -----US$ million-----
Civil works and
buildings
River and sediment
control                13.2     18.0    31.2    1.1        1.5     2.6       59
Canal restoration
and improvement       58.8      66.0   124.8    4.9        5.5    10.4       53
Field canal, farm
group & drain-
age development       33.6      16.8    50.4    2.8        1.4     4.2       33
Pilot works               1.2       9.6    10.8    0.1       0.8     0.9       84
Buildings                 8.9       2.4    10.8    0.7       0.2     0.9       19
Subtotal          115.2    112.8   228.0    9.6        9.4    19.0        49
Equipment for
construction,
operation and
maintenance               -        44.4    44.4      -       3.7      3.7     100
Technical
services_                 3.6      13.2    16.8    0.3       1.1     1.4       80
Project estab-
lishment and
services                 20.4      12.0    32.4    1.7       1.0     2.7       36
Contingencies
Physical                 21.6      19.2    40.8    1.8       1.6     3.4       47
Price                    37.2     44.4    81.6    3.1       3.7      6.8       54
PROJECT COST      198.0    246.0   444.0   16.5    20.5    37.0          55
Land acquisition          3.6      -        3.6    0.3       -       0.3       -
Taxes  & duties           2.4      -        2.4    0.2       -       0.2       -
TOTAL PROJECT COST    204.0    246.0   450.0   17.0    20.5    37.5            55
Annual Expenditures
4.03      The estimated annual expenditures on project works, services, estab-
lishment and equipment are detailed in Table 4.3, and are summarized as follows:



- 22 -
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   Total
Total project expenditures          5.1    10.2   9.4    9.3    3.5        37.5
Financing Plan
4.04      The proposed IDA Credit of US$30.0 M equivalent would finance the
full foreign exchange cost of the project (US$20.5 M) and about 56% of local
costs, or about 80% of total project costs. HMGN would contribute most of the
remainder, with farmers providing labor estimated at US$0.3 M as shown in the
financing plan below:
Foreign Exchange    Local Currency           Total
US$M                 US$M                US$M
Equiv.         %     Equiv.       %      Equiv.       %
IDA contribution         20.5          100      9.5        56     30.0        80
HMGN contribution           -            -      7.2        42       7.2       19
Farmers contribution        -            -      0.3         2      0.3         1
Total Project Cost       20.5                  17.0                37.5
The relatively high proportion of local cost financing is justified because of
the strains already imposed on HMGN by the number of development projects. If
current trends continue, only 15% of public investment would be available for
financing minor public works or projects which are unlikely to attract foreign
aid, and these funds would be insufficient to meet Nepal's needs.
Procurement
4.05      Civil works would be grouped as follows:
(a) Kosi River Works (US$1.5 M) 1/. Although these works (para
3.03) would not be of sufficient size to be particularly
attractive to international contractors, they would require
expertise and resources beyond those available to Nepalese
contractors. They would therefore be procured as a pack-
age through international competitive bidding (ICB)
(b) Sediment Control and New Canal Structures (US$5 M) 1/. These
works comprising 70 structures extending over 50 km, are rela-
tively small, the largest costing about US$0.6 M. The works
would not attract large foreign contractors and would only be
suitable for locally advertised competitive bidding (LCB) with
participation by Nepalese and probably by Indian contractors,
1/   The amounts shown are the basic costs, net of physical and price contin-
gencies and establishment costs.



- 23 -
particularly as the construction season would be limited to
about six months in the year during the dry season canal
closure and low flow period. LCB would be in accordance
with HMGN procedures, as established in the IDA-assisted
Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone);
(c) Restoration of Canal Structures (US$7 M) 1/. These works,
comprising repairs to over 300 structures, would be spread
over 1,000 km and would be relatively small, the largest
being about US$0.3 M. Construction progress would be con-
strained by the need to keep canals flowing for at least
eight months in the year. As the type and quantity of work
would often be difficult to define at the outset, most of
the works would only be suitable for force account. Under
the guidance of consultants, project staff would be capable
of carrying out the works. Larger and well defined works
(about 50%) would be carried out under LCB as established
in Birganj Irrigation Project;
(d) Drainage Improvements (US$2.4 M) 1/. These widespread small
excavation works, mostly in flowing drains, would have to
be done by machinery which local contractors do not possess.
Since they would be unattractive to international contrac-
tors because of their dispersion, they would be carried
out by force account (about 60%). River flood protection
embankments in limited areas of the command would be con-
structed by LCB contracts; and
(e) Fields Canals and Drains (US$1.4 M) 1/. These works would
have to be implemented on an outlet command basis, over a
limited period of time so as to avoid interference with
crop cultivation. They would therefore be constructed
under small LCB contracts of about US$0.3 million each.
(f) Buildings (US$0.9 M). Then works would be carried out by
small LCB contracts.
Out of US$19.0 M 1/ of civil works and buildings, US$1.5 M would be con-
structed by ICB, US$12.5 M by LCB, and US$5.0 M by force account.
4.06      The estimated cost of equipment, vehicles, and spare parts for con-
struction, project operation and maintenance as well as survey and laboratory
equipment, is US$3.7 M 1/. Most of these are imported items and would be
procured under ICB contract. Items costing less than US$50,000 each and which
are not suitable for international tendering, would be purchased through normal
government procurement methods 2/ up to a limiting total of US$500,000 through
1/   The amounts shown are the basic costs, net of physical and price contin-
gencies and establishment costs.
2/   Contracts would be awarded to the lowest of at least three bids obtained
through local advertisements.



- 24 -
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Purchases under these arrangements
would be monitored during IDA supervision mission.
Disbursement
4.07      Disbursement from the Credit would be made against (a) 100% of the
foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment, vehicles, and spare parts;
(b) 100% of the exfactory price for equipment manufactured locally; (c) 75%
of total cost for imported equipment and materials procured locally under off-
the-shelf procedures; (d) 100% of technical services costs; and (e) 90% of total
expenditures on civil works and buildings. Disbursements for force account
works under item (e) above would be made against statements of expenditure
certified by the Project Manager (para 5.02). Supporting data for such state-
ments would be retained by the project and would be available for inspection
by IDA supervision missions. A schedule of estimated disbursements and the
proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit are presented in Table 4.4.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 1984, one year after the
completion of the project.
Accounts and Audit
4.08      Assurances were obtained that HMGN would cause the SMIDDB (a) to
maintain separate records to reflect the operations, resources and expendi-
tures in respect of the project, in accordance with sound accounting practices;
(b) to have its accounts and financial statements audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c) to send the certified copies of the
audited accounts and the auditor's report to IDA within six months after the
close of each fiscal year. The audit report would be required to include,
inter alia, a statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
had been used for the purpose for which they were provided.



- 25 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization (Figure 5.1)
5.01      In accordance with HMGN's established policy, organization experience
gained from NZ-1, and for effective implementation, a governing board would be
created for executing the proposed project under the Development Board Act of
1956. The Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Board (the Board)
would be an semi-autonomous agency. It would be chaired by the Secretary to
Government, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation with members including
representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Water and Power, Land Reform,
the Planning Commission, the Directors-General of DA and DIHM, Regional
Directors of DIHM and DA, (Eastern Region), and the Project Manager (Secretary).
The Board's functions would include: (a) approval of annual budget proposals
for executing the project; (b) staff appointments; (c) approval of award of
large contracts (para 5.04) and consultants' agreements; (d) semi-annual re-
views of implementation programs and progress; and (e) coordination of policy
m4atters on programming, budgeting and finance. The Board would be funded by
an annual budget allocation sufficient to cover all estimated project engi-
neering, agriculture and administrative costs. The Board would channel funds
to field management, headed by the Project Manager, who would then allocate
the budgeted funds to three wings under his supervision (para 5.03). The
establishment of the Board would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The
Board may invite the World Bank's Resident Representative to its meetings when
matters concerning IDA are on its agenda.
5.02      The PM, located at Biratnagar, would have overall responsibility for
(a) preparation of annual project work programs, budget and staffing schedules
to present to the Board; (b) administration of project staff, including con-
sultants; (c) authorization of works constructed by force account as well as
civil works and equipment contracts below authorized cost ceilings (para
5.04); and (d) coordination with agricultural activities at Regional and Dis-
trict levels. The PM would be a senior technical officer of high caliber
and appropriate experience. He would be assisted by a team of consultants
throughout project implementation (para 3.17). Appointment of the PM, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, and with appropriate terms
of reference, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.03      Under the PM, three wings would be established.  The Planning and
Control Wing (PCW), headed by a senior Superintending Engineer who would also
be the Deputy Project Manager, would comprise five divisions to be responsible
for: (a) overall planning of engineering and agricultural activities, co-
ordination, training and evaluation; (b) surveys and designs; (c) procurement
and contract matters; (d) monitoring progress and costs and testing the quality
of constructions carried out by force account and by contractors; and (e)
administration and finance. The Engineering Wing (EW), headed by a Super-
intending Engineer, would comprise six divisions mainly responsible for all
irrigation construction, operation and maintenance work, including the use of
mechanical equipment, and the development of groups of farms of about 10 ha



- 26 -
beyond the field canal outlets.  The Agriculture Wing (AW), headed by a Senior
Agriculture Officer (SAO) would have two divisions responsible for extension
activities and one division for applied research, training, and monitoring of
agricultural progress. The SAO would have overall responsibility for exten-
sion activities in both Sunsari and Morang Districts and supervise adaptive
research conducted in the project area (para 3.13) in collaboration with
various agriculture stations in Nepal (para 1.07). He would report on tech-
nical matters to the Regional Director of Agriculture, Eastern Region. How-
ever, he would be primarily responsible to the PM on administrative matters,
such as work performance of staff and budget. In view of imperative needs for
effective extension activities, appointment of the SAO, with qualifications,
experience and TORs satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Extension services in Sunsari and Morang Districts would con-
tinue to operate under the project until the proposed national agricultural
extension service has been established, staffed and become fully effective
(para 1.06). At such time HMGN, in agreement with IDA, would incorporate the
extension activities related to both Districts into the national extension
services organization.
5.04      District and regional level coordination between the project and
various agencies (Figure 5.2) would be through existing coordination committees
(DCC) in Sunsari and Morang. This coordination provides opportunities to con-
fer on rural development, road construction or improvement, agricultural input
and credit supplies, marketing, and power supplies. Coordination committees
would coopt a project representative when matters of direct concern to the
project are on meeting agenda.
Staffing and Training
5.05      Staffing.  The technical staff needed to carry out the implementation
program would be approximately as follows:



- 27 -
Required Numbers of Staff
Staff                          FY78/79  FY79/80  FY80/81  FY81/82  FY82/83
Superintending Engineers              1         2         2        2         2
Executive Engineers                   3         5         5         5        5
Assistant Engineers                  12        20        25       25        25
Overseers                            36        40        50       50        50
Agricultural Extension
and Training Officers               6         6         6        6         6
Subject Matter Specialists            2         7         7        7         7
JTs and JTAs                         29        31        31       31        31
PLAs                                 40       116       116      116       116
An assurance was obtained from HMGN that the project would be staffed general-
ly in accordance with a staffing plan satisfactory to IDA (such as the above
schedule), and subject to review and revision, as necessary, during supervision.
5.06      Training.  In addition to the on-the-job training provided by pro-
ject consultants, a provisional program for formal in-service and short-term
overseas training of engineering, agricultural and administration staff has
been formulated (Annex 1). Most of the training would take place at the
training center, to be provided under the project (para 3.13), which would
be administered and maintained by the project authority. In accordance with
HMGN's established practice, funds for formal training which involve foreign
exchange, such as short-term overseas training, would not be included under
the proposed credit. An assurance was obtained from HMGN that the provisional
training activities would be carried out in accordance with a plan satisfac-
tory to IDA.
Operation and Maintenance
5.07      With the benefits of in-service training to be provided by the
consultants, project staff would be capable of operating and maintaining all
project works effectively including the river control and sediment control
works. Each of the four divisions of the Engineering Wing (EW) (Figure 5.1)
would be responsible for the control of all canals in their jurisdictions
(Upper and Lower CMC, and East and West parts of the distribution network)
for the duration of the project. The Upper CMC Division would also be re-
sponsible for the Kosi River control works and the CMC intake. Within each
tertiary outlet, serving groups of farms of 50 to 100 ha, a water users' group
(WUG) would be established for water distribution purposes. Distribution would
be based on timed rotational deliveries proportional to individual holdings.
Before each crop season, a distribution program would be formulated and agreed
by the PCW and representatives of the WUG's concerned. The EW would release
water down to tertiary outlets according to the agreed program, and distribu-
tion of water beyond these outlets would be carried out by the concerned WUGs,
as has been successfully practiced in NZ-I Project. An assurance was obtained
that water would not be released to areas commanded by any field canal until a
water users' group has been formed on the field canal and sound distribution
routines established.



- 28 -
5.08      The PCW would be responsible for the preparation of maintenance
schedules of all canals and structures of the system, with the assistance of
the project consultants. An assurance has been received from HMGN that SMIDDB
would prepare a comprehensive Operation and Maintenance Manual for the CMC
system, and would furnish it in draft to IDA by March 1, 1980, and in its
final form by October 1, 1981. Four divisions of the EW would maintain the
network down to field canal outlets. Such maintenance would include regular
desilting and weed clearance to maintain the designed discharge capacities
throughout the system. Gauges would be installed at syphons to enable detec-
tion and clearance of obstructions due to sediment, trees or drowned animals.
Beyond the field canal outlets, the maintenance of channels and drains would
be the responsibility of WUGs, under the supervision of project staff. Assur-
ances have been received from HMGN that funds and facilities required for
adequate maintenance and repair of the CMC system would be provided promptly
as needed; that views would be exchanged with IDA on a yearly basis on the
amount of such funds required annually; and that by July 31 each year IDA
would receive a copy of the annual operation and maintenance budget for the
system.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.09      The project staff would be responsible for project monitoring.  The
works would include: (a) continuous testing of materials and the quality
achieved in civil works, under the guidance of the project consultants who
would carry out 10% of the tests themselves; (b) monitoring of the project
implementation progress and costs of the works; (c) observations of the
behavior of the Kosi river and sediment inflow into the CMC; (d) measurements
of canal discharges and losses; (e) annual compilation of change in cropping
patterns and yields and the impact of extension services; and (f) monthly
observation of the depth to watertable from the ground level. Detailed
descriptions of the monitoring and reporting requirements are presented in
Annex 2.
5.10      Bench mark surveys of present farm practices, cropping pattern,
yields and characteristics of farm households were carried out during project
preparation. To provide a measure of progress and to evaluate the changes
in the above aspects of the farming scene as a result of the project, the
Evaluation and Project Analysis Division (EPAD) of the DA, assisted by con-
sultants, would carry out studies at appropriate intervals. This Division
has staff capable of carrying out such surveys, and has already completed
several similar studies satisfactorily for various agricultural projects in
Nepal. An assurance has been received from HMGN that, on the basis of the
above annual agricultural monitoring reports and the surveys, EPAD would
prepare two comprehensive agricultural and economic evaluation studies of the
project, the first to be furnished to IDA by June 30, 1983, and the second by
June 30, 1986. An assurance was also received from HMGN that the Board would
prepare and furnish to IDA a report on the execution, completion and initial
operation of the project, with coverage as proposed in Annex 2 concerning the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, within six months after final
disbursement of the Credit.



- 29 -
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
Cropping Pattern and Yields
6.01      Although the project provides extension, research and training
to both Sunsari and Morang Districts, most of the agricultural benefits
would primarily come from the CMC command area (para. 3.13). Consequently,
project impact on farm production has been analyzed for this area alone. At
present only about 35,000 ha (or 53%) of the area is irrigated, because of
canal defects (para 2.06). The project would restore the conveyance capacity
of the system, enabling water to be delivered to 66,000 ha. Reliability and
quantity of irrigation deliveries would be improved throughout the system
especially in the area where canals are extended to farm groups of about 10 ha
(6,400 ha).
6.02      On the basis of the agro-economic survey (para 5.11), district
statistics and discussions with agricultural officers and farmers, the present
and projected cropping pattern and yields are estimated as follows (Table
6.1):
Present            Future Without            Future With
Area   Yields        Area       Yields        Area    Yields
(%)   (ton/ha)       (%)       (ton/ha)       (%)    (ton/ha)
/a   /a                 (a   /a               ,/a  I/a
Total  RF- IO-    Total    RF- 10-            Total   I12-
Local Paddy    70   1.1   1.5         65     1.3    1.8       65    2.1   2.3
HYV Paddy        2   1.6   2.0         7     2.0    2.4       15    2.7   3.0
Jute            30   1.0   1.1       30      1.1    1.5       30    1.5   2.0
Wheat            6   0.8   1.1         6     1.0    1.5       10    1.8   2.5
Pulses           2   0.4   0.5         2     0.5    0.6        3    0.6   0.8
Oilseeds         2   0.4   0.5         2     0.4    0.6        3    0.6   0.8
Vegetables       4   8.0    -         4      8.7      -        4   10.0  15.0
Sugarcane        2  15.0  17.0        2    16.0   20.0         4   22.0  28.0
/a   RF = rainfed.  IO = present irrigation.  I1 = partially improved
irrigation, resulting from canal development down to tertiary outlets
and extension. I2 = fully improved irrigation, resulting from the
development down to farm level and extension.
6.03      In the "future without project" situation, except for a small shift
from local paddy area to HYVs, no significant change would be expected from the
present cropping pattern, but yields would increase slightly. In the "future
with project" situation, total cropping intensity would be expected to increase
by 15%, and more HYV of paddy and wheat would be grown. Paddy yields would
increase considerably, but in areas with canal improvements only down to ter-
tiary outlets (59,600 ha), yield increase would be less than in areas where
the distribution system is to be extended down to the farm level (6,400 ha),
due to less reliable water supplies.



- 30 -
6.04      Although wheat would be grown on a larger area than at present, the
total area of wheat under the project would still be relatively small, since
its cultivation would interfere with traditional practices of grazing animals
in the command area during the dry season. In addition, since farmers in
the area are slow to adopt proper wheat irrigation practices, such as field
ridging, the projected yields are well below the potential of 3.5 tons per ha.
Jute, sugarcane, pulses and oilseeds yields would increase under the project
but their areas would remain the same or increase only slightly due to slow
expansion of processing facilities and their limited market prospects.
Vegetables would continue to be grown in the lighter soil areas, and with some
irrigation, their yields would increase significantly.
Incremental Production
6.05      The annual incremental production at full development (about mid-
1980's) is expected to be as follows:
Incremental
Future Without   Future With   Production
'000 tons       '000 tons    '000 tons
(1)              (2)         (2)-(1)
Rice                  51.0           78.8          27.8
Wheat                  5.4           12.5           7.1
Pulses                 0.7            1.4           0.7
Total Foodgrains   57.1            92.7          35.6
Jute                  26.0           30.9           4.9
Sugarcane             17.6           57.8          40.2
Oilseeds               0.7             1.4          0.7
Vegetables            20.8           32.0          11.2
Input Requirements
6.06      Present and projected input requirements are presented in Table 6.2.
The present cultivation system is based on low input, risk minimizing cul-
tivation practices. Farmers are not willing to invest heavily in chemical
fertilizers and pesticides under rainfed or unpredictable water supply situ-
ation. Instead, they either apply insufficient amount of chemical fertilizers
or use farm-yard manure. Land preparation is carried out by manual labor with
animal power and simple implements. Under "future without project" situation,
only limited changes in cultivation practices are assumed to take place. With
reliable irrigation and effective agricultural extension services, farmers
are likely to use more high-yielding varieties which would require greater
amounts of fertilizer and pesticides. As the AIC and Sahja cooperatives have
been expanding input supply facilities in the project area (para 2.20), these
increases in input demand would be adequately met. As a result of the project,
labor requirements would increases from some 9.3 M man-days at present to
12.9 M man-days which would be covered by projected labor supply of 38.3 M
man-days at full development. During the months of June and July, the peak
demand for hired labor would be provided for by migrant labor from the neigh-
boring Indian State of Bihar and from the Hills, where unemployment is severe.



- 31 -
Market Prospects
6.07      The main agricultural products which are marketed in the project
area are cereals (rice, wheat), jute and sugarcane. Until access to the Hills
can be greatly improved and the Hill people's purchasing power can be increased,
India would continue to be the major market outlet for absorbing s_.rplus from
the Terai including the project-related increase of 35,600 tons of foodgrains.
Although no market outlet problems are envisaged for Nepalese rice in the near
future, when India achieves food self-sufficiency, Nepal might have to explore
alternative markets. This would oblige Nepal to cultivate better rice varie-
ties that are suitable for competing in international markets. Research has
been carried out at Parwanipur Research Station (para 1.07) to improve rice
qualities in Nepal. About 90% of jute production would be exported to a
Western Europe and the United States.    Recently, with the neighboring
People's Republic of China emerging as a major importer, the project's incre-
mental production would be easily absorbed. A sugar mill in the project area
is operated below capacity and there would be no difficulty in processing the
increased amount of sugarcane. Furthermore, in view of the present low annual
per capita consumption of the sugar in the Terai (3 kg compared to 5 or 6 kg
in India and Pakistan), the project-related increase would be easily absorbed
in domestic markets.
Prices
6.08      Economic Prices.  For economic analysis, the estimated future farm
gate prices of internationally traded agricultural inputs and outputs have
been derived from the Bank's projected 1985 world market prices (expressed in
1977 currency values) with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and
processing. The economic prices of pulses and vegetables, which are not
traded internationally, have been derived by applying the long-term average
ratio between the financial prices of these crops and paddy to the projected
economic price of paddy. In order to take into account the existing import
and export taxes, as well as trade restrictions, a Standard Conversion Factor
(SCF) of 0.8 is applied to the non-traded component of various inputs and
outputs, this is approximately consistent to a shadow exchange rate of
NRs 15.60. Details on the methodology for deriving SCF are given in Annex 3.
6.09      Financial Prices.  The main determinants of farm-gate prices have
been the domestic supply and demand position, local weather conditions and
prevailing cross border prices. A high degree of uncertainty in these para-
meters makes the task of projecting financial prices particularly difficult.
In addition, the historical data on wholesale prices for all crops are not
available. Consequently, for the financial analysis, the average of farm
gate prices prevailing in the last two years has been used.



- 32 -
6.10      Prices for economic and financial analysis are summarized below:
Crops              Unit            Economic Prices/          Financial Prices
Paddy, rice          NRs/ton                2,300                    1,400
Wheat                NRs/ton                2,600                    1,600
Jute                 NRs/ton                2,300                    2,000
Oilseeds             NRs/ton                4,000                    3,500
Sugarcane            NRs/ton                  360                      230
Vegetables           NRs/ton                1,900                    1,500
Pulses               NRs/ton                3,700                    2,500
Inputs
Nitrogen /b          NRs/ton                6,000                    5,300
Phosphate /c         NRs/ton               4,200                     4,500
Potash /d            NRs/ton                2,100                    2,600
Farm Labor           NRs/m-d                  2.5 /c                      6
Animal Power         NRs/a-d /f                 3                        4
/a   Bases for deriving economic prices of outputs and inputs are presented
in Annex 3, Table 1.
/b   Urea
/c   Triple Superphosphates
/d   Muriate of Potash
/e   This represents average incremental cost of labor per man-day, the
methodology for deriving economic cost of labor is presented in Annex 4.
/f   Cost per animal-day.



V iI,w FIN>ANCIAL ArtLSV?T
7)01      Aualyses have been carried out to deterxine:  t.) the farm iACQ0es
for representative fare  isas in -orer to establish  I:ether, under the proecrt,,
icoames would be sufficient to conpessate teners for the producti  costs
Wtcarred; () the distribu4tnsj impact of the project and the change in
i}e  distribution that it wuld bring about  in the proj et area; ad (c) the
AbiIity of farmers to pay water charges. Aes&lta   are  r*esnted in te tollow
ag pararaps.
70         intividual farm  utgetas (Anex 3(   >e Leer -pmaxad lor f-o*r
r*r    teves  am  sizes:          gal (0,67 ka or I big)   so-al  (290 ha),
-wdiu (A. ha), and large (O ta.) Since voly 5M of the project arim
receives water at pres3t, the impact of the projvt o  indivi"L farm
tas been analysed  for three Situtios$     () VS*tustln IT represeAts a change
from nindeda zo partialy is*roved -Irr,iZated iW-tevatTW resulting from s
aresianasd =aal. trial           town to tertiary oetiets; -) Stzntilon U1
rpre*sets A  cthne from a cotint ion of rntefd a. preg,eat
practie to pmtitlly improved -sirrigated e.t L            ^ior     *a 4ad
(c) Si i   Il reset  a                  f    Presenti1  -.  r iegata  practa. te
fatl  imroe  irgad cutivin  result La  fe  e; ns onad  aa
4evelopoesta ,ut to Lar  level.
S.3      Lutiust.. of present and projocted farm inC~af are            te
--   r sWIncome  (S)
------- NeL.
Future               Futux 
Farm
Size (ha)       ---Present (P)---      Without Project (W)  With Project (W)
I      II       III      I      II       III    I&II      III
0.67         1,230   1,420    1,300   1,420  1,760   1,660   2,340   3,060
2.0         2,590   2,860    2,810   3,010  3,280   3,760   5,800   7,230
4.0          3,660   4,350    5,250   4,100  5,320   7,500   8,550  14,700
7.0         4,910   6,740    7,650   6,170  7,740  12,220  13,560  22,210
The relative increase in net farm incomes for various farm sizes due to the
project would be as follows:



- 34 -
-----------Relative Increase (%)------------
Situation I    Situation II    Situation III
W-P  W-W        W-P   w-w        W-P    W-W
Farm (ha)             p                p     W          P      W
0.67                  90   65        65    33         135     84
2.0                  106   78        87    63         141     80
4.0                  120   96        85    51         170     89
7.0                  151  100        83    60         190     82
Net farm incomes would more than double from the present level to those in
"future with project" Situations I and III. Net farm incomes would increase
about 70% in Situation II. Since the higher cropping intensity and yields
would result in greater opportunity for employment in the project area, income
level of landless laborers would likely increase.
Distributional Effect
7.04      Farm income figures, which include the imputed value of home con-
sumption estimated at farm gate prices, would have to be adjusted for the
difference between farm gate prices and local retail prices to determine
the distributional effect. Furthermore, non-farm incomes and other charges
besides production cost would have to be included in the analysis. The aver-
age per capita income 1/ would increase from about NRs 750 (US$60) to NRs
1,400 (US$110) as a result of the project. The anticipated change in income
distribution, including that of landless farm households is presented below: 2/
1/   Based on the agro-economic survey in the area, the following family size
is used to determine per capita income: 4.7, 5.1, 5.8 and 8.4 people
for 0.67 ha, 2.0 ha, 4.0 ha and 7.0 ha, respectively.
2/   Present income levels of landless laborers are unknown.  For the purpose
of the analysis, incomes are assumed to be similar to those of marginal
farmers.



- 35 -
Percentage of Farm Households
Net per capita
income level                              Future        Future
(in 1977 prices)                Present   Without         With
Less than:
Minimum Subsistence
Requirements (US$65) /a         83         80            68
Critical Consumption
Level (US$80) /b                90         85            72
/a Assuming the rural minimum level of living (absolute poverty
level) estimated for Uttar Pradesh of Indian rupees 14.50
(NRs 20.15) in 1960-61 prices.
/b Estimate about two-thirds of the average per capital income.
Cost Recovery
7.05      The capital cost of the project amounts to about NRs 370.0 M (Table
4.1) or about NRs 5,600 per ha. At 10% rate of interest over a 50-year
period, the annual payment to recover capital costs with interest is estimated
at NRs 565 per ha. Annual O&M cost after project completion would be about
NRs 135 per ha (Table 4.2). Consequently, the total annual payment would be
NRs 700 per ha in 1977 prices.
7.06      The Nepal Irrigation Act of 1967 provides HMGN with the legal
authority to levy charges on users of publicly constructed surface and ground-
water irrigation works. Since 1975, HMGN has increased the water charge from
NRs 6 to NRS 60 per ha per crop, and this is applied to all surface irrigation
system in Nepal.
7.07      For the assessment of farmers' ability to pay water charges, net
incremental income and project rent (Annex 3) have been estimated. At full
development, the average incremental income and project rent for all farm
sizes are as follows:
Area with development Area with development
down to tertiary        down to farm level
outlets (59,600 ha)           (6,400 ha)
-__---------------- NRs -------------------
Net Incremental Income                   1,000                    1,600
Project Rent                               600                   1,370



- 36 -
7.08      The prevailing water charge, estimated at NRs 80 per ha per year
when based on the projected cropping pattern, amounts to 8% of net incremental
income and 14% of project rent in Situation I & II; 5% and 6% in Situation II,
respectively. Full cost recovery would account for 70% of net incremental
income and 117% of the project rent in Situation I & II; 44% and 51% in
Situation III. The analysis indicates that although there would be scope for
increasing water rates significantly, full cost recovery would stretch the
majority of beneficiaries' ability to pay too far. A progressive charge sys-
tem based on the stage of development is desirable in view of higher benefits
in Situation III. However, this is difficult to enforce, particularly when
Nepal does not have adequate manpower to administrate such a complex program.
7.09      In view of increased benefits from irrigation, the water charges
have to be increased. The increase would have to be gradual as HMGN has
recently raised its water rate. Assurances have been received that (a) by
July 1, 1983 HMGN would establish, maintain and collect water charges on irri-
gated land under the project, at levels sufficient to cover the cost of operat-
ing and maintaining the project's irrigation and drainage systems, and (b) at
three years intervals, HMGN would review water charges with the intention of
gradually increasing the rate to recover full O&M costs and a reasonable portion
of capital costs after taking into account farmers' ability to pay, incentives
for their participation in the project and the need for public savings to
finance other development activities.



- 37 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
8.01      Agricultural production generated from the existing irrigation sys-
tem is far less than expected due to: (a) reduction in the canal conveyance
capacity; (b) distribution losses and waste; (c) unreliable water supplies;
and (d) ineffective agricultural supporting services. The project would
relieve these deficiencies and, in turn, substantially increase agricultural
production and rural employment opportunities.
8.02      The overall impact of the project at full development can be
summarized as follows:
Increase in net irrigated area (ha)                   31,000
Increase in crop areas under irrigation (ha)          49,300
Increase in net foreign exchange earnings (US$)   2M per year
Farm employment generated (jobs)                      10,000
Non-farm employment generated (jobs)                  5,000-7,000
8.03      The various components of the project are interdependent and have,
therefore, been evaluated as a package. However, where possible, benefits
and cost associated with each of the components have been analyzed separately.
Assumptions underlying the economic evaluation are presented in Annex 2.
Results of the analysis are detailed below and in Table 8.1.
Economic Evaluation of Investment Package
8.04      The economic costs of all civil works (except for pilot works);
technical services (except for air photography and feasibility studies since
these affect future projects in Nepal); equipment; administration and engi-
neering; and operation and maintenance have been included in the analysis.
Discounting costs and benefits over a 50-year period, the economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project is estimated at 17%.
Economic Evaluation of Project Components
8.05      Benefits associated with each of the components is conservatively
estimated from the present crop areas and yields under irrigation since the
"future with project" situation reflects a combined effect of all works.
Assuming a 50-year life for the existing system, the various ERRs are
estimated below.
8.06      CMC Sediment Control.  The main benefit from CMC sediment control
works (para 3.06), some 7% of project cost, would be to shorten the number and
duration of canal closures (caused by excessive sediment content in the river
water and heavy deposits in CMC), and thus to prevent production losses due to
reduction in crop yields. Based on past records of closures (Table 2.1), the
average annual economic loss of production which would be prevented by these



- 38 -
works is estimated at NRs 7.0 M. Assuming the present pattern of closure
would continue unless these works were installed and that other works were
not implemented, the ERR is estimated at 28%.
8.07      CMC Restoration and Improvements.  The restoration works on CMC
(para 3.07) some 38% of project cost would have two effects: (i) to increase
water supplies in the area by restoring the designed conveyance capacity of CMC;
and (ii) to improve the reliability of irrigation deliveries by reducing the
frequency of canal closures resulting from breaches and structural defects
(Table 2.1). With respect to (i), the restoration works would increase CMC
conveyance efficiency from 75% at present to 85%, and the overall irrigation
efficiency from about 29% to 33% if other works were not implemented (Table
3.4). This would result in an additional irrigated area of 5,000 ha, with a
net value of production of NRs 10 M at full development. For simplicity, the
same rate of benefit build up assumed for the whole project is used in the
analysis. With respect to (ii), the restoration works would prevent an annual
economic production loss which is conservatively estimated at about NRs 9.0 M.
The two effects would yield an ERR of 14%.
8.08      Secondary and Tertiary Canal Restoration.  The works on these canals
some 18% of project cost would improve the reliability of irrigation deliveries.
The estimated distribution efficiency of this part of the system would increase
from 70% at present to 85%, and the overall irrigation efficiency from about
29% to 35% if other works were not implemented. This would result in an addi-
tional irrigated area of 7,000 ha. The value of the incremental area and
benefits build up are estimated on the same basis as in para 8.06. The ERR
of this component would be about 18%.
8.09      Kosi River Control.  Works on the Kosi river to direct part of the
flow towards the CMC intake (para 3.05) some 10% of project cost would prevent
the project water supply from being cut off during the dry season. Based on
present irrigation benefits during the dry season, the annual economic pro-
duction loss if the works were not implemented is conservatively estimated at
NRs 2.0 M. With an economic investment cost of NRs 13.7 M, the ERR of this
component would be about 15%.
8.10      Field Canals and Farm Group Development.  Distribution system
development down to individual farm some 10% of project cost would result in
both higher yields and increased water availability. Under the project, these
works would be implemented throughout 6,400 ha (para 3.08). The economic
evaluation of this component is based on the difference in yields under a
fully developed situation and a partially developed system, and the cropping
pattern projected for 6,400 ha (Table 6.1). If other works were not imple-
mented the ERR of this component would be about 25%.
8.11      Drainage Improvement.  The drainage improvement some 14% of project
cost would affect about 17-20% of the present paddy area. Provision of drain-
age would reduce the damage due to inundation after heavy rainfall during
tillering periods. It is estimated that, with drainage, paddy yield would
increase by about 10%. If other works were not implemented, in economic terms,



- 39 -
this would provide an annual production gain of at least NRs 2.5-3.0 M. With an
economic investment cost about NRs 30 M, the IRR of this component would be
about 8-10%.
8.12      Extension Services.  Two major factors determine the benefits of
extension in the project area:  (i) the average yield increaoe by farmers
who consistently follow extension advice; and (ii) the number of farmers who
adopt improved techniques. Experiences from the T&V program so far have
indicated that after two years some 20% to 30% of the farmers would be fol-
lowers who obtain yield increases of some 10-20%. Conservatively, it has
been assumed that about 20% of the farmers within the project area would be
followers with yield increases of some 10-20%. If other works were not imple-
mented, on the average, this would increase the annual value of production by
NRs 90-180 per ha compared to the annual cost of NRs 20 per ha. Consequently,
the benefits cost ratio for the extension program some 3% of project cost
would be highly favorable.
Sensitivity Analysis Risks
8.13      Sensitivity analysis was used to determine which variables would
be most crucial to the viability of the project. The critical value of each
variable, ceteris paribus, that give an ERR about 10% are identified below:
Variable                                      Critical value
(i) Assumption of future yield
per ha (with project)                         -10%
(ii)  Output prices                                 -30%
(iii)  Standard conversion factor (SCF)              +38% a/
(iv)  Input prices                                  +100%
(v)  Construction costs                            +150%
(vi)  Combination of:
Net benefits                                -25%
Construction cost                           +75%
(vii) Combination of:
Net benefits                                -25%
All costs                                   +50%
(viii)  Delays in farmers' response                    12 years after project
(slower full development)                       completion
(ix) Delays in construction
(construction period)                         10 years
a/   This represents SCF = 1.1.



- 40 -
8.14      The ERR is most sensitive to the assumptions made about future
yields under the "with project" situation, output prices and standard con-
version factor, and is least sensitive to increased construction costs.
Although projected crop yields "with project" are conservative relative to
that under "future without project" situation, the analysis indicates a need
for an effective agricultural extension service in the area. The performance
of agricultural extension services would be carefully monitored under the
project. Another possible risk is that the watertable in the command area
might eventually rise to such high levels as to reduce dry season crop yields
(para 3.18). Although neither widespread waterlogging nor salinity problems
are necessarily expected to occur, the project would provide for monitoring of
the watertable (Annex 2) to provide early warning of any such hazard.



- 41 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Agreements have been reached with HMGN that:
(a)  for effective operational control of the canal distribution
system, telecommunications facilities would be installed and
completed not later than December 31, 1979 (para 3.15);
(b)  project consultants would be employed whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.17);
(c)  the DIHM and DA would complete the feasibility studies of
the subsequent stage of development by December 31, 1981
(para 3.18);
(d)  the Department of Food and Agricultural Marketing Services
would complete a feasibility study of processing and market-
ing for cash crops grown in the Terai, particularly in the
project area, not later than December 31, 1981;
(e)  SMIDDB would (i) maintain separate records to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
project, in accordance with sound accounting practices;
(ii) have its accounts and financial statements audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
(iii) send the certified copies of the audited accounts
and the auditors' report to IDA within six months after
the close of each fiscal year (para 4.08);
(f)  the project would be staffed generally in accordance with a
staffing plan satisfactory to IDA, and subject to review and
revision, as necessary, during supervision (para 5.05);
(g)  the provisional training activities would be carried out in
accordance with a plan satisfactory to IDA (para 5.06);
(h)  water would not be released to areas commanded by any field
canal until a water users' group has been formed on the
field canal and sound distribution routines established
(para 5.07);
(i)  SMIDDB would prepare a comprehensive Operation and Main-
tenance Manual for the CMC system, and would furnish it
in draft to IDA by March 1, 1980, and in its final form
by October 1, 1981 (para 5.08);



- 42 -
(j) funds and facilities required for adequate maintenance and
repair of the CMC system would be provided promptly as needed;
that views would be exchanged with IDA on a yearly basis on
the amount of such funds required annually; and that by July 31
each year IDA would receive a copy of the annual cperation and
maintenance budget for the system (para 5.08);
(k) EPAD would prepare two comprehensive agricultural and economic
evaluation studies of the project, the first to be furnished
to IDA by June 30, 1983, and the second by June 30, 1986
(para 5.10);
(1) SMIDDB would prepare and furnish to IDA a report on the execution,
completion and initial operation of the project with coverage as
proposed (Annex 2), concerning the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, within six months after final disbursement of the
Credit (para 5.10);
(m)  by July 1, 1983 HMGN would establish, maintain and collect
water charges on irrigated land under the project, at levels
sufficient to cover the cost of operating and maintaining the
project's irrigation and drainage systems (para 7.09);
(n) at three year intervals, HMGN would review water charges with
the intention of gradually increasing the rate to recover full
operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable proportion
of capital costs, after taking into account farmers' ability
to pay, incentives for their participation in the project and
the need for public savings to finance other development
activities (para 7.09).
9.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) the project consultants had been selected by SMIDDB in a
manner satisfactory to IDA (para 3.17);
(b) the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Board
has been established (para 5.01);
(c) the Project Manager has been appointed, with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA, and with appropriate
terms of reference (para 5.02);
(d) the Senior Agricultural Officer had been appointed, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA and with
appropriate terms of reference (para 5.03).
9.03      With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$30 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



-43-
TABLE 2.1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Record of CMC Breaches and Closures
Branch and Secondary
Canals affected        Flow         Duration    Irrigated
Year           Occurrence               Lo-(RD-2/           by Closure         Reduction        Days   Area Affected, Ha.
EM-(RD)-
1970    Breach, September              12.8 (RD42)            7-28 Sec.           100%           19          22,060
Reduction, September        0-12.8 (RDO-42)       1 Br- 6 Sec.            50%            16          7,140
1971    Breach, August                 12.8 (RD42)            7-28 Sec.           100%            7          22,060
Reduction, August          0-12.8 (RDO-42)        1 Br- 6 Sec.            50%             7          7,140
Breach, September              9.7 (RD32)         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             6         35,000
1972    Breach, July-August            11.6 (RD38)         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%           20          35,000
Kosi sed't, September           0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             7         35,000
1973    Kosi sed't, September            0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.          100%             9          35,000
1974    Struct'l rep., Jan..             0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.          100%            20          35,000
Struct'l rep., Feb.             0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%           14          35,000
Kosi sed't, July                0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             6         35,000
Kosi sed't, August              0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             4         35,000
Breach, August                28.6 (RD94)           13-28 Sec.            70%           11          10,790
Kosi sed't, August              0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             4         35,000
Kosi sed't, September           0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             4         35,000
1975    Kosi sed't, July-Aug.            0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.          100%             6          35,000
Breach, August                12.8 (RD42)            7-28 Sec.           100%           16          22,060
Kosi sed't, Aug.                0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             4         35,000
Breach, Sept.                 28.6 (RD94)           13-28 Sec.           100%           11          10,790
Kosi sed't Sept.                0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             4         35,000
1976    Kosi sed't, July                 0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.          100%             3         35,000
CMC blocked, July              0.6 (RD2)          1 Br-28 Sec.           100%           15          35,000
Breach, July-Aug.             11.9 (RD39)            7-28 Sec.            70%           20          22,060
Bank slips, July         9.7-25.3 (RD32-83)       1 Br-28 Sec.            50%           10          35,000
Canal leak, July              36.9 (RD121)          19-28 Sec.           100%             7          5,570
Kosi sed't, Aug.                0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             4         35,000
Bank slips, Aug.           25.3-29 (RD83-95)        10-28 Sec.            50%           10          15,140
Breach, Sept.                 32.3 (RD106)           8-28 Sec.           100%             4         21,840
Kosi sed't, Sept.               0  Intake         1 Br-28 Sec.           100%             4         35,000
May 1978
I/Kilometers from CMC intake.
-/Feet ('000) from CMC intake.



-44-                                  TABLE 3.1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Irrigation and Drainage Works
Quantity         No. to be repaired,    Number to be
Structure                   Originally built  restored or modified  rebuilt or added
A.  Kosi River Works
1. Supply channel guide island                  -                      -                      1
2. Left bank reclamation                        -                      -                      1
3. Sluice gate structure                        -                      -                      1
4. Intake flood protection bund                 -                      -                      1
B.  Chatra Main Canal (CMC) (50.4 km)
1. Head regulator                               1
2. Coarse sediment dredge basin                 -                      -                      1
3. Torrent superpassages                        6                      4                      2
4. Railway crossing                             1                      1
5. Gravity sediment ejector                     -                      -                      1
6. Main canal aqueducts                        36                     36
7. Main canal syphons                           2                      2
8. Control cross-regulators                    11                     11                      2
9. Branch canal head regulators                 3                      3
10. Secondary canal head regulators             11                     11                      5
11  Tertiary direct offtakes                    11                     11
12. Tertiary canal pipe aqueducts               15                     10                      5
13. Local cross-drainage syphons                47                     16                      8
14. Longitudinal drainage channels              30 km                  30 km                 70 km
15. Escape regulators/spillways                  3                      3                      3
16. Dewatering/sediment disposal sluices    -                           -                    17
17. Bridges                                     13                      6                      2
l8. Embankments (compacted)                     72 km                  26 km                  4 km
19. Slopes in cutting                           34 km                  15 km
20. Flow metering sections                       -                      -                      3
21. Storm drainage chutes/inlets                20                     20                    30
22. CMC operating roads                         53 km                  53 km                 44 km
C.  Distribution System  (332 km)
1. Branch canals                               17 km                   8 km
2. Secondary canals                           210 km                160 km                  12 km
3. Tertiary canals                            105 km                105 km                  80 km
4. Field canals (6,400 ha Stage I               -                     -                     80 km
development)
5. Local channels (6,400 ha) (to be             -                      -                   400 km
built by beneficiaries)
6. Farm channels (6,400 ha) (to be              -                     -                    800 km
built by beneficiaries)
7. Head regulators (turnouts):
(a) Branches to secondaries                 6                      6
(b) Secondaries to tertiaries              30                     30                    35
(c) Tertiaries to field canals              -                      -                 1,100
(66,000 ha)
(d) Field channel division boxes            -                      -                   640
(6,400 ha)
8. Flow measuring sections/flumes               -                     -                    110
9. Drop structures                            183                   120                     40
10. Drop structures with bridges                74                    50                      -
11. Bridges                                     32                    16                      -
12. Aqueducts                                   34                    25                      2
13. Canal syphons                                4                      4                     -
14. Local cross-drainage syphons               117                    40                     20
15. Escape spillways/regulators                 14                    14                     14
16. Longitudinal drainage ditches              130 km                130 km                 200 km
17. Branch operating road (No. 1)                -                     -                     22 km
18. Secondary operating road (No. 7)             -                     -                     15 km
19. Operating road improvements                150 km                150 km                   -
20. Control cross-regulators
D.  Drainage System
1. Main drains                                495 km                250 km                   -
2. Branch, secondary & tertiary drains          -                     -                    330 km
3. Field drains (6,400 ha Stage I               -                     -                    530 km
development)
4. River training works                         -                     -                      5 km
5. Local flood protection works                 -                     -                     20 km
Mav 1978



-45-
NEPAL                                         TABLE 3. 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
List of Equipment, Vehicles and Materials
I. Engineering Equipment
Unit Price          Total
Item                                                              Quantity   Cif, Calcutta, US$   Cost, US$
A.  River Training Worka Maintenance Equipment
1.  Dump trucks, St                                                                     2               30,000           60,000
2.  Front-end loaders, wheeled                                                          2               29,000           58,000
118,000
B. Sediment Clearance Equipment
1.  Dredgers, 0.2 m /sec.                                                               2               70,000          140,000
2.  Power transmission equipment                                                        1 lot           20,000           20,000
3.  Excavators, with dragline and backhoe equipment, 0.3m3                              3               70,000          210,000
4.  Tractor-drawn scrapers, Sm3                                                         3               15,000           45,000
5.  Bulldozers, 180 H.P.                                                                3               57,000          171,000
6.  Tractor-drawn low loader trailer, 25t capacity                                      1               12,000           12,000
7.  Break-down truck, 25t                                                               1              25,000            25,000
8.  Fuel tanker, including pump, 4m3                                                    2               15,100           30,200
9.  Servicing truck 2.5t                                                                1               35,000           35,000
10.  On-site fuel tanks 2,0001 portable, with mounts                                     4                2,000            8,000
696,200
C. Canal Operation, Maintenance and Repair Equipment
1.  Trucks, 6t                                                                          2              15,000            30,000
2.  Motor graders, 150 H.P.                                                             2              45,000            90,000
3.  Backhoes, 0.6m3                                                                     2              47,000            94,000
4.  Belt conveyors, with engine, lOm                                                    2               4,500             9,000
5.  Mobile cranes, 15t                                                                  2              53,000           106,000
6.  Construction  temporary (Bailey) bridge and accessories, 45m span                   1             150,000           150,000
7.  Hydraulic jacks, 20t                                                                4                7,500           30,000
8.  Four-wheel drive truck,  12t                                                        1              40,000            40,000
9.  Disc harrows, ganged                                                                4                  250            1,000
10.  Pneumatic-tired rollers, 15t                                                        2              20,000            40,000
11.  Slope compactors, 0.6t                                                              2               6,700            13,400
12.  Tampers, diesel, 80 kg, hand operated                                              10               1,400            14,000
13.  Water tanker, including pump, 6m3                                                   2              14,500            29,000
14.  Rotary hoes, 2m maximum width, tractor driven                                       4               3,000            12,000
15.  Tractor, 75 H.P.                                                                    5              40,000           200,000
16.  Vibratory roller, 0.9t                                                              4               3,700            14,800
17.  Vibratory roller, 2t                                                                4               9,000            36,000
18,  Tractor-drawn trailers, flat bed, 2 1/2 ton                                         2              10,000            20,000
19.  Jack hammers, 0.75m3/min.                                                          12                  400            4,800
20.  Compressors, 12m3/m                                                                 4              12,000            48,000
21.  Pile driving frame and diesel  hammer                                               1 set          20,000            20,000
22.  Well-point equipment                                                                4 sets          5,000            20,000
23.  Pumps, with engine, lOc/m                                                          20               2,600            52,000
24.  Concrete cutting disc, power driven                                                 1               6,000             6,000
25.  Rebar flame cutting equipment                                                       4 sets          3,000            12,000
26.  Portable concrete mixers, 0.3m3, and transfer equipment                             6               8,000            48,000
27.  Concrete batching plants, portable                                                  2               7,000            14,000
28.  Concrete vibrators, 5cm                                                            10                 600             6,000
29.  Concrete vibrators, 10cm                                                           10               1,500            15,000
30.  Gunite concreting equipment                                                         2 sets          5,000           10,000
31.  Grouting equipment, including boring equipment                                      2 set           8,000            16,000
32.  Cementation equipment                                                               1 set          20,000            20,000
33.  Four-wheel drive pick-up trucks, 2t                                                 6              10,000           60,000
34.  Site offices, portable, heat insultated                                             8               5,000           40,000
35.  Four-wheel drive vehicles                                                          15               6,000           90,000
36.  Motorized bicycles, lOOc.c.                                                        30                 600           18,000
37.  Bicycles                                                                          250                 100           25,000
1,458,000
D. Equipment for Project Headquarters Workshop
1.  Workshop equipment                                                                  1 lot         150,000          150,000
2.  Underground fuel storage tank with pumping equipment, 50,000 1                      1              20,000           20,000
3.  Diesel generator lighting sets, 50 KVA                                              4               7,000           28,000
4.  Fork lift truck, lt                                                                 1              20,000           20,000
5.  Spray guns                                                                          2                 500            1,000
6.  Storage racks                                                                   1,500 kg                1            1,500
Sub-total                                                  220,500
2,492,700
Spare parts for A to D for 5-year, 1st Stage Project implementation
period, allow 30%                                                                   LOT             716,730          746.730
Total Cost, cif, Calcutta                                                                                            3,239,430
Carriage, insurance and freight Calcutta to Biratnagar, allow 5%                                                       180,570
TOTAL, Engineering Equipment                            3,420,000



-46-
TABLE 3.2
NEPAL                                            Page 2
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
List ef Equipment, Vehicles and Materials
II. Equipment and Vehicles for Agricultural Operation                                                      Unit Price         Total
Quantity    Cif, Calcutta, us$  Cost, US$
1. Four-wheel drive pick up                                                                1                10,000           10,000
2. Four-wheel drive vehicles                                                                2                6,000           12,000
3- Motorized bicycles, 100 c.c                                                             5                   600            3,000
4. Bicycles                                                                                26                  100            2,600
5. Tractor(35 IIP)                                                                          1               15,000           15,Q00
6. Agricultural Equipment (drill, threshers, planters, land plane)                          1 lot           10,000           10,000
7. Plant protection equipment                                                              1. lot            8,000            8,000
8. Audo-visual aids                                                                        1 lot            10,000           10,000
9. Generator                                                                               1                 2,400            2,400
Sub-total                                                  71,000
Spare parts (25%)                                                                                                         18,000
Sub-total, cif Calcutta                                    91.000
Carriage, insurance and freight, Calcutta to Biratnagar (5%)                                                               4,550
TOTAL, Agricultural Equipment                              95,550
III. Equipment for Survey, Laboratory, Office and Communication.
1. Drafting equipment                                                                       1 lot           14,900           14,900
2. Duplicating equipment                                                                    I lot           24,000           24,000
3. Design equipment                                                                        1 lot             1,700            1,700
4. Visual aids                                                                             1 lot             6,400            6,400
5. (:eneral office equipment                                                                1 lot           25,200           25,200
6. Survey equipment                                                                         1 lot           52,200           52,200
7. Laboratory equipment                                                                    1 lot             2,800            2,800
8. Concrete testing equipment                                                              1 lot             5,300            5,300
9. Meteorological equipment                                                                 I lot           11,500           11,500
10. Eydrological survey equipment                                                            1 lot           14,200           14,200
11. Construction communications equipment                                                    1 lot           20,000           20,000
Sub-total                                                 178,200
Spare parts (20%)                                                                                                         35,600
Sub-total, cif Calcutta                                   213,800
Carriage, insurance and freight  to Biratnagar (5%)                                                                      10,650
TOTAL, Miscellaneous Equipment                           224,450
IV. Construction Materials (for force account works)
1. Fuel, oil and lubricants                                                                1 lot
2. Cement, lime and admixtures                                                             llot                       )
3. Concrete aggregates and sand (local supplies)                                           Ilot
4. Structural steel sections, pipe and tubing                                              1lot
5. Steel sheet piling                                                                      llot
6. Fencing materials                                                                       Ilot                       )
7. Corrugated iron sheeting and fixings                                                    Ilot
8. Concrete reinforcing bars                                                               Ilot
9. Steel sheeting for control gates                                                        1 lot                      )    100,000
10. Rubber water stopping and construction jointing                                          1lot
11. Bricks                                                                                   Ilot                      )
12. Paint                                                                                    Ilot
13. Tentage                                                                                  Ilot                      >
14. Construction helmets                                                                     Ilot
15. Plastic sheet                                                                            1lot                      )
TOTAL, Materials                                          100,000
TOTAL, Equipment,Vehicles and Materials                                                                       3,840,000
May 1978



-47-
TABLE 3.3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I
Estimated Irrigation Requirements
(in millimeters)
Crop                Intensity  Jan  Feb    Mar    Apr   May    Jun   Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
PADDY (Local)                      65%
Land Preparation and Nursery                                        (120)
Transplanting and Ponding                                                  (125)
Consumptive Use                                                      170    136   132  123  147  100   70
Percolation                                - - - - - - - - - - - _ 91 - - - 95 _ _75 _ 64_ _83 _ 50_ _30 - - - - - -
Crop Water Requirement                                               261    231   207  187  230  150  100
Rainfall (average)                                                    73    294   359  288  211   83   -
Effective Rainfall                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - 51_   176 _ 180 _144_ 148   50 -_-  - - - - - _
Net Irrigation Requirement                                           210     55    27   43   82  100  100          617
PADDY (HYV)                        15%
Net Irrigation Requirement                                     188   210     55    35   70                         558
JUTE                              30%
Net Irrigation Requirement                                     225   137                                            362
SUGARCANE                          4%
Net Irrigation Requirement                 130  160  (170)    200   210                            90   90  100  1,150
WHEAT                              10%
Net Irrigation Requirement                 145  150  ( 70)      50                                125  160  145    845
PULSES                              3%
Net Irrigation Requirement                 125                                                               75    200
OILSEEDS                            3%
Net Irrigation Requirement                 150                                                               50    200
VEGETABLES                         2%
Net Irrigation Requirement                 130  160    -       170   170                           85  130  105    950
Crop Irrigation Demand
(Cubic meters per hectare of
cultivable command area per month)
Paddy (Local)                      65%                                85    652   663  295  723  307   66        2,791
Paddy (HYV)                       15%                            7   388    161    35   16                         607
Jute                               30%                        338   411                                             749
Sugarcane                           4%      46   39    -        70    84                           18   18   42    317
Vegetables                          2%      23   33    -        48    46                           17   31   21    219
Wheat                              10%     144  147                                                63   79  145    578
Pulses                              3%      38                                                               11      49
Oilseeds                            3%     _45    -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  23_  _   _68
(Canal
TOTAL                                      296  219  Closed)  463  1,014   813   698  311  723  405  194  242  5,378
May 1978



-48-
Table 3.4
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Estimates of Irrigation Efficiencies-/
p 2/      -12/        22/         2/         2/
-      -l~"        -2        --3
Main Canal                           75         85         75         75        85
Secondary and Tertiary               70         70         85        70         85
3/
Field Canals to Farm3-               55         55         55        75         75
Overall Irrigation Efficiency
P                             29
W1                                      33
W2                                                 35
w3                                                            39
w                                                                        54
Resulting Net Irrigated            35,000    40,000    42,000    47,000    66,000
Area (ha)
Increase in Net Irrigated            0         5,000     7,000    12,000    31,000
Area from Present (ha)
Note    1/  These estimates are based on records of losses wherever available,
and field observations of area actually irrigated. They represent
averages of irrigation efficiencies estimates in canal headreaches
and tailreaches.
P: Present, Wjl: future with CMC restoration only; W?: future with
secondary and tertiary restoration only; W3: future with improvements
beyond tertiary outlet; W: future with improvement throughout the
system.
3/ Including field efficiencies estimated at 90% for paddy, and 75%
for other crops.
May, 1978



-49-
TABLE 4.1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Project Cost
(NRsl2.OO - US$1.00)
Project Item                             Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    % of             % Foreign
----- NRs Million ----    ---- US$ Million ----    Total    Exchange
1. Civil Works and Buildings:"l
(a) Kosi river control and CMC flood protection (30%)           7.20   10.56    17.76        0.60   0.88        1.48
(b) CMC sediment control structures (15%)                       5.76    8.16    13.92        0.48   0.68        1.16
Sub-total                                                  12.96   18.72    31.68        1.08   1.56       2.64        7         59
(c) CMC restoration and additional structures (15%)            35.04   50.52    85.56         2.92   4.21       7.13
(d) Secondary and tertiary canal restoration (20%)             23.52   15.12    38.64         1.96   1.26       3.22
Sub-total                                                  58.56   65.64   124.20        4.88   5.47    10.35         28         53
(e) Drainage improvement and flood protection (20%)            17.52   11.76    29.28         1.46   0.98       2.44
(f) Field canals and drains (Farm Group Dev't) (15%)           12.36    5.16    17.52         1.03   0.43      1.46
(g) On-farm development (15%)                                   3.72      -        3.72      0.31    -         0.31
Sub-total                                                  33.60   16.92    50.52        2.80   1.41       4.21       11          33
(h) Pilot groundwater development (30%)                         0.24    1.32       1.56       0.02   0.11      0.13
(i) Pilot development of improved irrigation and                1.56    8.16       9.72      0.13   0.68       0.81
drainage, and canal micro-hydels (20%)
Sub-total                                                   1.80    9.48    11.28        0.15   0.79       0.94        3         84
(j) Buildings for project engineering operations (10%)    6.00    1.44             7.44      0.50   0.12       0.62
(k) Buildings for project agricultural operations               2.16       .48     2.64      0.18   0.04        0.22
and supporting services (10%)
Sub-total                                                  .8.16    1.92    10.08        0.68   0.16       0.84        2         19
Sub-total, civil works and buildings                      115.08  112.68   227.76        9.59   9.39    18.98         51         49
2. Equipment:
(a) Engineering construction, operation and                      -      40.80    40.80        -      3.40      3.40
maintenance equipment and spare parts
(b) Agricultural operation equipment and spare parts             -       1.20      1.20       -      0.10      0.10
(c) Survey, laboratory, office and communications                -       2.88      2.88       -      0.24      0.24
equipment and spare parts
Sub-total, equipment                                         -      44.88    44.88        -      3.74      3.74       10        100
3. Technical Services:
(a) Project operations consultants                              1.68    9.24    10.92        0.14   0.77       0.91
(b) Air photography and mapping2/                               0.60    3.00       3.60      0.05   0.25       0.30
(c) Feasibility studies                                         0.96    0.96       1.92      0.08   0.08       0.16
Sub-total, technical services                               3.24   13.20    16.44        0.27   1.10       1.37        4         80
4.  Project Establishment:3/
(a) Engineering                                                15.00   11.52    26.52        1.25   0.96       2.21
(b) Agriculture                                                 5.04    0.24       5.28      0.42   0.02       0.44
(c) Administration                                              0.96    0.24       1.20      0.08   0.02       0.10
Sub-total, establishment                                   21.00   12.00    33.00        1.75   1.00       2.75        7         36
5. Contingencies:
(a) Physical contingencies                                     21.36   19.08    40.44        1.78   1.59       3.37
(b) Price contingencies                                        37.32   44.16    81.48    13.39   3.68          6.79
Project Cost                                            198.00  246.00   444.00    26.78  20.50    37.00           99         55
6.  Land Acquisition                                            3.60      -        3.60      0.30    -         0.30
7.  Taxes and Duties                                            2.40      -        2.40      0.20    -         0.20
8.    TOTAL PROJECT COST                                      204.00  246.00   450.00    17.00  20.50    37.50           100         55
1/ Physical contingency percentages provided for works are shown in parentheses, and accumulated in item 5(a).
2/ $100,000 for the project, and $200,000 for preparatory mapping for future project(s).
3/ Including operation and maintenance during project construction period FY79 through FY83.
May 1978



-50-
TABLE 4.2
NEPAL
APPPAISAL (w
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance
on Completion of Project
Cost per year
NRs '000          US$ '000
1. Engineering Operations and
Water Management Divisions:
(a) Salaries and allowances             2,010                168
(b) Force account works                 2,000                167
(c) Equipment operation,
maintenance and spares            2,870                239
(d) Building maintenance,
services                            228                 20
7,120               594
2. Agricultural Extension and
Research Divisions:
(a) Salaries and allowances             1,080                 93
(b) Vehicle operation and
maintenance                         130                 10
(c) Labor                                  72                  6
(d) Building maintenance,
services                            108                  9
(e) Miscellaneous                          60                  5
1,440               123
3. Administration and Finance
Divisions:
(a) Salaries and allowances               228                 20
(b) Office supplies and
services                             36                  3
264                23
TOTAL                         8,544               740
Operation and maintenance cost per hectare:
Irrigated area on completion = 66,000 ha.
Operation and maintenance cost per irrigated ha per year = NRs 135 or
US$11.25. Cropped area under irrigation per year = 89,000 ha.
Operation and maintenance cost per cropped ha per year = NRs 100 or US$8.33
May 1978



-51-
TABLE 4.3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Estimated Annual Expenditure
Total            Estimated Annual Expenditure, US$M equiv.
Estimated    Year (1)  Year (2)  Year (3)  Year (4)  Year (5)
Project Item                                Cost, US$M      1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
1. Civil Works and Buildings:l/
(a) Kosi river control and CMC flood protection                           1.5             -          -         0.9         0.6         -
(b) CMC sediment control structures                                       1.2           0.1         0.5        0.6          -
(c) CMC restoration and additional structures                             7.1            1.9        2.1        1.6         1.5         -
(d) Secondary and tertiary canal restoration                              3.2            -          0.7        0.7         1.5        0.3
(e) Drainage system improvement and flood protection                      2.4           0.5         1.0        0.3          -         0.6
(f) Field canal and drain (Block) development                             1.5           0.1         0.3        0.4        0.7          -
(g) On-fam  development                                                   0.3            -           -         0.1        0.1         0.1
(h) Pilot groundwater development                                         0.1            -                     0.1          -          -
(i) Pilot development of improved irrigation and drainage                 0.8             -          -         0.2         0.6
(j) Bldgs. for project engineering operations                             0.7           0.1         0.3        0.3          -
(k) Bldgs. for project agricultural supporting services                   0.2            -           -         0.1         0.1         -
19.0           2.7         4.9        5.3        5.1         1.0
2. Technical Services:-/
(a) Project operations consultants                                        0.9           0.3         0.2        0.1        0.2         0.1
(c) Air photography and mapping                                           0.3            -          0.2        0.1         -           -
(d) Feasibility studies                                                   0.2                        -         0.1        0.1
1.4           0.3        0.4         0.3        0.3        0.1
3.  Project Establishment:
(a) Engineering and Administration                                        2.3           0.2         0.4        0.5        0.6         0.6
(b) Agriculture                                                           0.4            -          0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1
2.7           0.2         0.5        0.6        0.7         0.7
Sub-total, Items 1, 2 and 3                                         23.1            3.2         5.8        6.2        6.1         1.8
4.  Contingencies, (i):
(a) Physical contingencies- /2/                                           3.4           0.5         0.7        0.7        0.8         0.7
(i) Sub-total (A), works and services, Items 1 through 4                 26.5           3.7         6.5        6.9        6.9         2.5
5. Equipment:-/
(a) Engineering construction O&M equip. & spare parts                     3.4           0.6         2.2        0.6          -          -
(b) Agricultural operation equipment and spare parts                      0.1           0.1          -          -
(c) Survey, lab, office & communic. equip. & spare parts                  0.2           0.1         0.1         -
Sub-total (B), equipment                                             3.7            0.8         2.3        0.6         -           -
Sub-total (C), project cost excluding price contingencies    30.2                   4.5         8.8        7.5        6.9         2.5
6. Contingencies, (i), (ii), and (iii):
(b) Price contingencies-/ '3
Ci) Escalation factors!/, works and services                                            (0.08)     (0.161)   (0.242)   (0.329)   (0.422)
Escalation on sub-total (A), works and services!1                     6.3           0.3         1.0        1.7         2.3        1.0
(ii) Escalation factors31, equipment                                                     (0.07)     (0.139)   (0.208)   (0.280)   (0.357)
Escalation, on sub-total (B) equipment31                              0.5           0.1         0.3        0.1
(iii) Sub-total (D), price contingencies, (i) and (ii)                      6.8            0.4        1.3         1.8        2.3        1.0
Project Cost, sub-totals (C) and (D)                                 37.0           4.9        10.1        9.3         9.2        3.5
7.  Land Acquisition, Customs duties and taxes                            0.5            0.2        0.1         0.1        0.1         -
8.  Total Project Cost                                                   37.5            5.1       10.2         9.4        9.3        3.5
1/ Items with an escalation factor of 8% in 1978/79, 7 1/2% in 1979/80, then 7%.
2/ Physical contingencies vary from 10% to 30% depending upon state of preparation, with weighted average of 18%,
see Table 4.1
3/ Items with an escalation factor of 7% in 1978/79, 6.5% in 1979/80, then 6%.
May 1978



-52-
NE PAL                                  TABLE 4.4
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT
STAGE I PROJECT
Disbursement and Credit Allocation
A. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year            Disbursements
and Semester         US$ Million Equivalent
Semester    Cumulative
FY79
Ist                       
2nd                    0.5            0.5
FY80
Ist                    1.5            2.0
2nd                    1.6            3.6
FY81
Ist                    4.0            7.6
2nd                    4.4          12.0
FY82
Ist                    3.8           15.8
2nd                    3.7           19.5
FY83
Ist                    3.7          23.2
2nd                    3.8          27.0
FY84
Ist                    1.5          28.5
2nd                    1.5          30.0
B.  Proposed Credit Allocation
% of Expenditures
Category               Amount of Credit          Financed
--US$ million --
(1)  Civil Works and Buildings             23,0                  90
(2)  Equipment, Vehicles,
Materials and Spare Parts             4,0
(a) imported directly                                      100
(b) ex-factory from local
manufacturer                                           100
(c) imported but locally
procured                                                75
(3)  Technical Services                     1.5                 100
(4)  TiJnallocated                          1.5                  -
30.0
May 1978



-53-
TABLE 6.1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production (At Full Development)
-----------------------P-------Present (P) --------------------------------
%             Area ('000 ha)               Yields (tons/ha)           Production
Area       Rainfed       Irrigated        Rainfed       Irrigated       '000 tons
WET SEASON
Local Paddy                      70         20.8           25.5              1.1           1.5             61.1
HYV Paddy                         2          0.3            1.0              1.6           2.0              2.5
Jute                             30          9.3           10.5             1.0            1.1             20.9
Vegetables                        2          1.2             -               8.0            -               9.6
DRY SEASON
Wheat                             6          1.6            2.5              .8            1.1              4.0
Pulses                            2          0.6            0.7             0.4            0.5              0.6
Oilseeds                          2          0.6            0.7             0.4            0.5              0.6
Vegetables                        2          1.2             -               8.0            -               9.6
PERENNIAL
Sugarcane                         2          0.6            0.4            15.0           17.0             15.8
Total Cropped Area ('000 ha)                          77.5
Net Cultivated Area ('000 ha)                         66.0
Total Cropping Intensity (%)                         117.0
Wet Season Intensity (%)                             106.0
Dry Season Intensity (X)                             14.0
-----------------------------Future Without (FWO) ---------------------------
%             Area ('000 ha)                Yields (tons/ha)          Production
Area       Rainf ed      Irrigated        Rainfed       Irrigated       '000 tons
WET SEASON
Local Paddy                      65         21.7           21.3             1.3            1.8            66.5
lYV Paddy                         7          0.6            4.0             2.0            2.4            10.8
Jute                             30          9.3           10.5             1.1            1.5            26.0
Vegetables                        2          1.2             -              8.7             -             10.4
DRY SEASON
Wheat                             6          1.6            2.5             1.0            1.5             5.4
Pulses                            2          0.6            0.7             0.5            0.6             0.7
Oilseeds                          2          0.6            0.7             0.4            0.6             0.7
Vegetables                        2          1.2             -              8.7             -             10.4
PERENNIAL
Sugarcane                         2          0.6            0.4            16.0           20.0            17.6
Total Cropped Area ('000 ha)                          77.5
Net Cultivated Area ('000 ha)                        66.0
Total Cropping Intensity (%)                        118.0
Wet Season Intensity                                106.0
Dry Season Intensity                                 14.0
----------------------------Future With (FW)   ----------
X .           Area ('000 ha)               Yields (tons/ha)           Production
Area     Irrigated 1   Irrigated 2      Irrigated 1   Irrigated 2      '000 tons
WET SEASON
Local Paddy                      65         41.7            1.6             2.1            2.3            91.2
NYV Paddy                        15          5.0            4.9             2.7           3.0             28.2
Jute                             30         17.9            2.0             1.5           2.0             30.9
Vegetables                        2          1.3             .2            10.0          15.0             16.0
DRY SEASON
Wheat                            10          4.1            1.6             1.8           2.5             12.5
Pulses                            3          1.8             .4             0.6           0.8              1.4
Oilseeds                          3          1.8             .4             0.6           0.8              1.4
Vegetables                        2          1.3             .2            10.0          15.0             16.0
PERENNIAL
Sugarcane                         4          2.5             .1            22.0          28.0             57.8
Total Cropped Area ('000 ha)                         89.4
Net Cultivated Area ('000 ha)                        66.0
Total Cropping Intensity (X)                        135.0
Wet Season Intensity (%)                            116.0
Dry Season Intensity (%)                             22.0
1/ Irrigation with distribution extending down the tertiary outlet.
2/ Irrigation with distribution extending down to farm level.
May 1978



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OP
SINSAI DIAtE  RRICAAIN  AD E1 DEv04        wEVIIP0NO  STAGE I PROJECT
------------Loal Paddy--------------                                             -----                             Psad -------------                            --      ----------JUTE- ------------
RF           P1          RE           PT           Pl            El            RE           Pi           RE           PSI          Pi           PII            RF           P0           RF           Pi           Pi           PI
YIELD  (tons/ha)                     --- 1.1-R-- .5              1 -.31.8 _- 2.39         --2.3 1.6 --2.0 ---2.0 ---2 ,    --2.7--------3.0                                       1--  .0     11          11           .5          .52.0--
M/D  hI/D  Il/f DAJl  Il/D  A/l  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/I  Il/fl  A/I                 RID  A/fl  8/D  A/I  MID   A/I  MID  A/f  MlIAII/                       /       l/     /lI/lAII/D  A/D  I/flD                 /f M/flAfD        l/lAf
Annoa Labor and
L-nd PrePar..i.n                      48    8(1   48    80    40    81    40    RI   40    80    40    80             40    RI    AD    RI    AD    RI    42    84    42    Rh    Al    84            30    33    30    55    30    55    30    55    3D    55    30    55
Norsernad Plani.g                     35    A4     35      4    35      4A   35      4A   35      4A   35     4A      335     4    35      4A   335     A    35      4A   35     4A    335    4        6      4A    6h     5     6      5     6      5     6      5    12     5
Crop IlaRRenLen                       80           I11          'I           12           13           13             23           23           23           21           21           21AS5                       45           AS           47           47           AR
Ilsvenlefaed hrlahinR             21    10    24    15    23    12    28   A         30    21  32 2          2     1 1  21      3    13    23    13    21    1       25    12    32    1R         69     1     722    1    7a      1 89         2    8       12        
sufl-sosal)nsd/hnj        106    94  1IT0    99   18996           M12  i12   118   104  12o  116          119    95   021    92   121    97  122   112   123   113   iTo   16             150    33   133    671  133    61   122    61   172    61   212    65
(Ra/ h.)              636   316   660  396   654   384   690  400   208   41'  7221   A2A              214  380   226   388   226   388   7 32  AIR   238  412   780   A2A            900  232   918  2AA   918  244 1032   244 1032   204  1272   260
F-Lillioer  6 P-tiLide-
N              lKg/IWT                                17           lo          20           25           45              28           35           35          55           70          110              /711                      II           30           30           75
(Rs/ha                                 90           23         116          133          239             106          18h         186          292          392          583              39           58          SR          159          159          398
P             (KR/Iha I                               I             5           15           ER          302             00           25           25          40           50           77               3            4            4           20           2D           50
(fi/ha)                                405          23           6R           81           90             45          113          113          180          225         342              14           18           18           90           90          225
K             /E0/Iha)I                               -            -             7           10          OR              -            15           05          22           28           44               -            -            -           12           12           30
(Ks/ho)                                                           18          26           42             -            39           30           32           23          114                                                    31           31           28
Maos(tart 1oods)                                                                                                     00           10          00           OR           00           10              20           20          20           20           28           28
RI/h.                                                                                                       20           20           50           5D           50          50             10o          lIE     0     0 1        iD            188          180
Plant Pro.LtirLon(Ia/ha)-                               20           25            30          A0           60             40           50           50          000          125         200              -            -            -            SR           SD          100
Othee Inpot
fiend:        KR/ha                      60           60           60           60           60          60              60           68           60          22           22           55               2.5          2.5          2.5          8            8            8
Do/ ha                   120          120           120         120          120          120             151         050          150          138          138          138              4     45           45    45                  48           48    A
'8i.LaRl1...s                            9 1         108          101         I115          121         136             119          136          136         157          1722         211             106          III          III          140          148          198
-----r-----                  nahgt~le--------------                          ------------ -    -      -      Wheats----      ------                             ---   -          -      -       Polses----- -----m
RE           Pi           RE          Pl           Pi           PC              RE           Pi          RE           Li           Pi           P1               RE           Pi           RE           Pi           Pi           Li
YIELD (none/ha)                           --8.0            -           8.2           -          10--M12.0--               M-8-.8        1.1    -      .0        8.          1.8          2.5 -    -0.4 -  -0.2                   R.2         1.6--0.6             1---.8 ---
Il/fl  A/A  Il/A  A/fl  M/D  A/D  0/0   A/fl  M/D  A/fl  8/fl  A/fl    Il/fl  A/I  Il/fl  A/A  Il/fl  A/I   /fl  A/D  Ml/D  A/I   0/I   A/D                      Il/fl  A/fl  M/I  A/fl  M/D  A/fl  M/fl  A/fl  Il/fl  A/D  0/fl  A/I
AseRal-  LAhot and
Animal Pose
L-ed Pep-aralo                            25    30                  23    30                  25    30    23   30         30    55    30    55    30    55       30    55    32    52    35    57                                                                             5
Nsrs-U    -d P.LisAE.2                                 2272    227                            22           22    2        10    12    10    12    10    12    10    12    10         12    10    12          1            1            1            1            1            1 I
Crop M .....n.et                          SI    ID                  50    10                  50    00    35   10         100           I0          10           12           13           00                                                                    3           6    -
Sa-vetieoaed Th-ehls                      40      4           _     43      4A   5_            4      6    627   8        30    5_2    22      7    31      53   38      9    41    11    46    13          28          253           25   _       28    _      28           31
Sah-tasLI1nd./hal1                    137    51                 140    51                 15.   5 1695  81               0    22    82    24    81    22    00    (6    06    8100 811          2        21      -    26      -    26           32      -     2      -    43    00
fsd/haj
(Es/ho)                  822   2D4                 840   204                 006   212 OD1A 220          480   288   492   296   486  288   540   304   526   320   660   328              126          1 56     - 136        -   192      - 102        -  258    40
F-rtlliae- A frstialdes
N                /10/ha)                     50                        55                        70        000               20           35           30           48           66          05                  -----                                                          10
(Ro/ha)                   265                       282                       371         530              106          186          120         234          320          421                                                                                 53
P                (KS/ ha)                    05                        20                        25         30               100          14           12           20           26           35-----                                                                           10
(Os /ha)                    68                        00                      113         133               45           63           54           00         117          058                                                                                 45
K                /K/ha)                      30                        42                       45          00                8           02           10           18           23           30-----
(Ks/ha)              2~          ~~8 100                               112         234               21           31           26           47           60          /8
, s/h                                                                                                        A            50           50           50           25           23
Pl-nt P-os-sLlosR5/hA)                        100                       110             150       123        300                -             -50                                  23          000                  -                        -L                        10         50
S.Isdr Kns        go/ha                    1181                      1110                      1100        1200               90           90           90           00          100          000                 50           50           SR          50           50          50
Rs/ha                    3388                      3300                      3300        3601              315          II  315  3          15   315           30           350                123          025          025         125          125         125
'msri-1an.o..                               149                       306                       416         403             104          11 I         III          132          130          122                  20           22           22          26           26         46
lEstieatRd  at 8. sf pradostisf   rose
Nats. RE - Rainf.d
FT F.Poly Irrigsted
May 1028



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements                               Sugar Cane
-_____________________ Oil Seeds                   _          - - -__                            Sugar Cane ------------------------
--- p-P    - -       -----FWO--------   ------ FW---------             ------P----------   -------FWO-------   -------FW-------
RF        PI         RF          Pi        Pi         FI                RP         PI         RF         PI         PI         Fl
YIELD (tons/ha)                    --0.4---  --0.5---  --0.4---  --0.6---  --0.6---  --0.8---              --15.0--  --17.0--  --16.0--  --20.0--  --22.0--  --28.0--
MID  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D              M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D
Annual Labor and hired labor
& Animal Power (days/ha.)
Land Preparation                   20   32   20   36   20   32   20  36   20   36   22   40                           44   36               46   38   46   38   49   40
Nursery and Planting                4    3    4    4    4    3    4   4    4    4    4    4                           22    2               24    4   24    4   25    4
Crop Management                    10         15         10         16        16        27                            46                    46         46          46
Harvesting and Threshing           20    4   25    5   20    4   30   7   30    7   32    7                           66   40                72   43   80   46  101   55
Sub-total Imd/hal               54   39   64   45   54   39   70  47   70   47   85   51                 160  70  178   78   167  75  188   85  196   88  221   99
lad/hal
(Rs/ha)             324  156  384  180  324  156  420 188  420  188  510  204                 960 280 1068  312  1002 300 1128  340 1176  352 1326  396
Fertilizers & Pesticides
N             (Kg/ha)                 -                              10         10         40                 45         65          55        80          90        125
(Rs/ha)                -         _          -         53         53        212                 239       345         292       424         477         663
P             (Kg/ha)                                                 -          -         30                  11        16          14        20          23         32
(Rs/ha)                -         -          -          -          -        135                  50        72          63        90          104        144
K             (Kg/ha)                 -         -          -          -          -         20                  18        26          22        32          36         51
(Kg/ha)                -         _          -          _          _         52                  47        68          57        83           94        133
Manure(cost loads)
Rs/ha
Plant Protection(Rs/ha)                 -         -          -          -          -         50                 100       150         125       170         200        300
Other Inputs
Seed:       Kg/ha                    7.5        7.5        7.5        7.5       7.5        8.0              4000      4000         4000      4000        4500       4500
Rs/ha                   30         30         30         30        30         32               1040       1040        1040      1040        1170       1170
*Miscellaneous                        41         48         41         55        55         96                 217       244         230       262         286        331
* Estimated at 8Z of production cost.
Note:  RF = Rainfed
PI = Partially Irrigated
FI = Fully Irrigated
Nyt9
May 1978 



TABLE 8.1
-56-
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE BEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
I. Investment Package
Year                          Investment Cost             O&M           Net Incremental Benefits
in NRs million-------------------------
1                                 41.6                  1.6                          0
2                                  74.4                  3.5                         0
3                                 64.7                  5.4                        0.9
4                                  53.5                  6.1                       4.7
5                                 37.9                   6.3                      14.1
6                                     0                 7.2                       32.8
7                                     0                 7.2                       51.5
8                                     0                 7.2                       75.0
9                                     0                  7.2                     89.0
10-50                                  0                 7.2                       93.7
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) = 17%
II. Project Components
A.  CMC SEDIMENT CONTROL           B.  CMC RESTORATION AND OPERATIONAL CONTROL
Benefits from                       Benefits from     Net Benefits
Ye /I   Investment   Reduction of           Investment   Reduction of    from Increased
Year-           Cost       Canal Closure            Cost       Canal Closure   Irrigated Area
-----in NRs million -------        -------------in NRs million-------------
1             11.3              0                 21.7              0                  0
2             12.1            3.5                 24.7            1.8                  0
3                0            7.0                 21.9            3.9               0.1
4                0            7.0                 21.0            5.4               0.5
5                0            7.0                    0            7.0                1.5
6                n            7.0                    0            7.0                3.5
7                0            7.0                    0            7.0                5.5
o                0            7.0                    0            7.0                8.0
9                0            7.0                    0            7.0                9.5
10-50              o           7.0                    0            7.0               10.0
ERR = 28%                                    ERR = 16%
C. SECONDARY AND TERTIARY
CANAL RESTORATION             D. FIELD CANAL AND FARM GROUP DEVELOPNENT
Net Benefits                                 Net Benefits
Investment   from Increased                  Investment   from Increased
Year            Cost       Irrigated Area                     Cost      Yield and Area
-----in NRs million -------                  ------in NRs million-------
1               9.2              0                           3.5               0
2               9.2              0                          5.8                0
3              17.4            0.1                          9.3              0.1
4               3.3            0.7                          1.2              0.5
5                 0            2.1                             0             1.7
6                 0            4.9                             0             3.8
7                 0            7.7                             0             6.1
8                 0           11.2                             0             8.8
9                 0           13.3                             0           10.4
10-50              0           14.0                             0            11.0
ERR = 18%                                    ERR = 25%
E.  KOSI RIVER CONTROL               F.  DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT
Net Benefits                                 Net Benefits
1/      Investment   from Irrigation                  Investment   from Increased
Year-           Cost        in Dry Season                     Cost            Yield
----- in NRs million -------                 ----- in NRs million ------
1              13.7              0                         30                   0
2-50               0              2                            0               2.5-3.0
G. EXTENSION SERVICES
Annual Cost per ha:        NRs 20
Annual Benefits per hr:  NRs 90-180
Benefit/Cost Ratio:        4.5-9.0
1/ Reference years for project components are not necessarily reference years of
the investment package. For each component, ceteris paribus, the number of years
represent a period that the work can be completed subject to staff implementation
capacity and constraints in construction season.
May 1978



FIGURE 2 . 1
NEPAL
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Kosi River Channels
PREPARED FROM NOVEMBER, 1977
AIR PHOTOGRAPHY.
CHARAE                 RIVER WIDTH
CGHOARTGREA   ;        ABOUT 200 M
NALA
NA LA
RIVERWIDTH
)     | \       | ABOUT 270 M
MAIN CHANNEL                               PROPOSED GUIDE ISLAND
(ABOUT 70% OF LOW FLOW)       /       AP                         N
SUPPLY CHANNEL
(ABOUT 30% OF LOW FLOW)
J   /       \   \       CHATRA MAIN CANAL
/   /   |      \  \    /  INTAKE CHANNEL
HEAD OF ALLUVIAL FAN        /        SHOAL                  CONDUIT
CHATRA MAIN CANAL
/       ~~BED BAR                        HEADREACH
\TERRACE
ACTIVE FLOOD PLAIN
0                    M Km                   1 Km
SCALE, APPROX. 1:8,500                       World Bank-18732



FlGURE 3.1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
River and Sediment Control Arrangements
GORGE EXIT                                                                                                 RL 375, ESTIMATED FLOOD LEVEL
GUIDEV_                                                                                                                                                          r
ISAD  SUPPLY                                                                                                                                      TRASH
CHANNEL                                                     CRANE BRIDGE                                                                    RACKS
RL 352
DIVIDE                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTAKE GATES
SLLJICE  WALL                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 LOWER TIERS
GATES            RIVER                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERMANENTLY CLOSED
BED-/
SHOAL                                                                                                              LEVEL
SEDIMENT DEPOSITS
RL340
FILLED                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANAL
\ \ F I L LED                                                                                                                                 = 1 ' ff o V S - . f B  ED LEVEL
AREA                                                                                                                                   .       R L334.5
DIVIDE
INTAKE    t       B   X                                  SECTION-A                                                                    SECTION-B
CFHANNEL     \    t/  /                           RIVER SLUICE STRUCTURE                                                           HEAD REGULATOR
/   l             X        ~~~~~~CMC HEAD REGULATOR
\ _ SLUICE' l / g-S--\sCOVERED CONDUIT
/ / \ \ \ DREDGER\ DREDGE BASIN ~~NALA
DREDGE BASIN \   \  \  \CANAL EMBANKMENT
/              ~~~~EMBANKMENT          SEDtMENT \\S           PERPASSAGE,-
/                              ~~~~~~~~~DISPOSAL    /                     c                                           SEDIMENT SLOT
SEDIMENT EJECTOR
EJECTOR CHANNEL                                                          SECTION - C
VORTEX TUBE SEDIMENT EJECTOR
NALA TO KOSI RIVER
W.,Id B3-k - 15733



FIGURE 3.2
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Historic and Projected Canal Closures
and Durations of Interruptions to Supplies
Average Number of Intake Closures Per Month
4
3
40
2
1 _, K SKm 
JUNE        JULY       AUGUST    SPETEMBER    OCTOBER
Average No. of Days' Interruption of Supplies                              - 30
Per Month at Farm Level
25-
20 --20
15 
10              1                                                             - 10
5/
JUNE        JULY       AUGUST    SEPTEMBER    OCTOBER          TOTAL
IZj Without Project, closure at river sediment content = 3,000 parts/million
2  With Project Works (Guide Island, river sluices, dredge basin, sediment ejector)
World Bank - 18734



FIGURE 3.3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR        1978               1979      |       1                                                 1983
FINANCIAL YEAR   FY78         FY79              FY80              FY81              FY82               F Y83
ACTIVITY
PROJECT YEAR                 (1)               (2)               (3)               (4)                (5)
QUARTER   IIII          1   III  IV  I    II  IIIi UIIV                   I                     1    1-i    IV
MONSOON        '  /.,  /,/  /// /s'//
STAFF MOBILIZATION
AIR PHOTO & MAPPING
LAND ACQUISITION                                                                             -
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
CANALSYSTEM        OPERATION
MAINTENANCE                                          _ _
CHATRA MAIN CANAL                                                         -                 - 
CANAL RESTORATION
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                                       -                 -
SEDIMENT CONTROLWORKS                                                      -
KOSI RIVER CONTROLWORKS
DRAINAGE WORKS                                                                                                  -
BLOCK DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
BLOCK DEVELOPMENT WORKS                                                                        -
FARM GROUP DEVELOPMENT
TUBEWELLS
EXPERIMENTAL WORKS
HYDELS-
PROCUREMENT
DELIVERIES
FEASIBILITY STUDIES
PRE-PROJECT
CONSULTANTS        PROJECT                                                                                                             _
World Bank -18735



FIGURE  5.1
NEPAL
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Suneari-Morang Irrigation
and Drainage Deveiopment
Board - Kathmandu
CHMN - Secretary. Agriculture
SECY- Project Manager
Project Managerrstan  to
Sunsari--Morang Irnrigation                                                               Coossrdnateion
and Drainege Development       _______                      _______                        Comte
Project -Biratnagr                                                                      commirtteea
Project                                                      Sunsari District                   Morang District        Assistant to
Consultants                                                     Coordination                        Coordination            DDG
Biratnagar                                                      Comm ittee                          Commi nee         Extension Service
Construction and                                                                                   Control Wiar  GSenior AgriApltune
O&M                                                                                         (Superintending                                                                          Officer)
ASuperintending                                                                                Engineer & DeputY
(Boks e (lo                                                                                   Proj(at Manager)                                                                  Agricultural Planning
..                                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ss
Main Canal            Mani Canal            Farm Group                   | Survey, and   ||       Contracts              Projet       | ConsitrLuction  ||Administration  ||           Extension            Extension1            Applied
Headreach           Lower Reach            Development  ||                     Design      ||Procurement   |           Plandnein9g,         Qualitv      |     and Finance   ||         Division     II      Division      j     Research
Division              Division              Division                   |     Division            Claims andt,   |  Bu geting,             Progress &               Division             Sunsari              Morang      ||Monitoring & 
{Enxgijnueer)i       'EnXgeiCnmrv)       AgIDivisional                        Enier                                     Liaso               Diiso                Officer)                                                        Di Xsion
t   gistribution           Distribution   ||     Heavy
iSYstem. West  |          Systmn  East          Equipment |
Division          |     Division    ||        Division     |
|(Blocks Il-V)        (  Blocks VIl-XV)       (  Mechanical                         |Line of Command
(Executive            (Executive             Engineer    |                                                  Liaison
|    Engineer)   l   l    Engineer)    l  l                                                                                                                                                                         d
World Bank -18736



-62-                       Figure 5.2
NEPAL
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Coordinating Activities
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage
Development Board
Chairman:                  Secretary to Government, Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Irrigation;
Directors-General:         Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture;
Representatives:           Ministries of Finance, Water, and
Power, Transport, Home and Panchayats,
Land Reform, Industries and Communi-
cations;
Central-level Officers:   Agricultural Development Bank and
Agricultural Inputs Corporation;
Regional Directors:        Irrigation and Agriculture (Eastern
Region);
Secretary:                 Project Manager, SMIDDP; and
Resident Representative,  World Bank (invited member)
Project Manager
Eastern Region            SMIDDP          Coordination Committee
Coordination Committee                      Sunsari-Morang Districts
Chairman; Regional                         Chairman; District Panchayat
Commissioner;                              Chairman;
Regional Directors;        Planning        Chief District Officer;
Irrigation and          and Control      District-level Officers of
Agriculture;             Division          Agriculture, Road, Water
Regional-level officers                      and Power, Land Reform,
of line departments                        Cooperative and Revenue
and ADBN and AIC;                          Departments, ADBN and AIC;
Project representative                      Project representative as
as invited observer.                       invited observer;
Farmers' representatives; and
District Technical Officer,
Panchayat Works.



-63-
FIGURE 6.1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Crop Calendar
Jan    Feb   Mar   Apr  May   Jun   Jul  Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
Effective_                             __
RaiEffe ,                             33   51   176   180  144   148    50
0                      \.\' vEYV    \                                         5 \
V~~~~~~~~~
10                                   Paddy 15%  
20         Wheat 10%
30                                *Local
tXe   30                              \       \Paddy
,*t   40                                                      49%
-4 50
60
70 _         _, \          _ .Local  -11%
70                                                            Pdy
80                    ~~~~~~Jute   30%
90        ilseedseds    3%
PulseT                                                             u %     \ ujsses     3%
.      I...L...... I  II               IVesetWblesI 2%  1
100  -_ j                      j             Sugatane 1 4%  r
% Area Irrigated
1-15 Days                           39    53.5              58.0
16-30 Days                           42.5  68.5              50.0
Sugarcane   .10   .40   .40   .10                                     .5      .5
Wheat                     .50   .50                                   .5       .5
Vegetables                0
Nursery Bed period, 5% total area
Land prep., puddling, ponding
Crop irrigation period
Irrigation stopped or requirement nil
May 1978



ANNEX 1
-64-
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRFIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Draft Provisional In-Service Training Programs
A. Engineering Training
(1) For Gazetted Officers
(a) Seminar type training on                   3-day lecture-seminars at Regional Training Center (RTC)
- Survey                                        every 3 to 4 months, led by 2 lecturers from Indian
- Planning and Design                           universities or equivalent, and project consultants.
- Construction Supervision
- O0M of Irrigation facilities
- Workshop management
- Project Management in general
(b) On-the-job training                        Continuous, by project consultants, with monthly one-day
- Engineering practice                          seminars.
(c) Study tours
- Projects in Malaysia, Thailand
- Ganges Canals (India)
- Projects in Punjab including            )  Annual visits - 2 selected officers - 3 weeks duration
tubewells (India)
- Projects in Nepal                       )  2-day visits - twice a year - 1 officer
(d) Overseas Engineering Training
- Irrigation                                 3 month visit every 2 years by Senior Gazetted Officer -
- Drainage                                      An annual visit (during monsoon) for 3 months by 3 selected
- Management                                    Gazetted Officers.
(2) For Non-Gazetted Officers
(a) Seminar type training on                   2-day lecture - seminars at RTC every 3 to 4 months, led by
- Survey, Planning and design                   project consultants, senior engineers and/or lecturers
Construction Supervision                      from Kathmandu
O0M of Irrigation facilities
Workshop management
(b) On-the-job training
- Engineering                                Continuous, by project consultants, with monthly one-day seminars
(c) Study tours
- Projects in Nepal                          2-day visits - twice a year - 1 non-gazetted officer
B. Agricultural Training
(1) For Gazetted Officers
(a) Seminars:
- International seminars related             1 officer to attend, at location as arranged in Nepal (about
to agricultural extension and                 once per year).
crop diversification
- Crop seminars organized by the             1 officer to attend, about twice a year.
Dept. of Agriculture
(b) Study tours (Nepal and oversees)
- Farm group Development Projects            1 week visits, about twice a year - 1 officer
in Nepal
- Crop tours organized by the Dept.          1 officer to attend, about one week, twice per year
of Agriculture in Nepal
- Rajasthan, West Bengal and others          2 to 3 week visit annually, 2 officers
command area projects in India
- Command area development projects
in Malaysia
- Command area development projects
in Thailand or Bangladesh                 3 to 4 weeks visit to one country each year, 1 or 2 officers
- Tubewell area development projects)
in India
- Sugarcane Research Stations Old
Pusa and Crimb tose in India
(c) Overseas Training
- Philippines (Rice)
- Mexico (Wheat)
- Mexico (Maize)                         )   1 officer for 6 months, alternate years
- Japan (Crop Intensification)
(2) For Non-Gazetted Staffs
(a) Seminars:
- On-the-job training organized by           All JTs and JTAs; 3 weeks initial training and one week twice
the project                                   a year, at the RTC; one day every two weeks at sub-centers
- Within the Country as organized            2 to 3 persons, as arranged.
by the Dept. of Agriculture
(b) Study tours
- Farm Group Development Projects            1 week visits, once a year, 2 to 3 persons
in Nepal
- Command area development projects          2-3 week visit annually, 2 persons
in India
May 1978



-65-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Monitoring and Project Evaluation
Objectives
1.        The objectives of monitoring and evaluation would be to:
(a) ensure that project works are constructed to the required
standards;
(b) provide early warning of any problems arising during project
implementation and operation;
(c) assess the benefits of irrigation and of agricultural sup-
porting services; and
(d) provide data for refining the technical design parameters
for future stages of development of the area.
Activities
2.        Quality of construction.  The Construction Quality, Progress and Cost
Control Division of the Planning and Control Wing (PCW) would be responsible for
testing materials and workmanship, independently of the Engineering Construction
Divisions, to ensure that specifications were being adhered to by contractors
and in force account work. In the event of faulty work being discovered in
tests, the senior Superintending Engineer, PCW, would be empowered to order
that it should be replaced satisfactorily at the contractor's cost. The Quality
Control Section, under the guidance of the project ocnsultants throughout
the construction period, would test random samples of construction materials
in accordance with internationally recognized standards, using the laboratory
facilities at Biratnagar. Materials would include cement, lime, gravel con-
crete aggregate, sand and bricks. The Section would also carry out site
tests of compacted earthwork and road surfacing (for density), check concrete
weigh-batching apparatus, cement content and water-cement ratio, and take
concrete cube samples for testing crushing strength at the intervals speci-
fied in the contracts. The project consultants would closely advise quality
control staff, and would carry out about 10% of the tests. Results and cal-
culations would be checked by a qualified engineer, and entered on weekly
test sheets, with comments on unusual variations. Failed tests would imme-
diately be reported to the Executive Engineer of the Division. Test sheets
would be available for review by visiting supervision missions, and would be
summarized at the end of each construction season.



-66-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        Progress and Cost Control.  Project progress would be reported
in similar form to that presently used on Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani
Zone) (NZ-I). Progress reports would be submitted to IDA in March, July
and December. Each report would contain brief descriptions of the main events
during the period, the status of project staffing, the growth of the area
effectively commanded by canals and, as a management tool, charts showing
progress on survey and design, land acquisition; tendering, evaluation and
award of contracts; delivery of equipment; and construction progress based on
(a) quantities completed in proportion to the final total, as reported by the
construction Divisions, and (b) value of work completed in relation to the
total cost, as reported by the Procurement Division. The chart would be of
the form devised for NZ-I. The Cost Control Section would monitor unit costs
of both contract and force account works and, with guidance from the project
consultants, would update the estimated total cost of the project every six
months, for inclusion in the progress report.
4.        Hydrology.  A survey of the channels and shoals of the Kosi river
would be carried out after the monsoon each year by the Survey and Design
Division (or by the Central Hydrology Division reporting directly to the
Project Manager), and completed by mid-November. Particular attention would
be given to the state of the left bank supply channel, and a description of
the situation would be given in the December progress report. The discharges
in the river and in the supply channel above and below the intake would be
gauged and recorded daily by the project staff. The sediment content in the
river at the intake and in the intake channel (including the bed load and
suspended sediment) would also be measured and analyzed daily by the project
staff, after training and with weekly checks by the consultants for the
sediment control works. The sediment inflow into the CMC would be calculated
daily from May through October, checked by the consultants, reported weekly
to the Project Manager and made available to supervision missions. So as to
monitor the effectiveness of the distribution system and analyse losses, the
discharge of the CMC would be recorded daily at about ten gauge sites and
metered weekly, while all secondary canals would be gauged and recorded
daily at their head regulators as well as at each tertiary offtake, and
metered monthly. The supplementary flow from streams and rivers entering the
CMC command would be gauged daily and their discharges recorded at the point
of crossing the CMC. Discharges of the major drains would also be gauged and
recorded for drainage design purposes.
5.        Annual Compilation of Cropping Patterns, Yield and Impact of Exten-
sion Services. This data would be selected by the agricultural extension
and research staff in cooperation with the District Agriculture Office.
Besides recording seasonally irrigated areas, yields and cropping patterns,
information should be collected on the number of contact farmers and "fol-
lowers" and estimated yield differences between "followers" and farmers who
do not follow extension advice. The data would be compiled annually and
analyzed annually, and the results would be submitted to IDA.



-67-                            ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.       tMonitoring of Watertable.  About 130 small observation pipes would
be installed at selected sites in the irrigated area to monitor the depth to
watertable from ground level and to provide early warning of any potential
waterlogging hazards. The AW staff would be responsible for the measurement
which is simple and requires little skill. Records would be retained at
project headquarters and available for IDA supervision missions.
7.        Evaluation Reports.  The Evaluation and Project Analysis Division
(EPAD) of the DA, assisted by project consultants, would carry out evaluation
studies at appropriate intervals. The studies would be on a stratified
sample basis and cover cropping patterns; yields; input requirements; use
of hired labor; farm incomes; non-farm incomes and their sources; marketing
channels and prices; farm capital owned; credit channels; interest rates;
tenancy pattern and arrangement. Based on the annual monitoring reports and
the surveys, EPAD would prepare two comprehensive evaluation reports to be
submitted to IDA by June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1986.
8.        Project Completion Report.  The Sunsari Morang Irrigation and
Drainage Development Board would prepare a project completion report to
cover actual project implementation schedule, project expenditures, cost
of executing project works, staffing schedule, design, and construction
standards. The report should analyze any deviation from the appraisal esti-
mates; if any. The project completion report would be completed within
a year after final disbursements of the Credit and submitted to IDA for
review.



-68--                          ANNEX 3
Page I
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Farm Budgets and Project Rent
Farm Budgets
1.        Representative Farm Size.  Size distribution of holdings in the
project are derived from a socio-economic survey of three villages in the
project area in 1977. The distribution is estimated as follows:
No. Holdings         Area of Holdings
Size Category             as % of total         as Z of total
Less than 1.0                  40                      6
1.0  -  3.0                    29                     17
3.0  -  5.0                    13                     15
5.0  -  7.0                     7                     13
7.0  -  9.0                     3                     8
Over    9.0                     8                     41
Total                    100                   100
2.        Individual farm budgets have been prepared for four representative
farm sizes: marginal (0.67 ha or I bigha), small (2.0 ha), medium (4.0 ha),
and large (7.0 ha). Since only 53% of the project area receives water at
present, the impact of the project on individual farms has been analyzed for
three situations:
(a) Situation I represents a change for rainfed to partially
improved irrigated cultivation, resulting from extension
and canal development down to tertiary outlet;
(b) Situation II represents a change from a combination of
rainfed and presently irrigated practice to partially
improved irrigated cultivation as under (a); and
(c) Situation III represents a change from presently irri-
gated practice to fully improved irrigated cultivation,
resulting from extension and canal development down
to farm level.
3.        Basic Assumptions.  The following major assumptions underlie the
estimates of net family incomes:



-69-                            ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a) Cropping Patterns and Intensity. Cropping intensity varies
indirectly with the farm size. At present, vegetables are
mostly grown on the rainfed areas on smaller farms, which
makes the intensity for rainfed farms higher than that of
irrigated farms. Sugarcane is mostly grown on larger farms
as it requires sizeable investments in cash inputs.
(b) Crop Yields and Input Requirements. Present and projected
yields as well as input requirements for various yield
levels are presented in Tables 6.1 and 6.2, respectively.
No change in yields and input requirements per ha is
assumed for various farm sizes.
(c) Family and Hired Labor. Based on the average family size
of 6.4 and the labor force participation rate of 55% in the
rural area, the average number of family farm workers has
been estimated at 3.5. The number of working days is about
20 and 25 days for the slack and peak months, respectively.
Hired labor is estimated as the difference between labor
requirement for each crop and family labor availability on
a monthly basis. The need to hire labor varies with the
size of farm. Generally, small farms virtually rely on
family labor for cropping. Some labor is exchanged during
peak seasons.
(d) Prices. Crops production and inputs are valued using the
financial prices given in Chapter VI.
(e) Land Taxes. Rates vary in accordance with the land grade.
In the project area, land taxes amount to Rs 75 per ha.
The rate is assumed to remain constant in the future.
(f) Non-Farm Incomes. A survey carried out by the ADBN esti-
mated non-farm incomes in the Terai NRs 370, NRs 500,
NRs 1,020 for small (less than 2.71 ha), medium (2.71 ha
- 5.42 ha) and large (above 5.42 ha) farmers, respectively.
These incomes are expressed in 1969-70 prices and are sub-
sequently inflated to the 1977 price level. Consequently,
for the farm budget analysis, NRs 600, NRs 850 and NRs 1,700,
are assumed for the respective non-farm incomes of 0.67 ha
and 2.0 ha, 4.0 ha, and 7.0 ha farm households under each
of the three situations. Furthermore, due to the lack of
data on consumption patterns and the supply of migrant
labor, it is assumed that non-farm incomes would remain
unchanged in the future.
Results of the farm budget analysis are presented in Table 1.



-70-                            ANNEX 3
Page 3
Estimates of Project Rent
4.         For the estimation of the farmer's ability and willingness to pay
water charges, project rent is calculated. Estimnates of p--oect rant for
the four representation farm sizes under three situations are presented in
Table 2. Imputed values for family labor are assumed equal to market wage
and management fees about 10% of the net returns. Allowances for risk and
uncertainty can be estimated from using a certainty equivalent (CE) instead
of the expected value (EV). If the yields have a normal distribution which
is known, CE can be expressed as a function of EV:
CE = EV - n x s
Where s = standard deviation
n = a factor that expresses the
farmer's risk aversion.
5.        Some empirical studies 1/ indicate that the farmer's choice of
cropping pattern and production techniques can be accurately predicted for
values of "n" in the interval of 1 and 2. The value of "n" decreases when the
farm size increases. For this analysis, it is assumed that n = 2 for 0.67 ha
and 2.0 ha farms, and n = 1 for 4.0 ha and 7.0 ha farms.
6.        Historic yields figures from the Terai shows that both rainfed and
irrigated yields vary within 20% from the average values. With improved irri-
gation, yields would become more stable. Consequently, it is assumed that
yields would vary within 10% of the average value after project implementation.
The above assumption would give values of CE as follows:
Farm Size               Future Without Project        Future With Project
0.67 ha                 CE  =  EV  -   .40EV          CE  =  EV  -  .20EV
2.0  ha                 CE  =  EV  -   .40EV          CE  =  EV  -  .20EV
4.0  ha                 CE  =  EV  -   .20EV          CE  =  EV  -  .10EV
7.0  ha                 CE  =  EV  -   .20EV          CE  =  EV  -  .10EV
7.        Estimates of project rent are presented in Table 2.
1/   Studies on farmer's risk behavior by the Development Research Center,
World Bank.



-71-
ANNEX 3
NEPAL                                     Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Farm Budgets
----Situation I-----   ----Situation II-----    ----Situation III----
P      FWO      FW      P        FWO      FW        P      FWO       FW
.67 HA (1 BIGHA) FAflM                 -_ -                     -_                -_       -                 -
Cropped Area               ha      1.02    1.06    1.19    1.05    1.19    1.19         1.00    1.05    1.31
Cropping Intensity          %       152      158     177      156      162     177       150      156      195
Gross Value of Produbtion NRs   2,140   2,500   3,850   2,450   2,960   3,850    2,020   2,660   5,110
Less Cost of Farm Inputs  NRs       910   1,080   1,510   1,030   1,200   1,510          720   1,000   2,050
Net Farm Incomes            NRs   1,230   1,420   2,340   1,420   1,760   2,340    1,300   1,660   3,060
Non-Farm Incomes            NRs     600      600      600     600      600      600      600      600      600
Less Land Taxes             NRs      50       50       50      50       50       50       50       50       50
NET FAMILY INCOMES          NRs   1,780   1,970   2,880   1,970   2,310   2,880    1,850   2,210   3,610
2.0 HA FARM
Cropped Area               ha      2.46    2.58    2.90    2.56    2.68    2.90         2.42    2.54    3.30
Cropping Intensity          %       123      129     145      128      134      145      121      127      165
Gross Value of Production NRs   5,040   5,970   9,660   5,650   6,660   9,660    5,090   6,870  11,880
Less Cost of Farm Inputs  NRs   2,450   2,960   4,290   2,790   3,380   4,290    2,280   3,110   5,100
Net Farm Incomes            NRs   2,590   3,010   5,350   2,860   3,280   5,350    2,810   3,760   6,780
Non-Farm Incomes            NRs     600      600      600     600      600      600      600      600      600
Less Land Tax               NRS     150      150      150     150      150      150      150      150      150
NET FAMILY INCOMES          NRs   3,040   3,460   5,800   3j310   3,730   5,800    3,260   4,210   7,230
4.0 HA FARM
Cropped Area                ha     4.28    4.44    5.16    4.44    4.76    5.16         4.60    5.04    6.20
Cropping Intensity          %       107      111     129      111      119      129      115      126      155
Gross Value of Production NR9   7,630   9,200  15,770   8,730  10,800  15,770    9,830  13,680  24,710
Less Cost of Farm Inputs  NRS   3,970   5,100   7,720   4,380   5,480   7,720    4,580   6,180  10,510
Net Farm Incomes            NRs   3,660   4,100   8,050   4,350   5,320   8,050    5,250   7,500  14,200
Non-Farm Incomes            NRs     800      800      800     800      800      800      800      800      800
Less Land Tax               NRs     300      300      300     300      300      300      300      300      300
NET FAMILY INCOMES          NRs  4,160   4,600   8,550   4,850   5,820   8,550    5,750   8,000  14,700
7.0 HA FARM
Cropped Area                ha     7.07    7.56    8.96    7.63    7.98    8.96         7.77    8.12   10.57
Cropping Intensity          %       iO      108     128      109      114      128      111      116      151
Gross Value of Production NRs 12,310  15,300  27,260  15,250  19,020  27,260   16,780  23,980  40,540
Less Cost of Farm Inputs  NRa  7,400   9,130  14,870   8,510  11,280  14,870    9,130  11,760  18,330
Net Farm Incomes            NRs  4,910   6,170  12,390   6,740   7,740  12,390    7,650  12,220  22,210
Non-Farm Incomes            NRs  1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700    1,700   1,700   1,700
Less Land Tax               NRs     530      530      530     530      530      530      530      530      530
NET FAMILY INCOMES          NRs  6,080   7,340  13,560   7,910   8,910  13,560    8,820  13,390  23,380
Note:  Situation I      From rainfed to partially improved irrigation, resulting from extension and canal
development down to tertiary outlets.
Situation II : From present irrigation to partially improved irrigation as under Situation I.
Situation III:  From present irrigation to fully improved irrigation, resulting from extension and
canal development down to farm level.
May 1978



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Estimate of Project Rent
.67 ha Farm.                             2.0 ha Fam                                 4.0 ha Fam                                     7.0 ha Far
Situation I  Situation II  Situation III Situation I Situation II situation III  Situation I  Situation IT    Situation III  Situation I   Situation II   Situation III
w W                  14     1            w W            1             w              w W  W                                   TY W  W  W                                4W
1.   Expected Gross Production       2500  3850   2960  3850   2660  5110   5970  9660   6660 -9660   6870  11880   9200  15770   10800  15770   13680  24710   15300  27260   19020  27260   23970   40540
Value (NRs)
2.   Certainty Equivalent of         1500  2690   1780  2690   1600  4090   3580  6760   4000  6760   4120   9500   7360  13400    8640  13400   10940  22240   12240  23170   15220  23170   19180   36490
(1)   (NRs)
3.  Production Costs (MNs)           1080  1510   1200  1510   1000  2050   2960  4290   3140  4290   3110   5100   5100   7720    5480   7720    6180  10510    9130  14870   11280  14870   11760   18330
4.   Family Labor !'  (NRs)           640   790    700   790    700   870   1350  1780   1440  1780   1380   1870   1830   2200    2260   2200    2310   3070    2560   3080    2730   3170    2430    2860
5.  Net Returns        (NRs)
(2)  -(3) -(4)                -220  +390   -120   390   -100  1170   -730   690   -580   690   -370   2590    430   3480            900   3480    2450   8660       550   5220    1210   5130    4990   15300
6.  Management Fee   (NRs)             0    -40      0     40      0    120      0     70      0     70      0     260      40    350       90    350      250    870        60    520      120    510      500    1530
7.  Implicit Lend Rent(NRs)
(5) - (6)                     -220   350   -120   350   -100  1050   -730   620   -580   620   -370   2330    390   3130             810   3130    2200   7790       490   4700    1090   4620    4490   13770
Project Rent      (NRs)           -    570      -    470      -   1150      -   1350      -   1200      -      -       -    2740      -     2320      -      5590       -    4210      -      3530     -       9280
(At full development)
Project Rent per ha (NRs)
(At full development)          -    850      -    700      -   1710      -    680      -      600    -    1350      -      690      -      580      -      1400      -      600      -       500     -       1330
I/ Valued at market wage rate
May 1978



-73-                             ANNEX 4
Page 1
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Basis for Economic Analysis
Official Exchange Rate (OER)
1        For some years, HMGN has maintained a dual exchange rate, one in
terms of US dollars and the other in terms of Indian rupees (leading to broken
cross exchange rates between the dollar and the Indian rupee). On October 9,
1975, HMGN depreciated the Nepalese rupee against the dollar by 18.4% re-
sulting in an exchange rate of NRs 12.5 to US$1 while keeping unchanged its
exchange rate of NRs 1.39 to Indian rupee 1. On March 20, 1978, the rate of
exchange was changed to NRs 12.0 to US$1 and NRs 1.45 to Indian rupee 1. Con-
version of financial prices have been made at this latest rate.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
2.        In order to take into account the existing import and export taxes,
as well as trade restrictions, a SCF is applied to the nontraded component
of various inputs and outputs. Absence of any economy-wide models and the
inadequacy of official statistics, which do not record a substantial amount
of trade across the border with India, makes it difficult to estimate a
correct SCF for Nepal. However, ceteris paribus, if a good is valued the
same in India as well as in Nepal at the border, the SCF for Nepal can be
derived as follows:
EP Ni
SCFN  =ai  x -                   (1)
FPNi
where SCF    standard conversion factor for Nepal
n
a.         : proportion of marginal expenditure devoted
to each commodity
ERNi       : economic price of ith commodity in Nepal
FPNi       :  financial price of ith commodity in Nepal
Economic price of ith good expressed in NRs can be estimated from:
OERN
Ni       Ii       OER(



74                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
where EP    : economic price of ith commodity in India
OERN     official exchange rate for Nepal
OERI     official exchange rate for India
Furthermore, we assume that (a) a constant relationship exists between Nepalese
and Indian financial prices for a number of goods, such that k    k  . k  =K;
and (b) marginal expenditure devoted to ith commodity is the same forjboth
India and Nepal. Consequently, equation (1) can be rewritten:
SCF   =    E    xiai x   -          x -      (3)
N      OER1               FP       k
I           ~~~~~~Ii.
where SCFI  : standard conversion factor for India
EPI.
since SCF        ai  x  FP(4)
IiF
Rewrite (3)
OER
N  SCF
SCF   =          x     I x 1
OER                 (5)
I
3.        A review of price statistics at the border area shows that the ratios
of Nepalese and Indian financial prices of major goods such as rice, wheat,
pulses, vegetables during the last three years fluctuate around 1.40 to 1.45.
Consequently, with OER   =  8.0 and SCF   =  .80, estimate of SCF Nwould range
from 0.83 to 0.86.  Since SCFI has not taken quantity restriction  into account
it only provides an upper limit to the estimate of SCF . Because of the
approximate nature of this calculation, a SCFN of 0.8 has been used for the
economic analysis. In order to take into account error in estimating SCF,
sensitivity analysis has been carried out to determine the critical value of
SCF which makes the project non-viable.
Basic Assumptions for Economic Analysis
4.        Economic Prices:  The economic prices of agricultural outputs and
inputs are discussed in Chapter VI. Detailed calculation is provided in Table 1.
5.        Saving:  No premium has been put on public or private savings.  Con-
sequently, public income and private consumption are assumed to be equal.



-75-                            ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        Economic Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor:  At present, the population
in the project area is estimated at 285,000, out of which about 80% are en-
gaged in farming activities. The present labor force rate is etimated at 55%
of total population. On the basis of 250 days per worker per annum, the total
labor supply is estimated at 31.3 M man-days. Assuming an annual population
growth rate 2.1% per year, and the same labor force rate, the labor supply
at full development in year 10 would be 38.3 M man-days per year.
7.        Tables 2 and 3 gives estimates of monthly labor distribution per
crop per ha and total monthly requirements in the project area, respectively.
The present annual demand is some 9.3 M man-days or only about 30% of the
total labor supply. Furthermore, labor demand has a pronounced seasonal
pattern, with peak monthly requirements occuring in June and July (about 88-98%
of total labor supply respectively). This peak demand is provided for by
migrant labor from the neighboring Indian State of Bihar and from the Hills,
where unemployment is severe. However, in slack months, agricultural labor
demand occupies as low as 3-4% of the labor supply. Consequently, the current
wage level probably overstates the economic opportunity cost of farm labor.
8.        On the basis of available information from the project area and
experience from similar areas, the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor
at different times of the year can be represented by an "S-shaped" curve.
The marginal opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels of
demand and increases when more labor is absorbed into field works. The in-
crease in the opportunity cost is initially slow and reflects the scarcity
of alternative productive employment, but it is more rapid when full labor
supply is utilized. At employment level above the maximum available in the
area, the opportunity cost would again increase at a slower rate since a
large number of migrants would be attached to the project area from neighbor-
ing areas. In practice, it is reasonable to approximate this idealized
"S-shaped" curve by three straight segments (Figure 1). The monthly incre-
mental economic cost of farm labor is presented in Table 3.
9.        Economic Cost of Unskilled Construction Labor:  The restoration of
the distributary system and the construction of additional tertiary canals
and drains would be carried out by labor-intensive methods during the agri-
cultural slack season (November - March). The main source of labor supply
for these activities would come from the project area. Since the avail-
ability of labor for construction purposes is associated with seasonal agri-
cultural demand labor, the constant financial wage rate (NRs 8 per man-day)
may under or overstate the opportunity cost of construction labor. Thus,
the opportunity cost for construction labor is estimated from the "S-shaped"
curve. This would give an economic opportunity cost of NRs 2.5 per man-day.
Experiences elsewhere indicate that laborers would require 25-30% premium
to shift from agriculture to construction since the latter is harder phy-
sical work than the former. Thus, the economic opportunity cost of con-
truction labor would be NRs 3.25 per man-day or about 50% of the economic
market wage rate (NRs 8 times SCF of 0.8).



-76-                             ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       Construction Conversion Factor (CCF):  The construction of project
components is carried out by equipment, skilled and unskilled labor. For the
economic analysis, the construction conversion is estimated as follows:
% of the
Conversion Factor       Construction Cost
Traded Component              1.00                    40
Skilled Labor                0.80                     25
Unskilled Labor              0.50                     35
Total                                            100
Weighted Average         0.78
11.       Project Cost:  For the economic analysis of the whole package, the
following costs are included: (i) all civil works and buildings except for
the pilot development of improved irrigation and drainage; (ii) technical
services except for aerial photography and mapping and feasibility studies;
(iii) equipment; (iv) administration and engineering; and (v) operation and
maintenance. The construction costs are multiplied to the CCF; the domestic
components to the SCF and the traded components to the OER to express them
in terms of border prices.
12.       Development Period:  Project works would be completed by 1982/83.
Project benefits would occur, however, as soon as the restoration works of
each distributary would be completed. On average, full development of the
project would be reached about 5 years after project completion.
13.       Using the foregoing assumptions, the economic evaluation for the
investment package as well as for project components has been analyzed in
Chapter VIII.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Paddy   Wheat   Jute   Sugarcane   Oilseeds   Urea    TSP         MP
Projected 1985 World Market Price (US$ ton)-/              390    186      344      340          459       190    160       70
Adjustment for Quality Differentials (%)                    70    100       70      100          100       100    100      100
Projected Price Adjusted for Quality (US$ ton)             273    186      240      340          459       190    160       70
International Shipping and Handling (US$ ton)             +25-   +30-/       0-/    +20          +40       +20    +20      +20
FOB/CFF Biratnagar Price (US$/ton)                         318    236     240       360          499       210    180       90
(NRs/ton)                      3720   2700    3000       4500         6240     2620   2250    1125
Transport and Hnadling Cost in Domestic Market
(NRs/ton)5/                    -220   -140    -350       -450         -450     +200   +200    +200 ~
Farm-gate Price           (NRs/ton)                       3500   2560    2650      4050         5790      2820   2450    1325
Processing Ration (%)                                       65    100       85        9           70       100    100      100
Adjusted Farm gate Prices (rounded)                       2300   2600    2300       360         4000      2800   2500    1300
1/ Source:  IBRD Price Forecasts dated June 1977.  These forecasts are expressed in 1977 constant prices.
2/ Pricing Basis
Rice     : Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok.
Wheat      Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring, ex-store Thunder Bay.
Jute     : Bangladesh White D, FOB Chittagong
Oilseeds : Nigerian, cif Europe
Urea     : Bagged, FOB Japan (46% Nitrogen)
TSP      : Bulk, FOB Gulf (60% Phosphate)
MP        : Bulk, FOB Vancouver (60% Potassium)
3/ Nepal is a net exporter of foodgrain and jute, net importer of sugar, oilseeds and fertilizer.                        IL
4/ For paddy and wheat, the international shipping and handling costs from Bangkok and Canada to India
(the imported nation of Nepalese rice) outweighs that from Nepal to India.  Transport cost of jute                      >
from Bangladesh and Nepal to any importing country would be similar.
5/ Adjusted by a SCF of 0.8 for the elements having non-traded components.
May 1978



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PR3JECT
Monthly Labor Requirements Per Na
crop       Yield           Jan             Feb            Mar            Apr            May           June           July          ulugust          Sept          Oct            Nov              Dec          Totals
t/ha         M/D            M/D           MN/             M/D            M/D            M/D            M/D            M/D           M/D            M/D            M/D            M/D             M/D
1. 1                                                                     5             39             28              6              5             13              10                           106
Local       1. 3                                                                      5            40              30              6             5             13              10                           109
Paddy       1.5                                                                       5             40             30              6             5             13               11                          110
1.8                                                                      5             40             30              7             6              14              13                          115
2.1                                                                      5             40             30              7                            15              15                          118
2.3                                                                      6             40             32              7             6              16              1(-                          120
1.6                                                       5             50             20              7             22             11                                                          119
2.0                                                       5             50             20              7             23             12                                                          121
HYV         2.4                                                        5             50             20              7             24            12                                                           122
Paddy       2.7                                                        5             50             20             10            25             12                                                          123
3.0                                                       5             50                             8             29            15                                                          130
1.0                                       20             16             27             20             58              9                                                                         150
1.1                                       20             16             27             20             60             10                                                                         153
Jute        1.5                                        20             16             27             20             74             15                                                                         172
2.0                                       22             18             30             25             94             23                                                                         212
8           14             11                           15              8             15             10             14             14             It              is            10             137
8.7          15     /       11                           15      1       8             15             10             15             15             11              15            10             140
vegetables
10           16             11                           15              8             16             SE             17             17             12              13            10             147
15           22             12                           15              8             17             12             21             22             12              16            12             169
.8          10              5             5             20             12                                                                                                       28              80                        o
1.0          10              5             5             21             12                                                                                                       28              81
Wheat       1.1           10              5             5             21             13                                                                                                       28              82
1.5           4              6             6             24             14                                                                                         16            20              90
1.8           4              6             6             29             15                                                                                         16            20              96
2.5           4              7             7             36             20                                                                                         16            20             110
.4                          8            12                                                                                                        1                                            21
.5                         10            15                                                                                                       1                                             26
Pulses       .6                          12            16                                                                                                       2                1             1              32
.8           2             14            17                                                                                                        6               2             2              43
.4           8              4            16              4                                                                                                        15             7              54
.5          10              5            20              5                                                                                                        16             8              64
Oilseeds    .6            10              5            20              5                                                                                                        16             8              70
.8          12              5            30              8                                                                                        12              14            10              85
I5          20             25            23             20              8              4              4                                           21              21            14             160
Sugar-       16           21             26            24             20              9              5              5                                          21               21            15             167
Cane         17           25             30            26             20              9              5              5                                          21               21            16             178
20          26      L      33            29             20              9              5              5                                           21              21            18             188
22          27             39            30             20              9              5              5                                           21              21            19             196
28          38             45            33             20              9              5              5                                           23              23            20             221                 x
May 1978



-79-                             ANNEX 4
Table 3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
STAGE I DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
Labor Requirements                Incrpmental Economic COst
('000 md)                   --------NRs '000------
FWO        FW
January        106        178                     +   151.73
February        83        196                     +   237.12
March          490         602                    +   249.54
April          533        769                     +   568.40
May          1,267      1,913                     + 2,002.80
June        2,338       2,581                     +   481.95
July        2,757       3,001                     +   466.65
August         832      1,285                     + 1,218.73
September     494         567                     +   155.84
October        693        759                     +   126.06
November       658         825                    +   394.0
December       157         253                    +   205.00
10,408     12,929                        6,257.08
NOTE: FWO = Future Without Project
FW = Future With Project
March, 1978



-80-                         ANNEX 4
Table 4
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Annual Gross Benefits (Economics)
(At full Development)
Crop                    Price      Production          Value
(NRs/ton)    ('000 tons)    (NRs million)
FWIO   FW       FWO      FW
Paddy                             2,300       77.3  107.9    177.8   248.2
Wheat                             2,600        5.4   12.5      14.0    32.0
Pulses                            3,700        0.7    1.4      2.6      5.2
Jute                              2,300       26.0   30.9     60.0    71.1
Oilseeds                          4,000        0.7    1.4      2.8      5.6
Sugarcane                           360       17.6   57.8      6.4    20.8
Vegetables                        1,900       20.8   32.0     39.5    60.8
Sub-total                                                 303.1   443.7
1.  Incremental Gross Benefit                                         140.6
Production Cost
Cash Inputs (including bullocks charges)                      61.6   102.2
Incremental Cost of Farm Labor                                         6.3
2.  Incremental Production Cost                                       40.6
3.  Incremental Net Benefits (1) - (2)                                93.7
NOTE:
FW = Future With Project
FWO = Future Without Project
March, 1978



ANNEX 4
Figure 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Economic Opportunity Cost of Labor
NRs/man-day
6-
4-
20             40             60              do            ido
Labor Demand
Labor Supply (%)
Footnote: The shape of the curve is based on the following assumptions:
(i) At minimum employment levels, the marginal cost of labor would
be the value of additional consumption needed for family to
undertake field works (NRs 1.5 per man-day), plus the value of
forgone activities (NRs 0.5 per man-day).
(ii) When the monthly farm labor requirements exceed the off-peak
monthly family labor supply (taken as 50% of the full supply),
the marginal cost is given by the slack market wage rate of
NRs 4.0 per man-day multiplied by the SCF (NRs 3.2 per man-day)
(iii) iwhen about 80% of available farm labor is employed (the present
peak level of demand in the project area), the marginal cost is
given by the peak wage (NRs 6.0) multiplied by the SCF (NRs 4.8
per man-day); and
(iv) when the employment is larger than the estimated supply of farm
labor from the area, the labor would be drawn from near-by area
and opportunity cost would slightly increase to NRs 7.0 per man-
day, multiplied by the SCF (NRs 5.6).
March, 1978



-82-                          ANNEX 5
Page I
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A.   Documents Relating to the Project
1.   Final Report on the Development of Irrigation in the Central
and Eastern Terai Plain, Nipon Koei Co. Ltd., 1972.
2.   Economic Survey 1976-77, His Majesty's Government of Nepal,
Ministry of Finance, 1977.
3.   Quarterly Economic Bulletin, Volume X, His Majesty's Government.
of Nepal, Nepal Rastra Bank, Mid-July, 1976.
4.   Nepal's Development Strategy - Need for External Assistance,
His Majesty's Government of Nepal, Ministry of Finance,
September, 1976.
5.   Agricultural Marketing Information, Volume VI, His Majesty's
Government of Nepal, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation,
January, 1976.
6.   Report in Trade Flow - Survey of Agricultural Commodities,
particularly Cereal Grains in Nepal 1971/72, His Majesty's
Government of Nepal, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Irrigation, 1972.
7.   Feasibility Report on Chatra Irrigation Project (Volumes I-IV),
His Majesty's Government of Nepal, Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Irrigation, August, 1977.
8.   Agreement between His Majesty's Government of Nepal and the
Government of India for Construction of the Chatra Canal Project,
and associated correspondence.
9.   Agreement between His Majesty's Government of Nepal and the
Government of India concerning the Kosi project, as amended,
December 19, 1966.



-83-                           ANNEX 5
Page 2
10. Report on Fluvial Processes in Kosi River and Sedimentation
Problems of Chatra Main Canal, by Professor Khalid Mahmood,
George Washington University, December, 1977.
B.   Selected Working Papers
1.   Implementation Schedule of Chatra Canal Scheme by Government
of India (delegated to State of Bihar's River Valley Projects
Department), 1962-1974.
2.   Statement of Breaches and Structural Damage to Chatra Main
Canal, 1976.
3.   Areas Commanded by Secondary Canals of the Chatra system.
4.   Build-up of Area under Irrigation with the Project.
5.   Detailed Implementation Schedule for SMIDDP.
6.   Detailed Survey, Laboratory and Office Equipment List for project.
7.   List of Agricultural Monitoring Activities to be Carried Out.
8.   Map of Groundwater Table Depths in CMC command area.
9.   Chatra Main Canal Discharge Measurements and Loss Estimates.
10. Detailed List of Civil Works Items and Costs.
11. List of Construction Material Requirements for project.
12. Note on Agricultural Extension, Research and Training.
13. Cropping Pattern Diagram and Data.
14. Compilation of Working Tables (Subjects covered: Climate,
Water Requirements, Farm Budget, Cost Recovery Economic
Analysis).






OO~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                     84~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       5H~~~~~~~~~~                                                        5&    ~~~~~~~~~IBRD 13469
8'2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC 8478
NEPAL
INDIA                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUNSARI-MORANG IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
Project  Location                                                                             3O-
Mountain Regioni                                        Rivers
7      Hill Region;-    Development Region Boundaries
inerTeai  i                                              dmistictrB nariesZnlBudre
Inererrai                                               ADmintistrBunativesZnlB         dra
Kathmandu Valley                          -             International Boundaries
/  0T                         C                                                                               [7fff:::.:  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ongoing  Project
AAMR                                                                                       ~                                                                           17 1         Proposed Project
001AN                                          DA OiLEKHJ     JAJARoKrT
KAI-A
N-~~~~~~~RRTAAO
RULPA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
-28'~,~             *'                                                                                                                                                                                                               \_ A'4-  -28
WY                                                                                                                  DEVELOPME~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DNT  NM
BHAKTAPUR                                                                   jR 
n, V C-10 ~    ~        ~        0      2      4     0      0      0    10     40     6
CHINA                                                                                                                                                                              0)(0H2 40 60  L 0
I     HIR I                                                                                                         fOrrprserprard0teWrivosrf   is.roro                   poe
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y    Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~o  sraesp o eo  od,or,,rpe   O .rrrrprrre o p
orrePAJsp      HUTA           C                                           it                                                                                                                   oosrsos,rohoradoirPIy   rr  o    aro    seoi    aksd
IA'~~~~~~~~~~~sfirrssy;rprer rrriseoars                           ~      aysdrersro
Sn          U se;                                       or~4 
I      N2D I A                                                                                                                                                                                                     IWPePaP R fpbOdrd






NEPAL
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Stage I Project
CHATRA MAIN CANAL COMMAND AREA
Chatra main canal                                  Main roads
Intake                      ---Boundary  of canal command                        -1' Limit of farm groupdevelopment, stage I
CHATRA                             Secondary canals                                   Protective embankment
)    >               ,.        ~~~~~~~~Limit of irrigation, 1977                   Towns                                              u<              ,\ t
r  .  E    p    l    :    i    ;    1~~1  ,    ~aua  drin ond stram                                         in'ternational  6 u d 
.;    g   B   I   I   .....  li . \N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA\ R                                                                                                                      4 
: ,r  ,,,,  I  \N                  '\\  \    \                                   v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANE
K  I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
.  ti.                                                                           I                                                                              es
IN D IA                      ._ou                                                       n
the cpon to hMhc tin attach.d                                                                         ilometers
&l   o    8i,ga/                                 dn~ d--on,-a,n- cod and the
b-ud-r,e oh.-a nn thin -ap
nn t imply, nn the pact nf the                                                                                                         1 
Wnrld Bank andi to ffdhan. any 
Iudg-en on the legal etto ofZ                                                  ____________________________________
-yt tar/tact or any -nd-rnn-t                                                                            Miles                                 '
/-cccptanc of coc ko-d-r,e.                                                                                                                         O  0



