Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
1,CAY   3 27S-- ..2A4                                    Report No. 890 1-IM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNlING AND MATENANCE PROJECT
November 8, 1990
Department III
Infrastructure and Energy Opera Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a res d disribtion and may be used by recipints only In the peforannce d
their offiei dutis. ts contens may not oherwie be discsd whout Wodd ank authoraton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
April, 1990
US$1 = J$ 7.00
J$ 1.0   US$ 0.14
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
British/US Units          Metric Equivalent
1 foot (ft)               - 0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)               = 1.609 kilometers (im)
1 square mile (mi )         2.589 square kilometers (km )
1 pound (lb)              = 0.454 kilogram (kg)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT                 Annual Average Daily Traffic
CDB                  Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
C'IF                 Cost, insurance and freight
DC                   Directorate of Construction [MOC(W)]
DEMS                Directorate of Electrical and Mech. Services [MOC(W)]
DM                   Directorate of Maintenance [MOC(W)l
DMP                  Directorate of Major Projects (MOC(W)]
DPB                 Directorate of Planning and Budgeting [MOC(W)]
DTS                 Directorate of Technical Services [MOC(W)]
EEC                 European Economic Community
GOJ                 Government of Jamaica
ICB                 International competitive bidding
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IERR                International Economic Rate of Return
IRF                  International Road Federation
KMR-UTP              Kingston Metropolitan Region Urban Transport Project
LGB                 Local competitive bidding
MOC(W)               Ministry of Construction (Works)
HPUT                 Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
PSIP                Public Sector Investment Program
SFD                  Saudi Fund for Development
SOE                 Statement of expenditures
TSM                 Traffic Systems Management
US-AID              United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page   No.
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .................................
II. THE SECTOR  .........................1..................... 
A.      The Transport  Sector  ................................                         1
B.      Sector Organization  .................................                          1
C.      Sector Issues  ...  ...................................                         2
D.      Roads and Road Transport  ............................                          2
E.      Road Transport Industry  .............................                          3
F.      Pricing and Cost Recovery  ...........................                          4
G.      Investment in the Road Subsector  .....                   ...............       5
H.      Road Subsector Issues  ...............................                          6
I.      Government Strategy and Rationale for Bank's                     ........       8
Involvement
III.   THz PROJECT  .............................................                               9
A.      Project Origin  ..........              ............................            9
B.      Project Objectives  ..................................                        10
C.      Project Description  .................................                        10
D.      Project Execution  ...................................                        11
Organization & Management  .........................                       11
Training  ............           ..............................            12
Implementation  .........             ...........................          13
Status of Project Preparation  .....................                       14
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements  ....                  .........      15
E.      Project Costs ........................................                        15
F.      Financing Plan  ..........              ............................          16
G.      Procurement  ...........            ..............................            16
H.      Disbursements  ..........             .............................           17
I.      Accounts and Audits  .................................                        18
J.      Economic Justificaiton  ..............................                        18
K.   Project Benefits ................   19
L.      Environmental  Impact  ................................                       19
M.      Land Acquisition  .........              ...........................          20
N.      Project Risks  ..........             .............................           20
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED .21
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Jamaica in April, 1990. The mission comprised Messrs. John Flora (Principa'.
Urban Transport Specialist), Stephen Pereira (Finance Specialist, Consultant)
and Donald Stout (Economist, Consultant). The report was reviewed by
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Graham Smith (division chief), and Ping-Cheung Loh (director) and assembled by
Keith Kehlbeck.
TEXT TABLES                                                             Page No.
I11.1  Sunmary of Costs ..................................           15
II.2  Procurement Arrangements ..........................           17
ANNEXES
1    Five-Year Investment Program ........................
2    Institutional Strengthening .........................
3    Project Implementation Schedule .....................
4    Project Cost Tables .................................
5    Financial Assessment ................................
6    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .................
7    Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ........................................
MAP
1    Main Transport Network                         Map No. 22580



JAMAICA
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PR)JECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Government of Jamaica.
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Construction (Works).
Amount:           US$ 35 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayment in 17 years including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives:       The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a)
strengthen the institutional capabilities of HOC(W) to plan,
manage, and maintain the road infrastructure in a cost-
effective manner; (b) improve the cost-effectiveness of the
Borrower's public sector investments; and (c) improve road
safety.
Project
Description:      The proposed Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance
Project would finance managerial and technical strengthening
of the Ministry of Construction (Works) [HOC(W)J, and part
of a US$ 302 million five-year infrastructure investment
program designed to upgrade and bring back to a condition of
maintainability, and improve safety on, the nation's road
infrastructure. Components to be financed by the proposed
Bank Project include: (i) reorganization of MOC(W),
development and annual updating of the multi-year road
infrastructure investment program, development of mechanisms
to coordinate and expedite external funding programs,
development of an environmental impact assessment process,
technical assistance, training of staff, studies, and
equipment to facilitate subsector management (62); (ii)
design, construction, and supervision of selected civil
works including construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
of roads and drainage facilities, roadway geometric
improvements, and traffic and safety improvements (90?);
(iii) measures to improve the management of MOC(W)'s
equipment fleet, including equipment, spare parts and tools,
and management systems (2I); and (iv) technical assistance,
equipment, and other support necessary to develop a
comprehensive road safety program (2?).



Benefitst          The project will precipitate institutional improvements in
the operation of MOC(W) and more cost effective management
of a major portion of the PSIP. The useful 1'ife of
infrastructure will be increased, and vehicle operating
costs reduced. Efficient operations will encourage
continued funding by external donors. Overall, the
project's IERR is in excess of 40X.
Riskst             There is the risk that sufficient budget allocations and/or
timely authorization by the Ministry of Finance to spend
allocated funds (warrants) will not be made consistently
during the life of the project. The annual review
mechanisms will help assure that, if external factors do
constrain desirable funding levels, the core maintenance
program will remain and capital investments that are funded
will be of the highest priority. The Government has,
however, confirmed the priority of the program and its
funding needs, and warrant releases have been changed to a
quarterly rather than monthly basis. As part of macro-
policy dialogue, Bank representatives will still need to
review and confirm periodically with Government the
priorities of this program.
Summary of Project Costs
(US$ millions)
OOXPCPENS        LOCAL   FourWEN   SCTWL   UW2!    lAST COST
Civll Wafks       13.0    10.9    33.9    32S         82S
Supegvsiton       2.?      0.4     3.1    132         8Z
4idp.Aet &
Space Parts       0.1      0.5     0.6    63S         12
Tech. Asst.,
Txaining & Studles  1.S    _ 2.4   _J. _   SS         9Z
TOTAL BUSt COSTS  27.1    14.2    41.3    34Z       lOOZ
Physical
CoULeacles        2.6      1.1     3.7    s02         5z
Price
CoatLxingects    3.YS   1.8    ,   S      342        13Z
TOTAL
CCOVT BZIGKIrS  6.1      2.9      9.0    322        222
TOTAL           33.1    17.1    50.3    34Z         122Z
qj Total Costs lnclude app1ately USS 7.5 allen In ta*  sad duties.



Financirg Plan
Local     Foreign      Total
Govt. of Jamaica                      15.3         ---       15.3
IBRD                                  17.9        17.1       35.0
33.2       17.1        50.3
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal Year          1991      1992     1993      1994     1995
Annual                     5.8       7.9      8.0       6.8       6.5
Cumulative                 5.8      13.7     21.7      28.5     35.0
Estimated Economic Rate of Return:   > 40Z
2J In#t.udes retroactive financing and deposit to special account.



II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.   The Transport Sector
2.01      Comprising four subsectore - roads, rail, maritime, and air - the
basic transport infrastructure required to meet Jamaica' s economic development
needs is in place. The country's land transport system includes over 12,000
miles of roads, about 85% of which is paved, and a railroad system of
approximately 150 miles. Except for about 25 miles of track owned by the two
bauxite companies, the railway is owned and operated by the Jamaican Railway
Corporation, a Government-owned company.   With the exception of bauxite
industry related exports and imports, however, all internal freight movement
is by road transport, and practically all passenger traffic travels on the
road system.   The maritime subsector operates through 11 ports, generally
described as Kingston and the Outports.   Total traffic through Kingston in
1989 was approximately 3. 1 million tons, about equally divided between general
cargo and bulks. Traffic through the Outports is primarily bulks and, in
1989, was about 9 million tons, includtng 7.1 million tons of bauxite and
alumina. The Jamaica Merchant Marine was established in 1975 and serves as
the national shipping company. Its fleet of two vessels is supplemented by
chartered ships. There is also a private shipping company with two ships.
The country has two international airportst one at Montego Bay, which serves
the north coast and the tourist traffic, and another at Kingston, which serves
the southern coast and caters mai-ly to business travel.  There are also
several small domestic airports and airstrips. Air service is provided by Air
Jamaica, the national airline, and several foreign carriers. There is a small
private airline offering domestic services.
B. Sector Organization
2.02      Except for the roads subsector, responsibility for transport
administration in Jamaica is with the Ministry of Public Utilities and
Transport (MPUT). The Jamaica Railway Corporation operates the public railway
system, while the Port Authority of Jamaica controls the port of Kingston and
sets port tariffs for the rest of the Jamaican ports. The Jamaica Merchant
Marine, wholly government owned, is designated as the "national" shipping line
but they have no monopoly. Government regulations require that JHMM9 rates
and service be competitive with the private sector and Government agencies are
free to use whatever shipping line they choose. The Airport Authority of
Jamaica is in charge of the country's public airports, and Air Jimaica is a
Government-owned corporation. All are under the control of the Minister of
MPUT who generally appoints the members to the Boards of Directors of the
various authorities.
2.03       The roads subsector is primarily under the control of the Ministry
of Construction (Works) [MOC(W)I. Construction and maintenance of the
island's road and street network is the responsibility of MOC(W), and the
Island Traffic Authority which regulates trucking is chaired by the Chief
Technical Director of MOC(W). Traffic engineering is also the responsibility
of MOC(W).  Public transport, however, is provided by t*.e private sector under
regulation of the Transport Authority, whose members and chairman are
appointed by the Minister u' MPUT.



2
C.   Sector Issues
2.04      The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) faces severe economic problems
including a balance of payments deficit and heavy indebtedness. Likewise
social problems partially stemming from poor health, illiteracy, and
unemployment are major issues. Various programs are being proposed to address
these issues. In varying degrees, their success will be dependent on a
viable, efficient transport system. At the present time, the public
enterprises responsible for air and rail transport are operating at a deficit,
requiring large government subsidies. Inefficient labor practices, inadequate
maintenance of infrastructure, bureaucratic rigidity, and poor investment
planning and analysis keep these entities from performing at a level needed to
adequately support economic reforms. The Jamaica Port Authority, which leases
much of Its operations to the private sector, does appear to cover its costs,
but depreciation of its assets will present a problem in the future. The
major issue facing the ports is a lack of volume. Capacity is much greater
than traffic at the present time.   The Ministry of Public Utilities ar.d
Transport recognizes these deficits and is beginning discussions with the
Bank, and others, with a view to addressing the issues in these subsectors.
2.05     The roads subsector operates under a different ministry and, in
contrast to the public sector enterprises under the aegis of MPUT, is viewed
as a public service. Unfortunately the nation's road network, representing a
multi-billion dollar asset vital to the performance of all productive sectors,
is disintegrating. Over 60% is categorized as being in poor condition as a
result of inadequate and/or ineffective maintenance practices, poor investment
planning and analysis, and a deficiency in staffing and organization.
Planning and evaluation of investments is inconsistent and made more difficult
by the multiplicity of donor agencies involved in the funding of the roads
subsector. Because of the different nature of the roads subsector from the
others, the involvement of a different ministry and the need for detailed
review of the organization and operation of MOC(W), and the impact of this
subsector on the public sector investment program as well as economic and
social activity, the GOJ requested the Bank to concentrate this project on
MOC(W) and the roads subsector. A description of the remainder of the
transport sector - rail, air, sea - is available in the project files.
D. Roads and Road Transport
2.06      Jamaica's road network is extensive, with almost 3000 miles of main
and secondary roads, 8200 miles of tertiary roads, and 900 miles of urban
roads. In addition, there are some 225 miles of roads that are maintained by
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and used mainly for its Forestry Development
Program. There are some 900 bridges in the network, a majority of which are
in need of repair; many have had to be closed and replaced with temporary
Bailey bridges. With the exception of the forestry roads, MOC(W) is
responsible for the entire network.
2.07      A high proportion of the main road network was not originally
constructed to specific engineering standards, much of it having been built
before the advent of the motorcar. There is considerable variation in the



3
standards of allgnment, construction, and drainage within comparatively short
lenq%hs. Because of these inconsistencies, many of the roads have been
mair ained on a piecemeal basis, further accentuating the uneven, fragmented
nature of the network, particularly in regard to surfacing. In the past 20
years improvements have been made to parts of the primary and secondary
network primarily as a recult of programs financed by the Bank +.d other
donors. Much of the tertiary network continues to deteriorate, ijowever, and
now due to inadequate maintenance funding and organizational problems some of
the reconstruction/resurfacing carried out ln these earlier programs is
beginning to show excessive deterioration.
2.08      Storm water drainage on the island, or lack thereof, is seriously
affecting the useful life of the road network. The original design of some of
the roads did not include drainage facilities. As land use characteristics
change and water runoff increases, the road base is washing away. In other
cases where drainage was provided many years ago, this is now inadequate and
flooding frequently occurs. Though an obvious problem, many of the earlier
externally-funded projects precluded expenditures to address major drainage
issues affecting road infrastructure.
E. Road Transport Industry
2.09     As already mentioned, all island-wide freight movement is handled by
truck with the exception of some materials related to the bauxite industry.
There is little government regulation and most trucking companies are small
with ten or fewer trucks. Government does not regulate tariffs, but does set
basic rates for government contracts. These rates are generally low and
usually result in a scarcity of trucks avallable for government work. There
is freedom of entry into the system, both legally and in actuality. The
exception to this free entry situation is in the hauling of petroleum
products. The Haulage Contractors Association was formed by truckers
originally in response to the petroleum industry arbitrarily setting rates.
Rates between the Associatio.n and industry are now negotiated, but there are
complaints that the Association restricts entry and imposes other restrictive
practices but enforces no standards for safety and reliability. In general,
about 50% of the trucks using the road system are overloaded. These are
primarily in the construction industry, although beer dlstributors tend to
carry a 15% overload. Trucks hauling petroleum, and serving the ports and
breweries are generally not overloaded.
2.10     The other main commercial activity using the road network is the
public transport system. Buses form the dominant mode for the movement of
people throughout the island. There are approximately 3,300 public transport
buses operating in Jamaica, of which about 1,200 operate in the Kingston
Metropolitan Region and 44 operate in the Montego Bay area. The rest are
considered inter-urban operatlons. All are privately owned and operated under
llcense from the Transport Authority, created under the auspices of HPUT. All
elements of the public transport system are closely regulated including
routes, frequencies, and fares. Both the public transport and trucking
industry cite the condition and traffic management of the road system as
contributing substantially to high vehicle operating costs, accidents, and
unnecessary delays.



4
F. Pri:Ina and Cost Recovery
2.11     Revenues derived from the road transport subsect-r are not directly
earmarked for use within the sector; all enter the treas:.ry to be distributed
in accordance with general budgetary practices. Revenues are sufficient,
however, to cover not only present expenditures in the sector but those
projected for a balanced and cost-effective program of maintenance,
investment, and technical assistance and training. GOJ agrees to maintain
full cost recovery in respect of the national road transport sector and will
advise the Bank of any changes of policy or actions which would adversely
affect such cost recovery, and afford the Bank an opportunity to rpview and
comment on such 'hanges. Upon the Bank's request, QOJ will provide the Bank
information, s9  -.sfactory to the Bank, indicating the level of cost recovery
in respect of the iector. ("National road transport sector" means all
activities pertaining to the movement by roads throughout GOJ's territory of
people and goods including planning, design, construction, acquisition,
operation and maintenance of all road transportation equipment, material,
facilities, infrastructure and operational systams.)  Principal revenue
sources are various duties levied on tubes and tires, vehicles and motor fuel.
Motor fuel, sold at US$2.00 per gallon, is priced at or above international
prices, and the Government agrees to maintain the wholesale prices (net of
taxes) of gasoline, diesel, lubricants, and bitumen at all times not less than
their opportunity cost. For this purpose, "opportunity cost" means the C.I.F.
(cost, insurance and freight) cost in Jamaica of the equivalent imported
product. There has been a problem in the past .'ith adulteration of gasoline
with kerosene priced below border prices. It has been estimated that about 30%
of total kerosene supply (some 147,000 barrels in 1988) ends up as an
adulterant to gasoline. This Is not only a major tax loss and subsidy drain
on the Treasury, but it causes damage to vehicle engines that results in loss
of productive time and the use of foreign exchange to purchase parts. This
issue has been addressed during discussions t.qtween GOJ and the Bank in
conjunction with the Energy Sector Managemen: Assistance Program, and the
price of bulk kerosene used for non-domestic purposes has been laised
substantially to US$1.70 per gallon in a comprehensive revision of petroleum
products pricing. Kerosene for domestic use (still sold at reduced prices but
only in small quantities and no longer available from service stations) will
be biue in color to reduce opportunities for dilution in gasoline. A
comprehensive discussion of the petroleum subsector is available in the
project files.
2.12     While road users taken together are paying in transport-related
taxes more than the Government spends on roads, the various road user charges
have not been based upon clearly stated objectives or upon a comprehensive
analysig of their impact on the transport sector. It appears, for example,
that heavy vehicles are paying less than the cost of the wear and tear they
inflict on road infrastructure. Congestion is increasing in some parts of
Kingston to the point that GOJ ought to be considering pricing as a mechanism
to influence private vehicle demand and support public transport. School
children are often left behind at bus stops because current policy requires
half-fare for children, to be subsidized by the private bus operator. The
issues of congestion pricing and the subsidy of school children are currently
being studied by MPUT, with Bank flnancing, as part of the Kingston



5
Metropolitan Region Urban Transport Project (Loan 2389); road user charges in
the trucking industry are the oubject of a study to be carried out as part of
this proposed Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance Project.
0. Investment in the Road Subsector
2.13      Road expenditures are financed from annual budget allocations from
the Ministry of Finance and from loans from international agencies. An
analysis of revenues and expenditures is included in Annex 5. In 1990
dollars, recurrent expenditures decreased from US$13.4 million to US$10.0
million between 1984 and 1988, while capital investments increased from
US$11.6 million to US$72.7 million during the same period. In 1989 the
capital expenditure was US$26 million. (1988 was an unusual situation whereby
the capital budget, which had been at about US$40 million the previous two
years, suddenly went to US$72 million. Hurricane damage the previous year and
the demands of an election campaign appear to have prompted the abnormal
funding levels.) External financing has typically funded 19% - 44% of the
capital expenditures. Numez ous donor agencies in addition to the Bank have
been active concurrently during the last four years including: IDB, CIDA, CDB,
EEC, USAID, Saudi Fund, Canada, Great Britain, and Sweden. At the present time
others are discussing funding proposals for specific projects in the sector.
2.14      While needed and appreciated, the Jamaican government has not had
the local resources to support all of these programs. Quite often, some
investments were made which were not necessarily the highest priority but were
undertaken to maintain activity in the donor's area of interest and utilize
funding with the best terms available. With little coordination among the
donor agencies and organizational problems witnln MOC(W), these numerous
programs competed for scarce human and financial resources, and often
overlapped or even had conflicting elements.
2.15      The '.)vernment has committed itself to the restoration and
maintenance of the road infrastructure system and the capital budget for
1990/91 ts approximately US$47 million.  Properly allocated, .his will provide
for a reasonable roads subsector investment program devoted primarily to
maintenance, rehabilitation, and traffic management. A ptimary objective of
this Project is the development of a multi-year investment program,
prioritization of investments, and establishment of mechanisms to rationalize
and coordinate external funding. Government has agreed that this multi-year
investment program will form the basis for its Public Sector Investment
Program in the roads subsector, that GOJ will advise the Bank of any additions
or modifications to the Program as they may occur during the fiscal year, and
that the Government will conduct an annual review of the updated Program with
the Bank. This annual review will include not only the adequacy of evaluation
and the relative priority of new in.estments, but the balance among new
construction rehabilitation, and maintenance, and the continuance of
appropriate pricing and cost-recovery within the sector. In addition, GOJ
will advise the Bank of any surface transport investment exceeding US$5.0
million during the project implementation period, provide 'nformation on the
impact of such investment on the Bank project and give the Bank adequate
opportunity to comment on such investment prior to its commencement.



6
H. Road Subsector Issues
2.16     The primary issue in the road subsector is Institutional.  During
the past five years, the portfolio of MOC(W) has increased tremendously. In
1984 they were essentially responsible for 2,900 miles of primary and
secondary roads. In 1985 all parish council roads were transferred to the
Ministry (about 8,000 miles), as well as the 900 miles of urban roads in the
Kingston and St. Andrew Metropolitan Area. Economic austerity measures during
this time precluded the transfer of funds sufficient to meet these new
demands, which had been aggravated by inadequate funding during the late 1970s
and early 19809. Low salary levels made hiring and retention of qualified
staff difficult and, at any give, time, approximately 40% of the Ministry's
professional positions were, and still are, vacant. Some donor agencies, in
an attempt to assure proper execution cf their project, insisted on the
creation of project units, often completely separate from the line agency
normally responsible for that type of program. For example, until recently,
there were six road and bridge maintenance programs being carried out
simultaneously: five under the direction of four different directorates and
one program reporting directly to the Permanent Secretary. There has been no
systematic evaluation of investments to establish priorities except within
donor programs and, essentially, priorities are established more according to
each donor't. perception of the needs than on economic and technical evaluation
against all proposed sectoral investments. Scarce counterpart funding was
spread across as many programs as possible, with the result that there has
been no consistent, comprehensive approach to management of the island's road
network.
2.17     Recognizing this problem, GOJ requested the Bank to assist in
developing a five-year road sector investment program which prioritized all
maintenance and investment activities proposed in the sector according to a
technical, economic, and social evaluation. Government officials have met
with the various donor agencies and agreed on how the evaluated projects would
be financed, in what priority, and in what approximate time frame according to
total available funds. The result is the Five-Year Investment Program, shown
in Annex 1. Annex 1 also includes a brief description of the various
externally financed projects.
2.18      In conjunction with the Administrative Reform Program,  the
Government has substantially increased the salaries of senior level staff in
MOC(W). This should enable them to keep experienced project directors as well
as attract junior engineers and technicians. The Ministry has agreed to, and
begun the process of reorganization, which will provide for planning and
budgeting, and direct functional responsibility and accountability (para.
3.06).
2.19     Avallability and quality of MOC(W) staff is another issue affecting
efficiency in the sector. In addition to a sheer deficiency in nu-bers of
technical personnel essential to implement the program, there is a serious
lack of qualified middle management in the Ministry. Within the last three
years, the Permanent Secretary, Chief Technical Director, Director of
Maintenance, Director of Construction, Highway Planning Engineer, and several
superintendents have retired or left the Ministry. Except for the Highway



7
Planning Engineer, these have been replaced, quite competently, from within.
With a few exceptions, however, this shuffling of personnel has left serious
voids ln key senior positions below the Director level. As stated above,
salary reform should improve recrultment of technicians and junior engineers
in the future, and hopefully retain the existing staff to the degree possible.
The Ministry, meanwhile, is also instituting other initiatives to offset the
staffing issue, lncludlng: (i) identifylng and contracting out all activities
which can be done by consultants (privatizatLon is not an issue in Jamaica in
thls sector; the majority of construction and maintenance is done by contract,
but the Minlstry wants to lncrease contracted labor in other areas such as
design, drafting, and supervision); (iL) developing and implementing short and
long-term tralning at all levels within the MLnistry; (ili) improving
efficiency through employment of appropriate technology; and (iv) employment
of technical assistance on a long-term basls (2 - 4 years) to assist with
development and implementation of programs durlng the period of transitlon
(para. 3.07).
2.20     Another major iesue is the lack of financial resources to
rehabilitate the sector infrastructure to brlng it back to a condition whereby
lt can be maintained effectively. The needs are such, particularly in the
areas of drainage, that this will be a long process. This proposed project is
a step in this process, developing the organizational and human resources
necessary to plan and implement highest priority investments within available
resources. Minimum investment needs of approximately US$302 million over the
next five years have been identified, evaluated, and prioritlzed. Commltted
financlal resources, both local and external, have been identlfled for
approxlmately 70% of these needs and financing gaps, primarily for projects in
t'he third through fifth year, have been noted. These gaps, totalling
approximately US$91 milllon, could be partially or completely covered through
additional external funding, as some donors are currently showing interest in
further participation in the program. Any continued shortfall would result in
the postponement of lower-priority projects to a later year, inasmuch as this
is a rolling 5-year program.   A review in Annex 5 of past financial
allocations indicates not only a serious lack of funding but gross
inconsistencies in allocations from year to year. A viable program cannot be
carried out without some commitment to at least a minimum level of funding on
a rolling multi-year basis. In the development of their five-year maintenance
and investment program, goJ has identified a basic program of routine and
periodic maintenance (approximately US$20 million annually), to be funded from
counterpart funds which will form the core of the budget. GOJ has agreed to
maintain as a minimum, in 1990 dollars, at least this level of core funding
dedicated to maintenance.
2.21     Road Safety is also an issue which is beginning to have serious
effects on both the economy of the country and the quality of life of its
citizens. with an average of over one traffic fatality every day, Jamaica's
fatality rate (deaths per 10,000 vehicles ) is six-to-ten times that of the
United States and European countries, and is increasing.   The cost to society
is conservatively estimated at over US$31 million per year. Repalrs and
replacements require foreign currency that could be used for other urgent
economic investments. Moreover it often takes months to repair or replace a
damaged vehicle, which means a loss in transport capacity. Medical resources



8
needed for care and extensive rehabilitation of the injured could be devoted
to the care and prevention of diseases. To address this issue, the proposed
project includes the development of a Road Safety Program. During project
preparation the Government, with assistance from a consultant from the Swedish
Traffic Safety Group, analyzed the traffic safety problem, and prepared
recommendations including terms of reference for development of a
comprehensive program to approach thie problem from an educational,
engineering, enforcement, and institutional etandpoint. A brief description
of this component as well as the schedule of other studies and technical
assistance to be carried out as part of this project is included in Annex 2.
The Road Safety Study Report, including terms of reference, is available in
the Project Files.
I. Government Strategy and Rationale for Bank's Involvement
2.22     As part of its continuing economic reform measures, GOJ recognizes
the need to improve resource allocation through its Public Sector Investment
Program (PSIP). The PSIP is targeted at: (i) promoting export earning sectors
through investments In economic infrastructure such as airports, water and
sewerage, power, roads, and communications to support the recent economic
recovery and large expansion in tourism; and (ii) rehabilitating the social
infrastructure, particularly in health and education. The Government has
identified the roads subsector as a priority sector not only because of its
importance in achieving these objectives, but because of its fiscal impact.
Investments in this sector, managed by the Ministry of Construction (Works),
comprise almost 50% of central government expenditure in the PSIP, and GOJ
--ecognizes the need to improve the efficiency of the expenditure process
through improved economic analysis, implementation, and monitoring. The
Bank's country assistance etrategy is in full agreement with the Government's
priority in the roads subsector. At the present time, implementation of the
PSIP is constrained by inadequate project evaluation and selection, and lack
of proper management and implementation at the ministerial level. A severe
shortage of competent staff further aggravates the issue. The Bank's
experience in the sector (para. 2.22), and that of other donors, indicates an
inability of MOC(W) to manage efficiently a cost-effective public works
investment program. The Bank's credibility with GOJ and external lending
agencies presents a unique opportunity for the Bank to take the lead, through
this project, to assist GOJ to reorganize MOC(W) and develop the institutional
mechanisms necessary to manlage the program, including prioritization and
coordination of external funding. This objective is consistent with the
thrust of the Bank's overall lending strategy for Jamaica and with the
specific objectives of Bank assistance in the sector.
2.23     Going back to 1965, the Bank has been involved in six projects in
the roads subsector in Jamaica. The First Highway Project (Loan 408-JM,
US$5.5 million, April 1965) was for detailed engineering and construction of
main arterial roads. The Second Highway Project (Loan 899-JM, US$9.3 million,
May 1973) was for road maintenance. The Third Highway Project (Loan 1032-JM,
US$13.5 million, June 1974) was for construction of about 20 miles of arterial
roads. The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1740-JH, US$16.0 million, June 1979)
provided support for the Five-Year Road Maintenance Program 1979 - 1984. The



9
Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2293-JM, US$15.0 million, January 1984) was
the fifth project, and the Kingston Metropolitan Region Urban Transport
Project (KMR-UTP) (Loan 2389-JM, US$16.0 million, September 1984) was the most
recent. The Highway Maintenance Project was completed on June 30, 1989 after
two one-year extensions, and the KNR-UTP is on-going.
2.24      All of the projects experienced delays based on their schedules at
appraisal, but they fall within the regional and sector profiles.
Institutional issues were major problems in the first two projects including
under-estimation of project costs, poor supervision, and unsatisfactory
preparatory activities. Labor disputes also contributed to neither project
fully achieving its physical objectives. The Third and Fourth projects showed
improvement in Ministry technical activities, but inadequate counterpart
funding and contractor failure caused long delays. Although specific physical
objectives of the project were only partially achieved, substantial amounts of
unscheduled rehabilitation and resealing works were done which offset these
particular project components. While never fully achieving all projected
physical targets in these projects, it appears there was a continuous
increase in the Ministry's technical capability.
2.25      The Highway Maintenance Project suffered from a lack of counterpart
funding and competition with other externally-funded projects and, though
completed in five years, it was still two years later than anticipated at
appraisal. The significant objective not achieved was improvement in the
acquisition of spare parts and maintenance of equipment. This issue has been
addressed in the preparation of the present project. The KMR-UTP is underway
but behind in achievement of its physical targets due to a lack of counterpart
funding. As in the case of the Highway Maintenance Project, these delays point
to the need for better coordination among all the different externally-funded
projects. Several elements of the KMR-UTP were simply not as important as
components of other projects and have had to be deferred for lack of
sufficient funding. on the other hand, however, less important but more
favorably-financed projects have been included ahead of highly cost-effective
KMR-UTP components such as intersection reconstruction. In general, past
projects have improved the technical capability of MOC(W) to execute
maintenance and rehabilitation works, and the KMR-UTP has positively
strengthened its traffic engineering capability. However, the overall
institutional ability to manage works - evaluation, planning, budgeting,
control, supervision, and coordination - is still insufficient to carry out a
cost-effective public works program, especially in times of severe budget
constraints and the interests of numerous external agencies. The proposed
project builds on the technical expertise developed in the past and
concentrates on developing the institutionial organization and ability to
manage a multi-year public sector Investment program.
Il.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.01      The proposed project was identified in July, 1988, to address issues
adversely affecting the management of investment in the road subsector in



10
Jamaica and the consequent social and econo>i)c impact on the country. The
project was appraised April 9-20, 1990. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. October 9-12, 1990. The Government delegation was led by Mrs. Gloria
Gray from the Ministry of Finance.
B.* Project Objectives
0
3.02     The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Construction (Works) to plan,
manage, and maintain the road transport infrastructure in jamaica in a cost-
effective marnner; (b) improve the cost-effecti-eness of the Borrower's
investmente in its road transport sector; and (c) improve road safety.
C. Project Description
3.03     The proposed Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance Project is
part of a US$302 million Five-Year Investment Program designed to upgrade, and
bring back to a condition of maintainability, the nation's road
infrastructure, including rural and urban roads, bridges, drainage facilities,
and traffic signs, signals, and markings. The words "Program", "Project" and
'Five Year Investment Program' will be used throughout this report to
describe, respectively: (i) the Ministry's total five-year Investment pl&n,
which includes financing from the Bank and many other sources (Program), and
(ii) those elements of the Program being financed by the Bank (Project). The
Five Year Investment Program is a rolling five-year plan; it will be re-
evaluated annually, and components scheduled according to priority and
availability of funds. The proposed Project would provide overall supervision
df the annual investment evaluation, prioritization, and implementation
process, coordinate technical assistance, facilitate the coordination of the
various externally-funded projects in MOc(W), and finance those priority
activities for which there is no alternative funding. Specific components to
be financed by the Project are the followings
a.  Institutional.  (6% of project costs)  Reorganization of MOC(W),
development of mechanisms tv coor%.Inate the implementation of
externally funded projects within MOC, technical assistance to
assist with development, management and implementation of the five-
year investment program during a transition period during which
staff are being trained or hired, training of staff, studies, and
equipment to facilitate subsector management. This component is
more fully described in Annex 2.
b.  Infrastructure Improvements. (90% of project costs) Design,
construction, and supervision of selected works included in the
rolling five-year investment Program. These works are identified in
the Five Year Investment Program provided in Annex 1 as those to be
financed by IBRD under this Loan and in the amounts therein
specified, and include reconstruction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads, bridges, and drainage facilities, geometric
improvements, traffic and safety improvements, and equipment to
facilitate the implementation and effectiveness of these works. The
specified investment amounts of Annex 1 may vary depending on



2
available qualified personnel, and focus on this important
activity.
d) Concentration of all maintenance activities (except bridge
maintenance) within the Directorate of Maintenance
regardless of funding source. Bridge maintenance would be
a function of the Bridges and Civil Works Branch within
the Directorate of Highways.
e) Though individual capital projects may be executed from separate
project units for budgetary purposes, they would operate within, and
report for administrative purposes to, the appropriate line
directorate. The Directorate of Technical Services, which is often
involved in assignments overlapping the duties of other
directorates, will be eliminated and staff reassigned to the
appropriate directorates.
f) The Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Systems would
be eliminated. Maintenance of building-related electrical
and mechat .cal equipment would be transferred to the
Directorate of Buildings. The management of
construction/maintenance vehicles and equipment would
become the responsiblility of the Directorate of Equipment
Management under an equipment management system developed
during preparation of this project.
Technical Assistance
3.   Over the years, low salaries and the perceived lack of opportunity have
caused an erosion of qualified technical and managerial personnel within the
Ministry. This has created a shortage of personnel which has been further
aggravated by the retirement within the past three years of the Ministry's
five most senior personnel. These top posts were adequately filled with
personnel from within but this has further exacerbated the shortage of
qualified technicians charged with planning and executing the Ministry's
programs. Recognizing this, several of the externally-funded programs have
included technical assistance, but this was typically restricted to the
funding agency's program, leaving gaps and inconsistencies in the remainder of
MOC(W)'s work.  Recently, however, GOJ has restructured substantially the
salary scale for technical personnel and, with the reorganization of MOC(W),
it appears it will be easier to attract and hold technical personnel. The
Ministry is shifting much of its design and supervision work from in-house to
contract, and therefore hopes to be able to operate more efficiently with
fewer people. It will take several years to make this transition, however,
and, on an interim basis, MOC(W) anticipates the need for substantial
technical assistance to help administer the Five-Year Investment Program as
well as train counterpart staff to take over the functions.
4.    At the present time the Bank is financing traffic engineering technical
ass.:t'nce which is scheduled to continue for another year.  This assistance
is not limited to the Bank's financed investments but is provided as
counterpart to assist and train Jamaican staff in development and



3
implementation of traffic management activities. An experienced expatriot
traffic engineer works on a day-to-day basis with a trained but inexperienced
Jamaican traffic engineer; various specialists i.e. traffic signalization are
brought in as needed.   This same approach is being adopted for implementation
of the Five-Year Infrastructure Investment Program and has been agreed to by
all participating financing agencies. For example, CIDA has included several
staff-years of technical assistance in bridge design and maintenance as part
of their Jamaica/Canada Bridge Development Program. This staff will not be
limited to working only on those bridges identified as part of the CIDA-
financed project. Their terms of reference now include whatever assistance is
needed to help the Ministry's Bridge and Civil Works Branch develop and
implement a cost-effective bridge evaluation, design, and maintenance program.
The same is true for the road design and maintenance engineers, and
construction supervision personnel currently being financed by IDB and EEC.
In addition, the proposed Bank-financed Infrastructure Planning and
Maintenance Project, will finance several additional specialists to assist
with Program development and train counterpart staff to assume full
responsibility for evaluation, planning, implementation, and monitoring.
Attachment 2 indicates the technical assistance committed to the Program.
Approximate cost figures are provided for the technical assistance
($1,772,000) financed as part of the Project. Technical assistance being
provided through other externally-funded projects, and which comprise an
integral part of the overall five-year investment program, are shown for
reference.
Training
5.    Extensive training of existing and newly hired MOC(W) personnel is the
third element of the institutional strengthening activities included as part
of this project. The training will complement the reorganization of the
Ministry and is an integral part of the technical assistance. The objective
of this training is tot
a) strengthen the performance capabilities of MOC(W)
personnel in the areas of (i) public sector infrastructure
investment evaluation, planning, execution, and
monitoring; (ii) administration of public sector
investment programs: (iii) planning and administration of
infrastructure maintenance. and
b) strengthen the training unit within MOC(W) to plan
organize, coordinate, implement, and evaluate relevant
training programs-
6.    The training program would comprise four basic parts: (i) a series of
training courses in Jamaica for MOC(W) staff, contractors, and consultants to
bring their level of expertise up to the standard required to fulfill their
various functions; (ii) on-the-job training provided by the technical
assistance outlined in Attachment 2; (iii) study tours abroad for senior level
officials in public administration, infrastructure planning, construction, and
maintenance, traffic management and road safety, and project management; and
(iv) training through technical assistance for the training unit of MOC(W).



4
7.    MOC(W) has a training unit and regularly presents training courses,
primarily to administrative support personnel. Throughout this proposed
training program, emphasis will be placed on widening the scope, and improving
the quality, of the Ministry's own training activities. During project
preparation, the training unit, with the collaboration of divisional
management and consultant assistance, prepared preliminary estimates of
MOC(W)'s current and projected training needs, based on the reorganized
structure. It was determined that MOC1W), over the next five years, will need
to provide training to approximately 8900 participants (the actual number of
people is less; some trainees will participate in more than one course.)
Attachment 3 provides an outline of the types of courses and participants by
category anticipated for each course. This program will be finalized during
the first three months of the project by the Training Unit with the help of
the training consultant and other technical assistance assigned to the
specific directorates.
8.    A large number of these participants (7000) will be private individuals
contracted to work in the parishes maintaining segments of rural roads.
Called the "lengthman" program, this was the subject of a pilot exercise
financed by USAID during the past year. A private individual is contracted to
carry out routine maintenance (grass cutting, cleaning of drainage channels,
filling of holes,) along short segements of rural roads, usually 2 to 5
kilometers in length. He would be periodically supervised by HOC(W) field
personnel. Preliminary results indicate the program can be successful and
very cost-effective if proper training is given to the lengthmen and the
supervisors.
9.    As stated in paragraph 7, a key element in this training program is
improvement in MOC(W)'s in-house capability to provide efficient training
activities. During the first two years of the project, technical assistance
will be provided to assist the training unit to improve its skills in
identifying, organizing and evaluating skills development programs.
Additional staff have been assigned to the Unit, and these "trainers" will be
trained by the full time consultant technical assistance, as well as through
specifically designated training programs. As an example, the International
Road Federation (IRF), funded through the Project, will play a major role in.
training Ministry personnel, contractors, and consultants in road planning,
design, inspection, and maintenance, as well as routine equipment maintenance.
In addition to providing this direct training to sector personnel, however,
they will provide 45 video taped training modules for future use. Their
contract will include training MOC(w) trainers in the use of these materials
and conduct of the courses so that it can be an on-going activity in the
Ministry's training program. Attachment 4 identifies each of these training
modules.
10.   Overseas courses and study tours would be included in the project for
senior professional and management staff (twelve staff have been identified
for participation in this part of the program). Tentative schedules include:
a) Fourth International Conference on Road Management,
sponsored by the International Road Federation; November 4
-18, 1990; Phoenix, Arizona, U.S.A. Participants (3):



5
Director of Maintenance; Chief Maintenance Engineer
(Urban); Construction Engineer.
b) Public Sector Administration, Royal Institute of Public
Administration; dates to be selected; London, England.
Participants (1): Permanent Secretary.
c) Traffic Management and Road Safety, cities to be identified during
road safety study. Participants (3): Chief Inspector
(Police); Chief Traffic Engineer; Director of Highways.
d) Proiect Management; this will involve sending ten
engineering technicians/engineers overseas for short
courses in civil works project management. The details
and exact locations will be defined by the training unit
once the technical assistance for the training unit and
other directorates have begun work.
11.   Estimated costs for the five-year training component are as follows:
Preparation and Presentation of Courses            $375,000
Per Diem/Transportation for Participants/Instr.  $292,000
Teaching Equipment and Supplies                    $ 50,000
Overseas Study                                     $120,000
Planning and Evaluation                            $ 40,000
Total     $877,000
Studies
12.   Three studies are included in Project funding:
a) Road User Cost Allocation Study. This study will examine
the cost responsibility for the transport system of the
various user groups and compare those costs with the
amount of taxes and user fees paid by those same groups.
The study shall present a base year (actual expenditure)
analysis and an analysis based on projected road
expenditures and revenues. Based on analysis, the report
shall contain recommendations for changes in road
financing taxes and user fee structure which would make
payments of the various vehicle classes or user groups
more representative of their respective responsibilities
or, more compatible with Governmental economic/social
policy.
b) TSMlRoad Safety. This study, based on the preliminary
investigations carried out during project preparation,
will develop a comprehensive programme of countermeasures
to improve road safety on the Island. It will include
recommendations for organization, training, legislation,
enforcement, education, and engineering measures to reduce
the traffic accident and fatality rate in Jamaica.



6
c) Flood Water Control.  This study involves a comphrehensive
study and recommendations for flood water management in
flood-prone areas. The work will consist of upgrading
existing information, supplementing as necessary with new
investigations. The study will produce specific
recommendations regarding development criteria, policy,
and physical investment necessary to mitigate the economic
and personal losses as a result of flooding in the area.
13.
Basic data regarding the scheduling, level of effort, and costs of these
studies is as follows:
STUDIES
Tayrgt Oates for Program laplmentation
Review  Submit                 Est.
with   Action   Staff- Months    Costs   Financing
Activity     Begin Complete  I8RD    Plan    Loc.   For.    USS   Agency  Project
Studies
Road User Cost    12/92    9/93    12/93    2/94   6o            200000  1USD   IPUP
TSM/Road Safety   12/91   12/92    3/98    6/93   1S      1S    390000 IBRD/CTF  IPMP
Flood Water Control  8/92    8/98    6/98    a/98   6o    1S    460000  1USD   IPMP
TOTAL                                                           1,040,000



PROPOSED REORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
HOC(W)
*t;trt of1                                                                         Piottt |ietwt otr                               Gietzt rtetrt Dt. |ofne_ 
otman                    P r_lte                                           of |ilwy oliswi rtagu                           of Bultng C.t.D    |taie
Of flroan", lco
I                                                                          ,      I   _                    I                      ,1                _        I.
.~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ioa -  itg. -
0owes-uctoen Coast. S Htde
1.14      lead"t afety   1.3.-5.n
T.9.1.       "attic Onsimtrtie Stench
Pi.f.8.8.    basggt m.t ntfose_tton Sat. Section                                 R.                       S. S         tety
D.A.          Dtretorate of Aministrattion                                                          't:A.      Inlad trI fttle Authorty
D.D.         (Deputy Director)
D.P.          DSrectote ef PItUInoe                                                               P.t.D-         laut ng tnatieatise  DWA      gin
D.P.         hirectorate of P.r_oui                                                               3.3 C.V.W.  Dridg   and Civil latingering Vorks
D.P.         Directorrtt of Pisltg                                                                1.5 t.5.     ttef   end Road Saety
D.ll.         Direotorat  et nitwaa
D.t.lt.     tirectorate of g4eut4 t 11-a4get
0.D.        Diroctorrt. of BuildLngs
.n0df.      DirerStota  ot HaintWIiuO
C...        Cbiet Technical Director
P.p.C.       Projets Flaming unit
P.C., N.V.   Project. coetol sb Monitoring UnIt
P.4.0.       Fleming Adtmistrative Dntt
ft 
go
(0



Annex 2
Attachment 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Target Dates for Program Tplmentgtion
Revie7 wSat.
with              Staff- Months     Co.t.       Finaneing
Activity        Begin  Complete   IBRO              Le.      For.       US9    Agency   Project
Road Design Engineer  1/91     12/94                                 42              TDB/GQJ RRIP Ii
Construction Engr.    1/91     12/94                                 42              108/00.1 RRIP II
Engr. Supervision     9/90     12/94                        100                         0OJ    RRIP It
Engr. Specialists     1/91     12/94                                 12              IDB/COJ RRIP It
Project Engineer      4/90     3/91                         12                         EEC     RRBHP
Project Director      1/91     12/98                                 as      21zOo  IBRO/o W   IPMP
Mgmt. Systems Spec.  4/91      10/91                                  a       72000 IBRD/cOi   TPU
Transport Economist   1/91     6/93                                  24      26t0K0 IWR0/0QJ   JPMP
Hghwy. Planner/Engr.  1/91     6/93                                  24      288000 TBRO/00J   IPMP
Project Engineers     2/91     12/98                        48       12      194000 8RD/00.1  IP-P
Bridge Constr. Engr.  7/90     12/98                                 18               CIDA    J/C90P
Bridge Struc. Engr.   7/90     12/93                                 t6               CIDA    J/CBDP
Soils Engineer        7/90     12/93                                  9               CIDA    J/CDBP
Hydraulics Engineor   7/90     12/98                                 24               CIDA    J/CDBP
Bridge Maint. Engr.  7/90      12/93                                 12               CIDA    J/CDBP
Equip. Mgmt. Spec.    2/91     3/92                         12       12      204000 IBROIO/Q   TPMP
Training Specialist   1/91     6/93                         24       12      264000 1IRO/0OJ   IPUP
Environ. Specialist   8/91     2/92                                  12      144000 1860/00.1  IPMP
Institutional Spec.   2/91     8/92                         24               10*000 TBRD/GOJ    IPHP
TOTAL                                                                     * 1772000
1J Review periodically as needed. After lst qusrter and at maid-tenm as a
!LeXi
Key:
IPMP      =  IBRD's Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance Project
JICBDP  =  CIDA's Jamaica/Canada Bridge Development Program
RRBHP    =  EEC's Rural Roads and Bridges Rehabilitation Program
RRIP II =  IDB's Second Rural Road Improvement Program



tAnnex 2
Attachment 3
CATEOORY AND NUER OF PMOst8L TO  it TRAItNO BY CWORSE TYE
COWO    ' 'IRI    OF PART1CIPANTS
1        2        3        4        S        0        7        8                 t o*    TOTAL
arsanent S-cta rieoI                                a        a            a        a   a         0        a                  1        2
>1trctors                                 to        o        o        o        0        0        a        0                 1 0o    20
Architect*                                0         0        0        6       10        O        a        0        6        a        la
1kroject, ma"ago}t                         4        4        4        6        0        4                                   12       32
Efnoifteare                               20      5O        20       20               106        a                 0        7      *2S
EconomistS                                 a        a        a        a                 a        a e  0  o
technians                                  0      ISO       20       tO       30        a        0        a        0        20      2se
Construction P*'sonnel                    20        0      314        a        0        a        a        a        0        40      374
laint. Supervisort (In Kingston)           O        O                 2                          a0                                   2
Iaint. Supervisors (In parishes)           o        0                 4                                                              4 0 
Langthen (in Kingston)                     O        0        0        0        0        O        0        0        6         6       0
Longthen (in parishe")                     o        0        0     7000        0                 0        6                 e 6    7000
Adainistrators                            10        0        0        0        0        0        a       40        9        20      To
Accountaots                                                  0        a        0        O       So        a        O        12      d8
Int.rn*l Auditors                          0        6                 0        a        a        1        0        a        1        2
System Anelysts                                     a                 6        9       2        1 0                a O      0       3
Uotaptoc- %ors                                        *        O              a    20          to        O        O        O       3e
secretaries t *I"*                                                   o        o        o        e        o                 0      ISo
Clerical                                   o        o        o        o        o        o        a        e      3CO        O       SO
Recpt'sOft I                                        o                 o        o        o                          2        0        2
Phone Operators                                         0         0                 0           0        a         5       0        5
OfficeAttendants                           0                                            0                a        0        0 
)riser/Nach. Oreratorm                     O        O        O        e        0        0        a        a         0       0        o
Consultants                               20       2         a 0      0       20       20        a         6        6      20      lee
Contractors                                0        0       49       10       26       20        0         0        0      20      t10
tOTAL TRAINEES BY CWONENT                 es      227     31       7066      120      165       73       44       607     234     6919
COWPONENt 1.10ENO
Techniquos for Organ. Effectivelnss                            7 FINANCE
Essentials of Managemnt                                          Bailc AccountAng t
sup orvtsry llgnegnt                                            Bs-ic Accounting tr
Project Nonagomnt                                                 Adunced Accounting I
Equipment Usnagaont                                              Advanced Accounting It
Per-formasce Budgeting
2 ROAO PLANNI  ANO  DES14N                                         Budget Prc-ration and Administration
Traffic Survey*
Road Inventory/Condition Survey                                 8 ADMINISTRATION
Road Plan a OtSeig  tal drain    Env.                             Public Sector AdministrotIon
Soil a material evaluation                                        PIn-srial Rang~t
Pavement Design                                                   tdvra   eain
Rood Msintenance                                                  Training of Training Officers
Economic Evoluatton                                               Basic Administrative Stills
sevluottson/Rokitng of ProJ                                       ? Peormane  onegsnt * Evaluation
Counter SkIilla
3 ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Contractor Prequollfication                                     9 CLIfACAL
Bidding and Awad                                                  Office Methods atd Slkhills
Road Construction                                                 Induction snd Orientation
Construction Supervson                                            Registry
CronstrctCiaon t SuperIIonPeroon-nl Procedurs
4 ROAD  ii14*ENAINCE                                                Superannuastion
Routine Maintenance
Periodic Maintenance                                           10 CowtIETARY WUIECTS
Reobabiitstion/Reconstruction                                     Tniraf   Isl tMnct
Equipment Mel ntenenco                                            Road Sf ety
6 lRtOCE 0StCli, CONSTRUCTION AME MAINTEN"CE                        Effective Writing (All Components)
Design                                                            International Training Courses
Construction                                                      Seminars,
HydrauIics                                                       Others to be Developed mas Nemede
Ceotechnical
Bridge tnnvntory/Condition Suve"y
Mlintenance
6 COWUTER tCQOLOOY
Application Progress
Operating Systems
Programing Longuago
Computer Hardware



Anext 2
Attacbment 4
IRF VIDEOTAPE TRAINING MODULES
45 MOOULES
So"e 01-oad Manrtn: 181
1. Common Mainte   Problem  and Cw~
2 TrnloWo Control Owing Mantenac
a  Pothole Repar In Asphaft Concrete Paentd
4. Pothole Repair in Surface Treahuent PVeMen
. CrAc Repair In Asphalt Pavement
6. Repair of DepressIons, RuUlng nd ComAgates
7. Bas and Subas Repair
. Single and Muliple Surface Treslet_
9. Slumn Seal
10. Patching Unpaved Roads
11. Smoofing and Rashaping of Ear nd Gravel Reeds
12. Regraveling
13. Reshaping Earth and Gravel Shoulder
14. Replenishing Earth and Gavel Shoules
15. Mechanical Cleaning of Unlined Ditce
16. Cleaning of Uned Ditches. Cuwt ond Catch Badns
17. Cleaning and Clearing of Bridges
1A. C;onrete Bridge Deck Repir
S. fis 02-EcuiDment Maintensne/lOoeratln: 18  _odle
1. Operator Daily Maintenance of Motofgrades
2. Motorgrader Operation, Pai I
3. Motorgrader Operaton  Pa*t 2
4. Articulated Motorgrader Opratin
S. Operaor Daily Mainenanc of FroEdW Loade
6. FrontmEnd Loader Operation. Pt 1
7. Fron-End Loader Operaton, Pet 2
8. Optor Daily Maintnance of CraeNr Tneate
9. Crfwler Tractor Opeton. Pat t
-0 Crawer Tractor Operaion Pait 2
11. Operator Daily Maintnano of RolUr
12 Ropler Operation. Part 1
13. Roler Operation, Pat 2
14. Operator Daily Mainteranes of Asphalt Dlutra_
S. Asphlt DbtriWor Opeaon
16. Opetor Daiy Maidntae of Ownp trucks
17. Dump Truck Operaton
IS. Driver Dail Mainteance of Uigh Vehicle
Sere oS-Cenetuote  Ineoe s  S M up   odu.
1. Asphalt Conet Plat ibnpec
L Asphalt Conrt Paing bopeo
. Field Sampling an Testing for  ibA    Conatu
4. ChIp Seal. Pfrm. Plush an Tack Coat inspedm
&  inpectg Pavemen Reccig
S. Coneret Paving npdcon
7. Major Stctures Ipeetion
. Incdenal Concrete Suctns inpecdon
5 Feld Sanpling and Tesing for Conetb Co _tucio
I



ANNEX 3
JAMAICA
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION (WORKS)
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROJECT IMLEMEATION SCHEDULE
FINANCIAL YEAR
I 990/91    1991/92      1992/93     1993/94      1994/95
X j2411211  21112  112
A.  CONSTRUCTION AND UPGRADIkG                    I           I     I            I
Washington Boulevard                                            I        _               I            i
Lances Bay Bridge Approaches
Agualta Vale - Dover                         j       _      _
Kingston - Morant Bay                                                              I l-
Carey Park - F lmouth                                                                           I 
Land Acquisition
Feasibility Studies                                   - l                                       I     I
S. REHABILITATION                                            -    -                       -     -  I-1
C.  PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                   I                        |
New Periodic Programme                              I               -  -             -I          -I
ICRD Kingston Resurfacing                       -     -                      I
0. ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
Road and Bridge Mainten4ece- I-
E.  FLOOD WATER CONTROL
Send Gully A Tributar es 
Flood Studies A Mapping                      j        _                                               I
F.  TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT A ROAD SAFETY                - -                      -            j               --
G.  INSTITUTIONAL TRAINtNG. TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE A EQUIPMENT
M. PLANT A EQUIPMENT MANAGEMfENT                              j            I                  I     I 
Equipment A Tech. Aust.                I        -    -i1-             i            I                  i



Annex 4
Table 1
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COST
(USS Nillions)
Local       Foreign             2        % of
Sub-Proiects       Currency    Exchange  Total  Foreign Base Cost
A Construction       2.53         2.02    4.55      44.42   li.O%
& Upgrading
B Rehabilitation    0.00          0.00    0.00       0.02    0.0%
C Periodic           8.67         6.42   15.10      42.5%   36.5%
Maintenance
D Routine           13.92         0.82   14.74       5.6%   35.7%
Maintenace
E Flood Water        1.03         0.49    1.52      32.12    3.7%
Control
F Traffic Mgmt. &   0.85          1.95    2.79      69.7%    6.32
Road Safety
G Institutional      0.11         2.29    2.40      95.22    5.8%
Training, TIA
and Equipment
H Plant and Equip.  0.00          0.22    0.22      100.02   0.52
Management
Total Base Cost    27.12         14.20   41.31      34.42  100.0%
Physical Conting.   2.61           1.12    3.73     30.02    9.0%
Price Contingencies 3.48          1.80    5.28      34.12   12.32
TOTAL               33.21        17.12   50.32      34.02  121.8%



Annex 4
Table 2
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
COST TABLE BY CATEGORY
(US$ Millions)
Tech.Asst.
Civil                Design &  Training & Land
Sub-Proiects       Works    Eouiment  Suirvan.   Studies    Acauis.  Total
A Construction &     2.93       0.00       0.78       0.84       0.00     4.55
Upgrading
B Rehabilitation     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00
C Periodic          13.91       0.00       1.18       0.00       0.00    15.10
Maintenance
D Routine           13.90       0.00       0.83       0.00       0.00    14.74
Maintenance
E Flood Water        0.95       0.00       0.12       0.45       0.00     1.52
Control
F Traffic Mgmt. &    2.25       0.00       0.15       0.39       0.00     2.79
Road Safety
G Institutional      0.00       0.57       0.00       1.83       0.00     2.40
Training, TIA
and Equipment
B Plant and          0.00       0.00       0.00       0.22       0.00     0.22
Equipment Mgmt.
Total Base Cost     33.95       0.57       3.07       3.72       0.00    41.31
Physical Contin.     3.42       0.00       0.31       0.00       0.00     3.73
Price Contingencies  4.38       0.07       0.40       0.44       0.00     5.28
TOTAL               41.75       0.64       3.78       4.16       0.00    50.32



Annex 4
TabLe 3
RDOD INFRASTRUCTPU PLANNING AND MAlZAJNCE PROJECT
TOTAL CO:TS BY SEMESTER
(US$ millions)
Category \ Year               1990191   1991192   1992)93   1993194   1994195      Total    Local   Foreign
1    2    1    2    1    2    1    2    1    2
Design                        0.14 0.13 0.33 0.26 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.09 0.08      1.02      0.92     0.10
Expropriation                 0.00                                                   0.00
Civil Works                   2.94 2.90 3.15 3.13 4.14 4.01 3.69 3.54 3.31 3.14    33.95    23.04    10.90
Supervision                  0.18 0.18 0.19 0.19 0.25 0.24 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.19       2.05      1.74     0.32
Subtotal          3.25 3.20 3.67 3.58 4.38 4.25 3.91 3.76 3.60 3.41    37.02    25.70    11.32
Equipment                     0.00 0.00 0.29 0.29 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00      0.57      0.11     0.46
Tech. Assistance              0.26 0.29 0.17 0.15 0.45 0.44 0.02                     1.80      0.18     1.62
Studies                       0.14 0.13 0.18 0.17 0.19 0.19 0.18 0.18                1.35     1.07      0.28
Training                      0.00 0.00 0.14 0.14 0.14 0.14                          0.57      0.06     0.51
Subtotal          0.40 0.42 0.78 0.75 0.78 0.77 0.20 0.18 0.00 0.00       4.29     1.42      2.87
0.0o
Total Base Cost          3.65 3.63 4.46 4.33 5.17 5.02 4.11 3.94 3.60 3.41    41.31    27.12    14.19
0.00
Phys. Contingency             0.33 0.32 0.37 0.36 0.44 0.43 0.39 0.38 0.36 0.34      3.73      2.61     1.12
Price Contingency             0.05 0.10 0.24 0.35 0.57 0.69 0.70 0.79 0.84 0.90      5.28      3.48     1.80
Subtotal          0.38 0.42 0.61 0.71 1.01 1.12 1.09 1.17 1.20 1.24       9.01     6.09      2.92
0.00
TOTAL COSTS          4.03 4.05 5.07 5.04 6.18 6.14 5.20 5.11 4.80 4.65    50.32    33.21    17.11



Annex 5
Financial Assessment
Road Sector Finances
1.   Road transport revenues derived from this sector are not directly
earmarked for use within the sector; all enter the treasury to be distributed
in accordance with general budgetary practices. Nonetheless there is
sufficient surplus generated within the sector to cover all existing
expenditures plus additional capital outlays and debt service resulting in
this project and the projected 5-year Infrastructure Investment Program. (See
Table 1).
2.   The principal revenue sources are various duties levied on tubes and
tires, vehicles and motor fuel. Import duty on vehicles, tires and tubes and
motor fuel constitute an important source accounting for over 402 in 1988. Of
these, the import duty on motor vehicles account for over 75Z of total import
duty collected. It has been progressively increasing in real terms with an
average annual growth rate of nearly 24? and amounted to over US$ 105 million
in 1988. Import duties on motor fuel and tires and tubes account for the rest
and have been increasing at an average annual growth rate of 30.51 and 28.5?,
respectively.
3.   Next in importance is the stamp duty on vehicles, motor fuel and tires
and tubes. Together they constitute over 382 of the revenues collected in
1988. Of these, stamp duty on vehicles accounted for over 70? of the revenues
derived from this duty; with the other two making up the rest. However,
information on motor vehicles is not complete for all years and there are wide
fluctuations from year to year.
4.   Capital revenues are a secondary source and have hovered around 3.52 of
total revenues since 1985. In 1989, financing through loans accounted for USS
11.6 million.                                  %
5.   The principal application of the above-mentioned sources has been to
recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of Construction (Works) and capital
investments including road maintenance. Historically, recurrent expenditures
have progressively declined from over 612 of total expenditures in 1984 to 132
in 1988. In absolute terms they have declined from some US$ 13 million to 10
million during this period. Capital investments have increased at an average
annual growth rate of over 362 during the same period. In 1988, however, they
peaked at an estimated 74 million dollars (85? of total expenditures) due to
the damage causec by Hurricane Gilbert.
Financial Impact
6.   As stated in paragraph 1, duties, fees and other charges levied on road
users are collected by the Ministry of Finance and redistributed to the
different sectors in annual budgetary allocations. The financial analysis has



therefore centered on the financial requirements and capability for supporting
a 5-year rolling investment program. Table 2 indicates the projected annual
financing requirements for the Five-Year Infrastructure Investment Program
showing IBRD, GOJ, and other donor participation.
7.   Table 3 provides greater detail with regard to this proposed financing.
Line item 1, Table 3 indicates the projected total annual investment program,
conservatively based on historic investment levels. Line item 2 shows the
annual sources of foreign funding which have already been committed and are
on-going. Line item 3 indicates the schedule of annual financing from the
recently-signed IDB project (April, 1990) and this proposed Bank project. GOJ
funds, shown in item 4, have been based on historic levels and what can
realistically be anticipated under current financial conditions. Item 5,
consequently, indicates financing gaps between the projected program (Line
item 1) and projected total available funds (the sum of Line items 2,3, and
4).
8.   The Government is currently discussing with several interested sources
(Japan, EEC, IDB) additional loans/grants to fill these gaps, and the
liklihood is favorable. Should additional financing not be forthcoming,
however, GOJ has several options:
(1) Request the Bank and IDB to advance their schedule of disbursements
to cover the gaps in the earlier years (assuming projects are
ready);
(2) Increase the level of GOJ financing; or
(3) Defer the lowest-priority projects to later years.
Under any circumstances, the primary objective of the Bank project would be
met.
9.   In view of serious macro financial constraints, conservative assumptions
have been used to assess the financial prospects of MOC(W) during project
implementation. On this basis, the projections indicate MOC(W) would be able
to absorb project components and sustain additional investments at levels
comparable to the mid-eighties, and the potential exists for greater leverage
in investment financing. Table 4 provides details on the financial situation
assessment showing historic and projected trends.



NATIONAL ROAD TRANSPORT SECTOR ANALYSIS - (US 81000'S)
|                                               1984/861986/88 1988/87 1987/F3 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/951
l _ _ _ - - - - _______--------------- - -- - ---------------- I- - - - - -- - ------------------ --l 
I  REVNUES                                  I       I       l       I       l        l       I       I        l       l       l       I
a) Current                              I      I        I       I       I        I       I       i        I
- Import Duty -Tyres and Tubes        I 3a88   10294 I 8462 I 134u88   16212 I 19616 I 23492   2a492 1 23492 I 28279 I 28279
-Import Duty - Road-Motor Vehicles  128139 1 44690 1 37389 1 88172 1106574 1130782 1130782 1130782 1130782 1130782 1130782
-Import Duty - Motor Fuel               3 55665   10015 I 8177 7   13216 I 16786   18734 I 22308 I 28669  1 31622   3766  1 376S1 
- Excise Outy - Motor Fuel (a)          2724   20a9s   63088   2S901    3 730   26901   26901   26901   26901   2S901   2 Zv901 
l   -Excise Duty - Tubes and Tyree     2618    199,4  62655   4277  18107  17311   less    200S    21641 23321 23321
l   - Driver's Licence Fees etc.            8 6a7 1 U80     7276     6900    7619    7 7?4    903O8     8311     8593 18884    8 8841
-Stamp Duty - Tubes and Tyres         I (b)  I 12210 1 12130 I 19158   20713 1 22396 I 24489 I 28777 I 29278   3 32014 I 32014
l                       M- otor Fuel             (b)  l 10711 l 10507 l 17484   18647 I 19909 I 21267 I 22696 I 24233 I 26874 I 25874
l                     - Motor Vehicles         I (b)  | 43208 I       (118418J7    90285 I 90286 1 90286 1 90286 1 90285 | 90286 1 90286 1
- Consumption Duty - Tubes and Tyree l 2281 I  831    1400 I 2000    3 3283 | 3743 I 4268 e    4888 I 6549 I 8327   68327
- Motor Fuel         348      7 748    1375    1983    3271    4530 I 6276 I 8891  .12038   18674   18674
- Motor Vehicles    94w7 I 13897 I 14952 I 28204 I 37102 I 39919   42949   4 48210   49718   63a493   6349? I
b) Capltal                              l      I                                 I       I                I       l       l
- Financing Loans  - MDC(W)           I 0    8194   10835   13747 I 11771   11608   27438   818356 I 36951   41678   6223t
- RPUT            |-I-I -I                I  266 1 613         -- I-                      01      01      01
I        -OCronts           -NDc(W) 1C1                            -  18  694 117981-               -   I  -              O    0 1     01
I                           - MPUT                _   I_   I  -   I  -             _   I  _   I  _   I  _   I  _   I  _   I-
|     c) Total Revenues                         57281 1180649 l18eOS1  1394824 1337769 1396829 1429343 1447916 1470808 1500074 1611131
2 EXPENDITURES                              I       I       I       I       I        I
a) Recurrent                            I      I        I       I       I        I       I       I        I        i i
I       - Ministry of Construction (M)         113448 1 14390 1 10729 1 9460 1 10028 1 8810 I 9609 1 10726 1 11600 1 12196   13147 1
- Ministry of Transport               l-I   -   l  -              I       _   I  _         I  _    I  _   l                     I
b) Capital
- Ministry of Construction MW).       111216 1 21038 1 37727 1 42424 | 72867 1 26164   46096 11 28356  58861 1 88178 1 78436
- Mlinistry of Transport*             l-   l          I  -        266  113 1-I    -                     I
I~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~ . I                       1       I       I        I       I           -        -       -            I
c) Total Expenditures                   124884 1 36428 1 48466 1 S2129 I 83208 1 34984 1 55606 183080 1 70461 1 78373 1 91682 |
II                                                     I       I       I       I        I       I       I    l           I       I
INET FUNDS FOR DEBT SERVICE & ADDITIONAL       132597 1145123 1132159 1342495 1264552 1361065 1373738 1384865 1400167 1421701 1419549 1
CAPITAL OUTLAYS                                                                                                          I
I___ _________ -_-_-_____________-------------_____________________________________________________________-_-_________________________  x
(a) -  Excludes the figures for April, Msy & August 1989 for Gasolene.                                                                  *
(b) Data not available
4  -  Includes Capital A & 8.
IBRD Project
MOC(W)  -   Ministry of Construction (Works)
MLG      -   Ministry of Local Government
MPUT     -   Ministry of Public Utilities & Transport
Source   -  Statistical Institute of Jamaica
- Internal Revenue Dept.



11
relative priority and availability of other sources of funds during
project implementation. The Bank would approve any such changes
during the annual re-evaluation of the rolling five year Program to
be reviewed with the Bank. In the initial development of
maintenance activities and/or the removal of backlogs of work, all
types of maintenance are to be financed by the Bank. However, GOJ
has agreed to provide counterpart funds annually (S20,000,000 for
fiscal year 1991/1992; $21,000,000 for fiscal year 1992/1993:
$22,000,000 for fiscal year 1993/1994; $23,000,000 for fiscal year
1994/1995; and $24,000,000 for fiscal year 1995/1996) to carry out
an adequate routine and periodic maintenance program. This
commitment should provide a discipline to promote sustainability to
the maintenance activities, once the project is complete.
c.  Equipment Maintenance Program. (2% of project cost)  MOC(W) has
developed and adopted a new system for managing the vehicles and
construction/maintenance equipment used in carrying out the Ministry
activities. To facilitate implementation of this system, Project
funds will be used to assist with financing technical assistance to
help set up and implement a new equipment management system and help
develop contracts for equipment rental and lease, and purchase spare
parts, equipment, and tools to facilitate maintenance of that
equipment which it is more cost-effective for MOC(W) to maintain.
d.  Road Safety Program. 12% of project costs) This component provides
for technical assistance to carry out the necessary study (defined
in Annex 2) to develop, and assist with implementation of, a
comprehensive road safety program. It also includes equipment,
materials, and other support (media, printing, public relations)
necessary to develop/promote the road safety program.
3.04     The remainder of the Five Year Investment Program, including some of
the technical assistance, training, and studies, would be financed from other
sources including external agencies. In addition to their own funds, the
Government of Jamaica has secured agreements with CIDA, IDB, CDB, USAID, the
Saudi Fund, and EEC to finance portions of the five-year Program. (Details of
these agreements are included in Annex 1.) While providing only about 12% of
the financing needed over the five-year period, the proposed Bank Project acts
as a catalyst, helping to initiate, coordinate and validate the process of
Program development and maintenance.
D. Project Execution
3.05     Organization and Hanagement.  The Governmentes representative for
administration of the Project will be the Ministry of Construction (Works)
(MOC(W)). Within MOC(W), the Directorate of Planning and Budgeting (DPB) will
be responsible for administration of the proposed loan, including disbursement
applications, operation of the Special &ccount, preparation and remittance of
progress reports to the Bank, coordination with the Auditor General. and
general project coordination. DPB would also be responsible for the annual



12
re-evaluation and upgrading of the Five-Year Investment Program and liaison
with the Ministries of Finance, and Production, Development, and Planning.
Coordination of all projects, particularly those funded by external agencies,
would be carried out by the Projects Control and Monitoring Unit within DPB.
To facilitate coordination, GOJ has agreed to have a meeting of the active
external funding agencies with HOC(W) not later than November 30th of each
year to discuss project progress, delays and or problems that may necessitate
reallocation of funds or rescheduling, issues such as procurement or work
quality, and generally provide a synergistic rather than a competitive
approach among the different funding agencies (para. 4.01(g)). Implementation
of civil works would be the responsibility of the appropriate line
directorates, i.e. (i) routine and periodic maintenance activities:
Directorate of Maintenance; (ii) rehabilitation and construction: Division of
Roads within the Directorate of Highways; (iii) traffic management and road
safety components: Division of Traffic and Road Safety within the Directorate
of Highways. Road safety activities will be implemented by several entities
(police, schools, licensing groups, public transport operators, et al, but
they will all be coordinated through the Division of Traffic and Road Safety;
(iv) equipment management: Directorate of Equipment Management; and (v)
training: Training Division of the Directorate of Personnel. An organization
chart is shown in Annex 2.
3.06     MOC(W) is in the process of reorganization to facilitate operation
as described above. This reorganization involves restructuring the number and
types of administrative and operative units in the Ministry, their
responsibility and accountability functions, and transfer of personnel. The
Ministries of Finance and Public Service have given their preliminary approval
e'o the reorganization, and the latter is assisting with development of unit
and individual task descriptions, the final step to obtaining formal
Government approval. This reorganization is essential to improving efficiency
and quality in the Ministry's work. Initial steps have already been taken,
including assignment of all project units to report directly to line
directorates. External agencies whose projects were affected have agreed to
these changes. Features of the re-organization are more fully described in
Annex 2, along with details regarding the technical assistance necessary
during the Ministry's transition to a more efficient organization.
3.07     Training.  Although implementation of civil works comprises the
majority of project costs, success in meeting project objectives depends on
the capacity of MOC(W) to efficiently plan and manage its annual work program.
Training components have been formulated to overcome the problems described in
paragraph 2.16 by: (a) emphasizing managerial training as well as that of
professlonals and technicians through seminars, postgraduate courses,
technical short courses, and on-the-job instruction; (b) stimulating the use
of external training courses already available in Jamaica; and (c)
strengthening the existing MOC(W) training unit so as to enable it to provide
targeted, viable programs in support of Ministry activities.
3.08     The training program would be an integral part of the Five-Year
Investment Program, with portions funded locally and others included in
various externally-funded projects. Financing would be provided under the
proposed loan for: (a) studies of training needs, lncluding training



13
evaluation and followup; (b) contracting courses wlth local and international
institutions; (c) strengthening the MOC(W) unit in charge of training; (d)
consultant services to assist MOC(W) in planring, implementing, and monitoring
the training; and (e) funds to prepare and Implement specific portions of the
overall training program identified in the Five-Year Investment Program.
Details of the training to be included in the proposed Bank Project are
included in Annex 2.
3.09      Implementation.  The Project would be implemented over a five-year
period. Though 12 months shorter than the regional profile, it is in
accordance with experience in Loan 2293-JM (Highway Maintenance Project) and
coincides with the Five-Year Investment Program based on projections of
availability of local counterpart funds and involvement and cooperation of the
different external funding agencies. The Project Implementation Schedule is
included as Annex 3. Specific components have been identified for inclusion
in each year's program. The Five-Year Investment Program, however, is a
rolling plan, re-evaluated each year, and there may be some variation in the
exact timing of component implementation based on the priority assigned
through re-evaluation each year. The timing of the proposed studies and
technical assistance, however, is critical to achievement of project
objectives regardless of the civil works implementation schedule. The
following Action Plan has therefore been agreed:
(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the following shall be the
schedule for implementation of the following activities:
Commence         Furnish       Review
Implementation   Recommend.   Recommend.
of Study by      to the Bank  with
Activity            -(date)            (date)     IBRD by
Studies
Road User Costs             12/31/92          9/30/93    12/31/93
Road Safety                 12/31/91         12/31/92     3/30/93
Flood Water Control         3/31/92          3/31/93     6/30/93
Tech. Assistance            Appointment By
Project Director             1/1/91
Transport Econ.              1/1/91
Highway Plan/Engr            1/1/91
Proj. Engineers             2/28/91
Equip. Mgmt. Spec           2/28/91
Institutional Specialist   2/28/91
Environ. Specialist         3/31/91
(b)   With regard to the Road User Cost Allocation Study referred to
in paragraph (a), it is further agreed that, based on the results of
the study and recommendations to the Bank, the Borrower will develop
and carry out actions necessary to implement the recommendations,
revised to take into account the Bank's comments.



14
(c)    The borrower will prepare and provide to the Bank no later
than within 30 days of the end of each quarter ending December 31,
March 31, June 30, and September 30, of each year until the Closing
Date, a written report an the progress achieved in the execution of,
inter alia, the physica), financial, and institutional aspects of
the Project. Each such report shall be of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request and shall include inter alia,
information indicating progress achieved, measured against key
monitoring and evaluation indicators acceptable to the Bank. The
report covering the period ending March 31 of each year should
include the adopted (or proposed) budget for the following fiscal
year.
(d)   Not later than October 1 each year, the borrower will provide
to the Bank a written report on the progress made during the
previous year in the implementation of the Five Year Investment
Program including other e2.ternally-funded projects. Each such report
shall be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request and shall include inter alia, information indlcating
progress achieved, measured agalnst key monitoring and evaluation
indicators acceptable to the Bank.
(e)   Durlng the annual review of the updated Five Year Investment
Program, GOJ will present to the Bank evidence that any land
necessary for construction activities proposed for the succeeding
year has been acquired.   Land acquisition would be done in
accordance with policies, rules, and criteria acceptable to the
Bank. Should implementation of the proposed project require
displacement or resettlement of population, GOJ would notify the
Bank thereof, and upon the Bank's request would present a
resettlement plan, satisfactory to the Bank, prlor to any
displacement or resettlement.
(f)   The borrower will Implement the plan of reorganization as per
the provisions of the schedule agreed to with the Bank dated October
10, 1990.
(g)   The borrower will implement the equipment maintenance system
as per the provisions of the schedule agreed to with the Bank dated
October 10, 1990.
3.10     Status of Project Preparation.  MOC(W) has prepared and recommended
to the relevant Government agencies its Five-Year Investment Program, and the
Bank's proposed Project components have been identified, evaluated, and
scheduled. Agreements have been reached with external financing agencies as
to the relative scheduling of their projects and on the reorganization of the
Ministry. MOC(W) has agreed on the elements of its reorganization, has
received prelLmLnary approval from approprlate Government officials, and has
begun implementation of the proposals, including identiflcation and placement
of key staff. With the exception of routine and perlodic maintenance,
engineering designs of all civil works to be started during the flrst year of



15
implementation are complete. Terms of reference for all studies and
technical assistance are complete.
3.11     Monitorinq and Reporting Requirements.  MOC(W) would furnish project
progress reports to the Dank within 30 days of the end of each quarter. These
reports will focus on physical, financial, and Institutional aspects of the
project in accor:'nce with agreed indicators.  In addition, prior to October
lot of each year, MOC(W) will provide to the Bank a progress report
summarizing activity on all projects, both locally and externally-funded,
administered by MOC(W).
E. Project Costs
3.12     Total costs of the proposed Bank-funded project are estimated to be
approximately USS50 million, including taxes and duties of about US$7.5
million. Foreign exchange costs represent approximately 34% of the total
costs.   Costs are based on actual prices at the time of preparation,
projected to September 30, 1990. Coets for civil works construction are based
on contractors' unit prices for e4milar works; equipment prices are based on
manufacturers' quotations and recent purchases. Fees for technical assistance
and other profrzsional services are based on Jamaican and Bank experience with
similar locally and internationally recruited experts in Jamaica. Physical
contingencies of 10% were included for all civil works. Price contingencies
were calculated with anticipated international inflation rates of 4.9% per
annum for the period 1990 - 1995. The project cost summary is shown in Table
I1.1; detailed cost tables are provided in Annex 4.
Table 1I11l Suomary of Costs
(USS lllts)
C-OMPONENS   LOCAL  PORE1N  TTAL  FC UXU2N BASS COST
Civil Works   23.0   10.9   33.9   32S      82S
Design &
Supervision   2.7    0.4    3.1   13S       8S
Equipmeat &
Spare Parts   0.1    0.5    0.6   831       it
Tech. Asst.,
Training & Studies  1.3    2.4    3.S   63S  91
TOTAL SA COSTS 27.1   14.2   41.3   341    1001
Physical
Contingencies  2.6    1.1    3.7   301      9S
Price
Contingencies    3.5    1 8    5.3   34Z   13S
TOTAL
CONTINGENCIES   6.1    2.9    9.0   321   22S
TOTAL COSTS    33.2   17.1   50.3   342    122Z



16
F. Financing Plan
3.13     The Bank loan of US$35 million would finance approximately 70% of
total Project costs: 100% of foreign exchange costs and about 54% of local
costs. Financing of local costs is justified based on the urgent need for
large expenditures in the sector to arrest deterioration of the road network,
to support the reorganization and renewed institutional policies of MOC(W),
and to facilitate the most cost-effective use of Bank funding in coordination
with other existing external funding arrangements which are typically 70% -
100%. The loan would be made to the Government of Jamaica at the standard
variable rate for 17 years, including a 5-year grace period. The beneficiary
would be the Ministry of Construction iWorks), which vould receive the funds
in fiscal appropriations from the Ministry of Finance. Counterpart funding
would be provided by the Government of Jamsica.
3.14       The specific elements of the Government's Five-Year Investment
Program to be funded by the Loan will be coordinated with the projected
availability of other funds based on existing and proposed external funding
agreements and projected local revenues.   The proposed loan would finance
approximately 12% of the projected five-year Program costs of USS302 million,
the Government of Jamaica would finance approximately 37%, and other external
financing the remaining 51%. The financing plan for the Project and Program
is provided in Annex 5, along with a discussion of the financial impact of the
Project.
G. Procurement
3.15      International competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Procurement
guidelines, would be used for all civil works contracts in excess of US$2.0
million and the purchase of goods costing over US$100,000. This includes
approximately     15% of the civil works procurement and 67% of goods
purchases. Local shopping, with at least three quotations, would be used for
procurement of civil works and goods costing less than US$SO,000 for civil
works and US$25,000 for goods, but not exceeding an aggregate of US$750,000
and USS100,000 respectively. Local competitive bidding (LCB) would be used
for all other contracts for civil works and goods. LCB procedures were
reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works for routine
maintenance of road infrastructure, and civil works for construction of new
road infrastructure not to exceed in the aggregate US$500,000 equivalent, may
be carried out by force account under procedures and unit costs acceptable to
the Bank. Force account procedures and unit costs have been reviewed and are
acceptable. Periodic review will be made during project supervision. All
procurement for studies, technical assistance, and training would be done in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 111.2.
3.16      The relatively small amount of ICB is because most procurement
relates to small maintenance and rehabilitation works scattered throughout the
country and spread over a five-year period.   Jamaican experience in the
sector in the past indicates little or no interest from foreign bidders for
this type of project, due to the difficulty in competing successfully with the
local contracting industry. Jamaica presently has numerous small contractors



17
and three large companies, including one foreign firm, capable of heavy
overlay work. In an effort to stimulate interest, projects wlll be packaged
where feasible to make them more attractive to foreign companies and all
procurement for both civil works and goods under LCB would be open to foreign
bidders. This would be facilitated by a direct announcement to all official
foreign representatives in Jamaica (embassies, consulates, commercial
attaches, etc.) prior to January 30th of each year advising them of the
tentative scope and content of the Ministry's public investment program for
the next fiscal year and advice as to qualification/bidding procedures and
whom to contact. This would be in addition to the Bank's required General
Procurement Notice to be published in Development Business.
3.17     Prior Bank review and approval would be required of all IC8, and of
all procurement documents related to the first two contracts each of civil
works and goods procured under LCB procedures. All other procurement would be
reviewed ex post on a sample basis. All procurement for studies, technical
assistance, and training would require prior Bank review and approval.
Table 111.2 PROCUREHENT ARAAGI"ZNSS 11
(US$ millions)
PaoJScT ELME El                 PROCUREM? HETMOD
ICs  LCS    0o7t.  TOTAL
21
Civil Works                   6.3   32.2    3.3  41.8
(4.3)    (21.7)   (2.3)  (26.3)
3'
Equipment & Spare Parts       0.4   0.1    0.1  0.6
(0.2)  (0.1)   (0.1)  (0.4)
41
Technical Assistance. Training, Studies.  7.9  7.9
Design 6 Suiervision                    (6.3)  (6.;)
TOTAL                         6 7  32.3   11.3  50.3
(4.5)    (21.8)   (8.7)  (35.0)
Notes  11 Including taxes and contingenciest amounts in brackets show
allocations from loan proceeds.
21 Local Shopping and force account.
3/   Local Shopping.
41 Studies, technical assistance, training, design and
supervision, procured in accorance with Bank guidelines.
H. Disbursements
3.18     The loan would be disbursed over a five-and-one-half year period as
followss {i) Civil Works: 68% of total expenditures; (ii) Equipment and spare
parts? 100% of foreign and 70% of local expenditures; and (iii) Studies,
Technical Assistance, and Training: 80% of total expenditures. Only those
investments included in the Five-Year Investment Program and approved for
funding by the Bank would be considered eligible civil works for disbursement
from the loan.
3.19     Disbursement for eligible expenditures for civil works contracts
valued at under USS500,000, and goods contracts valued at under US$100,000,



18
and training expenses included in the annual training plan, would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SORE). Supporting documentation would be
retained by MOC(W) and available for review during supervision missions.
Retroactive financing of all eligible expenditures, not exceeding US$3.5
million, would be provided ior expenditures approved by the Bank and incurred
after April 1, 1990. Eligible expenses would include training, technical
assistance, and studies, equipment necessary to carry out the studies and
institutional strengthening, and civil works. A projected disbursement
schedule is provided in Annex 6.
}. Accounts and Audits
3.20     To reduce the interval between payments made by the beneficiary and
receipt of reimbursements from the Bank, a Special Account would be
established in the Central Bank of Jamaica. The Special Account would be
denominated in US dollars and would be established with an initial deposit of
US$2.3 million, the average four-month requirement. Project expenditures
would be monitored by the Planning and Budgeting Directorate, which would
request replenishment on the basis of the Bank's standard disbursement
procedures. Present budgetbri and accounting systems appear adequate to
record the transactions and verify the levels of expenditures for various
activities, including routine and periodic maintenance disaggregated between
the urban and interurban areas.
3.21       The Government of Jamaica would arrange for independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank to provide to the Bank, within four months of the close
of the fiscal year, annual audit report(s) (i) reflecting the financial
performance of the project based on an adequately prepared Statement of
Sources and Application of Funds and related project accounts; (ii) regarding
the SOEs; and (iii) on the transactions and availability of funds in the
Special Account. These report(s) would include opiniors on the adequacy of
the accounting systems and internal controls, and compliance with loan
covenants. Audits would be performed in conformity with accepted auditing
standards under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
J. Economic Justification
3.22      In addition to technical, financial, and environmental analysis, the
basis upon which this Project has been prepared is the development of an
annual investment program using socio-economic evaluation to establish
priorities. Only expenditures which are economically justified (IERR in
excess of 12%) are included for consideration, and these are then scheduled
according to a priority based on their economic ranking. (Experience dictates
that there will be the necessity to advance projects in priority based on
social and/or political benefits, but the proposed system will make this the
exception to be justified, rather than the rule with no scrutiny.) Detailed
economic examination has been carried out of the components proposed for the
first two years of the Program (not just the proposed Bank project) and will
be continued as the project progresses as part of the annual update of the
Five-Year Investment Program. These evaluations are compiled in two volumes
in the project files. The evaluation was done by the Projects Planning Unit
(formally the Road Planning Unit) with technical assistance financed by USAID



19
and the Bank. This Unit will become a part of the newly organized Planning
and Budgeting Directorate in MOC(W) and will be responsible for evaluating all
proposed expenditures by MOC(W) as an lnput to development of the annual
investment programs. Technical assistance will be continued as part of the
proposed Project for 24 months to train MOC(W) staff recently transferred to
the Unit. Evaluation methodologies used by the various lending agencies, as
well as those used in the Bank's urban project (Ln. 2389-Ji), were reviewed
and reconciled to assure validity and comparability across the various
programs. Procedures and values have been agreed upon and are acceptable to
the Bank. Overall, the Project's IERR is in excess of 40%.
K. Project Benefits
3.23     The Project will precipitate institutional improvements in the
operation of MOC(W) and more cost-effective management of a major portion of
the PSIP. The useful life of infrastructure will be increased, and vehicle
opetLting costs reduced.  Efficient operations will encourage continued
funding by external donors. Due to the broad sectoral nature of the Project,
it is not possible to quantify with any degree of accuracy the percentage of
project benefits that will accrue directly to the poor. It is possible,
however, to conclude that the poor will benefit in several ways:
(1)  Public transport is usually the only means of access to educational,
social, and employment benefits for lower-income groups. The cost
and reliability of this transport is directly related to the
condition of the road network.
(ii)  Freight costs and damaged goods have a higLer proportional impact on
lower-income groups than on higher.
(iii) The small farmer's access to market is a function of the reliability
of the road network.
(iv)  Establishment of a stable, annual road infrastructure investment
program will improve employment opportunities for unskilled labor.
L. Environmental Impact
3.24     Typically, the types of activities included in the Project will not
produce adverse environmental effects if they are properly carried out. These
are primarily maintenance and rehabilitation works implemented within existing
rights-of-way. The potential exists, however, for serious environmental
damage as a result of improper disposal of waste material, changes of drainage
channels, dredging of fill material, and improper construction methods.
Consequently, as part of the Project, a format for environmental analysis of
all proposed HOC(W) investments will be developed. This analysis will be the
responsibility of the Planning and Buigeting Directorate (Projects Planning
Unit) and will be a part of each project's evaluation similar to that of the
economic and technical evaluation. This would allow mitigating measures to be
included in the project design, and specific clauses would be included in
contract specifications to preclude construction practices which lead to
environmental degradation. Technical assistance (approx. 12 mm) would be



20
provided to the Projects Planning Unit to evaluate all current proposals and
develop Immediate mitigation measures, as well as a long-term strategy.
Training would be provided to the members of the Unit as well as to engineers,
technicians, and on-site inspectors (including consultants and contractors) in
the environmental issues and a range of solutions related to highway design,
construction, and maintenance.
M. Land Acquisition
3.25     Land acquisition is minimal in this project inasmuch as
maintenance/rehabilitation activities would generally take place within
existing rights-of-way. No relocation of families or businesses is
anticipated. Project selection criteria will seek to minimize property
acquisition. However, inasmuch as this is a rolling Five Year Investment
Program in which projects are re-evaluated annually and priorities are subject
to change, it is possible that some acquisition of land may be necessary,
particularly for widening of intersections or to improve sight distance. In
those cases, any potential property acquisition and/or relocation would be
reviewed by the Bank during its annual review of che proposed investment
program, and projects would not be included in a subsequent year's
construction program until rights-of-way had been acquired. Land acquisition
would be done in accordance with policies, rules, and criteria acceptable to
the Bank. Should implementation of any proposed project require displacement
or resettlement of population, the Government would notify the Bank thereof,
and upon the Bank's request would present a resettlement plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, prior to any displacement or resettlement. tpara. 4.01 1.
N. Project Risks
3.26     The lack of counterpart funding and the institutional inability of
MOC(W) to carry out its responsibilities on a timely basis in the past have
resulted in numerous delays and generally poor performance in respect of
externally-funded projects. Recognizing this, MOC(W) began reorganization in
mid-1990 to facilitate better planning, budgeting, and coordination of
projects and improve the responsibility and accountability of its line
agencies. Salary levels of key personnel have been increased, which should
result in improved retention of existing staff and attractiveness to new
technicians. The staffing issue is also being addressed by increased use of
external services for tasks such as design, drafting, and supervision, thus
enabling a few qualified technicians to manage a larger work program.
Mechanisms have been put in place to coordinate the various externally-funded
programs to provide complementarity and synergism rather than competition for
resources. The Five-Year Investment Program has been developed for the first
time based on technical/economic evaluation of projects and realistically
projected budget allocations. This five Year Investment Program would be
reviewed annually in a joint meeting of the Government of Jamaica, the Bank,
and other donors in light of a re-evaluation of projects and newly projected
budget allocations. It is still not certain, however, that sufficient budget
allocations and/or timely authorization by the Ministry of Finance to spend
allocated funds (warrants) will be made consistently during the life of the
project. The Government has agreed to the priority of the program and Its
funding needs, and warrant releases have been changed to a quarterly rather



21
than monthly basis. As part of macro-policy dialogue, however, Bank
representatives will still need to review periodically with Government the
priorities of this program.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  GOJ will maintain full cost recovery in respect of the national road
transport sector and will advise the Bank of any changes of policy
or actions which would adversely affect such cost recovery, and
afford the Bank an opportunity to review and comment on such changes
(para. 2.11]
(b)  GOJ will maintain wholesale prices for gasoline, diesel, lubricants
and bitumen which, net of taxes, shall be at all times not less than
the opportunity cost of the products in question. For this purpose,
"opportunity cost" means the C.I.F. (cost, insurance and freight)
cost in Jamaica of the equivalent imported product. lpara. 2.11].
(c)  GOJ will advise the Bank of any additions or modifications to the
Five Year Investment Program as they may occur during the fiscal
year (para. 2.151;
(d)  annual review with the Bank of GOJ's proposed updated Five
Year Investment Program including adequacy of evaluation
and relative priority of new investments, balance among
new construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance, as well
as appropriate pricing and cost recovery in the sector
(para. 2.151;
(e)  GOJ will advise the Bank of any surface transport
investment exceeding US$5 million during the project
implementation period, providing information on the impact
of such investments on the Program and the Project and
giving the Bank adequate opportunity to comment on such
investment prior to its commencement. [para. 2.15];
(f)  funding of an annual core maintenance program of approximately US$20
million (1990 dollars) (para. 2.20);
(g)  an annual coordination meeting of all internal and external agencies
financIally active in the sector [para. 3.05).
(h)  an Action Plan, including target dates for implementation of various
key activities (para. 3.09).
4.02     Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$35.0 million to the Government of Jamaica, to
be repaid over a period of 17 years including five years of grace.



22
4.02     Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$35.0 million to the Government of Jamaica, to
be repaid over a period of 17 years including five years of grace.
3



Annex 1
Five-Year Infrastructure Investment Program
1.       The preparation of the Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance
Project has resulted In the development of a Five-Year Infrastructure
Investment Program. Infrastructure investment needs have been identified and
prioritized according to socio-economic evaluation and projected for Inclusion
in annual programs over the next five years based on projected financial
resources. Counterpart funding has been a major issue in the past in the
scheduling and implementation of projects and, therefore, the proposed Program
has been developed using historical levels of annual counterpart funding as a
constraint. The remaining financial requirements would be met from external
sources. GOJ has signed agreements with numerous external donors to assist
with financing the proposed Program, however, there will be financial gaps In
the latter years if additional financial aid cannot be secured. In these
cases, GOJ will have to increase its own allocations or defer the lowest
priority projects to a later time. Currently, several donors are discussing
with GOJ the possibility of participating in the unfinanced portions of the
Program (IDB, USAID, Japan, EEC) and, if the projects were ready and capable
of being lmplemented, the proposed Bank financing could be advanced from the
latter to earlier years. What is important, however, is that GOJ has
developed a system of planning and evaluation that will enable it to make the
most cost-effective investments with available financial resources. There is
nothing magic about a five-year projection; GOJ recognizes the degree of
uncertainty that far in the future. Civil works often take five years to
conceive, design and implement, however, and external agencies often use this
time horizon. By having a rolling five-year investment plan, re-evaluated
every year, the annual program can expand or contract as conditions dictate.
When additional resources do become available, investments consistent with
Goverament's public sector investment policy can be readily identified.
2.       The initial Five-Year Infrastructure Investment Program is shown in
Table 1. The following paragraphs summarize the existing agreements GOJ has
with external agencies that will form part of the financing of this Program:
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) -
Jamaica/Canada Bridte Develoyment Program. Project Cost:
J$128 million. Approved: 9/30/87; expected completions
3/31193. Project Description: Design and reconstruct 35
bridges, develop a bridge inspection and maintenance
system, and provide technical assistance and training for
local staff.
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) - Rural
Roads Rehabilitation Program. Project Costt J$99.4
million. Approveds 6/29/86; expected completions
121/31/90. Project Description: Finance the
rehabilitation of tertiary roads and bridges in rural
areas, purchase of hand tools and spare parts for
maintenance equipment, and technical assistance.



2
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) - Rural Roads
Improvewent Program II. Project Cost: J$298 million.
Approved 1216/89; expected completion: 6/15/94. Project
Description: Rehabilitation, improvement, and maintenance
of roads in rural areas, purchase of equipment, training,
and technical assistance.
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) - Road Improvement and
Maintenance Prosram III. Project Cost: J$209 million.
Approved 7/1/83; expected completion: 7/1/91. Project
Description: Periodic maintenance of main roads,
procurement of vehicles and other maintenance equipment,
and technical assistance. (This is part of the RIMP III
project (Ln. 2293-JM) co-financed with the Bank. The
Bank's portion of the project was closed 12131189).
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) - Rehabilitation of
Hurricane Damate. Project Cost: J$58.5 million.
Approval: 1/23/89; expected completion: 3/31/92. Project
Description: Rehabilitation of infrastructure damaged by
Hurricane Gilbert Including river training and sea defense
works, and repairs to gullies, roads and bridges.
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) - Highway Maintenance
Proiect. Project Costs J$37.4 million. Approved:
12/29184; expected completion: 7/31/91. Project
Description: Periodic maintenance of approximately 75
miles of main roads, and procurement of mainter _ce
equipment and associated spare parts.
European Economic Community (EEC) - Rural Roads and
Bridtes Rehabilitation Program.  Project Cost:  J$68.5
million. Approved: 1/20/89; expected completions 3131191.
Project Description: Rehabilitation of roads and bridges
in South Central Jamaica which were affected by severe
flooding in 1986.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) - Kingston Metropolitan Reiion Urban Transport
Pro1ect. Project Cost: J$157.3 million. Approved:
9/17/84; expected completion: 9/30/91. Project
Description: Maintenance and improvements to urban roads
and intersections in the Kingston area, traffic
engineering, rehabilitation of traffic signals,
procurement of equipment, training, technical assistance
and studies.



in#   55!         33  I                                                           t!!!  35                               5
off,~~3 25  3  5  '
AR  ".u nU .                                                         -              -                  U       24     3 S 4 23   *           42
*                                                   4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,4    
*1            5                           5~~~~~~~~~~~1   23 53-3.4I  s5555                                          55S!
~~ iiiI~~3                3                                                           55"
j  331   3                       3                         3   444~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q                                              53!s
331   ~~~~~~~~~~!  3        3~ ~ ~ ~~~3,
I I~E  .                                                               5   5   5   51                                 5   5                     4 5 
----------5                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
i;.-                  5          - ~~~~~~~~........-------    - --
S.                                s                          S 5         5                                    5133
Elf!  S                           55                           5   5   3 3 5I  -   35                 5           5 
at    '1  finS!  55  3  55       5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    555~~~~~  15555            555555   ~~~~~~~~~~~5 
555      5          5         S~~~~13553 I I55 I         555  33 3                  55                       5555S
1  ".. . . .  .. . .. . .. . .. .   .   . .. ... . .
Iji**  ~~~~~~~5  55             n5        el#     gal5 ~   &       



Annex 2
Institutional Strentthenina
Reorganization. Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
1.       As described in para.2.14, institutional issues are major
impediments to MOC(W)'s Implementation of a cost-effective investment program.
As a result, the major thrust of this project is not so much the
implementation of works, but the develoment of the capabilities and processes
to improve the cost-effectiveness of this investment. Implementation of works
is a vital part of the proposed project and will provide large economic
benefits, but the institutional changes brought about by this project through
reorganization, technical assistance, training, and studies will have the most
far-reaching effects.
Reorganization
2.       The current organizational structure of MOC(W) has been in place for
30 years and, as often happens, has been patched and modified to meet various
demands imposed by lending agencies, governmental restructuring, inadequate
funding, and staffing constraints. As a result, responsibility for some
programs is fragmented, authority is often unclear, and the limited number of
qualified managers and technicians are scattered among numerous project units.
The Ministry's annual investment program did not develop from a systematic
evaluation of all proposals, but resulted from local pressures and the offers
and requirements of external funding agencies working within specific areas of
interest. Recognizing the problems this was creating, the Ministry has
reorganized, as shown in Attachement 1. The most salient features includes
a) Re-creation of appropriate line agencies (directorates)
which represent the mission and focus of the Ministry.
This has resulted in the elimination of various
independent project entities, often with similar
objectives (i.e. road maintenance) but which operated
outside the normal chains of command or responsibility.
All programs have now been consolidated within the
appropriate diroctorate, with clear objectives,
management, and lines of authority and responsibility.
b) Creation of a Directorate of Planning and Budgeting with
responsibility for evaluating (technical, economic,
financial, and environmental) public sector investment
proposals, developing and maintaining a rolling multi-year
investment program based on these evaluations commensurate
with available financing, and monitoring program
performance. A major role of this new directorate will be
the responsibility to coordinate the various external
lending programs among the lenders and with Jamaica's
public sector investment priorities.
c) Creation of a Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Branch
within the Directorate of Highways so as to concentrate



Annex 5
TabLe 1.1
NOTES TO TABLE 1
NATIONAL ROAD TRANSPORT SECTOR ANALYSIS - (US  S'000)
I                                              I             _ 
t                               {         ~~~~~~~~A  S  S  U  M P T  I 0  N  S    
I 1 REVENUES                                   I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 
I     a) Current
- Import Duty -Tyres and Tubes         M Minimum growth rate for 1990 and constant till 94
I       - Import Duty - Road Motor Vehicles  lAverage growth rate of 23% and constant thereafter    I
- Import Duty - Motor Fuel            IProjected to increase at minimum growth rate of 19%.  I
- Excise Duty - Motor Fuel            IUaintained constant at 1987/88 level.
- Excise Duty - Tubes and Tyres       lAverage growth rate of 7.7%.
- Driver's Licence Fees etc.          lAverage growth rate of 3.4%
- Stamp Duty - Tubes and Tyres        lProjected to increase at minimum growth rate of 8.1I.
- Motor Fuel            lProjected to increase at minimum growth rate of 6.8%  1
- Motor Vehicles        IMaintained constant at 1988/89 levels
I        - Consumption Duty - Tubes and Tyres lAverage growth rate of 14%
I                           - Motor Fuel       lAverage growth rate of 38.6%
- Motor Vehicles  lProjected to increase at minimum growth rate of 7.6X  l
b) Capital                              I                                                       I
- Financing Loans  - MOC(W)           IData provided by Ministry of Construction (Works)      I
I                                                       I
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2 EXPENDITURES
a) Recurrent
- Ministry of Construction (W)        lData provided by Ministry of Construction (Works)
- Ministry of Transport               INot Applicable
I  I
b) Capital                              I
- Ministry of Construction (W).       IData provided by Ministry of Construction (Works)      i
- Ministry of Transport               INot Applicable                                         I
I
I______ __ __  - - _______  - _     - -- - -------___________ ___ _       _       _       _----



Annex 5
Table 2
FINANCING PLAN: FIV A  jtHfEN& T 
IBRO ROAD   ST"' 9.               MAINTENANCE PROJC
FISCAL YR               1990191        |         1991/92                  1992/93                 1993/94
;~~~~~~.AR   e    OT               OR      0 L,      HE.            0      - .   H 
g_njq&.  JJ.gfDQOR _       .. L_RR jIp _                 LQA         O        LQ
IsRD  awi               low  004 1OJ   0sR   OiRD 004  074OHER  O04   IBM  00 O4
A. INSTII4T'ONAL    0.75 0.34  1.8$ 1.38    1.85 0.82 2.50 1.83    1.83 0.64 2.72 1.79   0.71 0.31 3.02 1.88
8. INFRASTRUCTURE   4.18  1.89 20 06 14.63    4.74 2.11 21.01 15.62    6.s9 2.5S 23.77 15.b7    5.69 2.50 27.85 17.78
IMPROV8BIers                            __       _____
C. EQUIPMENT l4AIt-    0.13 0.07     0.12               0.64 0.42                1. S9 0.79             3.56  1.76
T841NcE PROORAM                          __.
D. ROAD SAFETY      0.48 0.22                0.41 0.19                0.62 0.29               0.77 0.36
IMPROVEMNTS
TOTAL             5._6 2.32 21.91 16.11    7.00 3.12 24.3s 17.87    8.84 3.48 28.08 18.4S   7.17 3.47 34.43 21.42
FISCAL SW               1094195                         M TOTAL            I      TOTAL PROORAN
1080 LOAN  OTtER DONOR  I18RD LOAN  OTH0R DONOR              FOREION  00J  TOTAL
.                                                             Fue~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PNS  FUNDSI
IRD CO   OT8R  00J         o8w  0OJ  OTBR  aOJ   TOTAL
A. INSTITUTIONAL    0.61 0.29 3.70 1.83       S.55  2.40 13.79 8.69   30.43       19.34  11.09  30.43
S. INFRASTRUCTURE   5.82 2.73 36.54 18.06     (. 2 11.78 129.23 61.96  249.99    136.25  93.74 249.99
IMPROVEMSNTS    .
C. EQUIPNT MAIN-               3.74  1.64     0.15  0.07  9.73 4.93   14.68        9.88   5.00  14.86
TENANCE PROGRAM
D . ROAD SAFETY                2.18  1.08     2.28  1.06  2.18  1.08    6.60       4.46   2.14   6.60
IMPROVE3 iSI4s_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                _ _ _
TOTAL             6.43 3.02 46.10 22.81    35.00 15.32 134.93 96.66  301.90    189.95  111.97 301.90
IJ  ~         ~~~~~                                                        1 .     .   ,=5_



Annex 5
Table 3
6 YEAR INFRASTRUCTURE AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
FINANCING PLAN
(US3 Milions)                      TOTAL
1990_91  1991t92  1992f93 n9981  1994/9J4TOTAL6
I. CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM      40.10    52.34    68.85    68.18    78.43        301.90
II. ONGOING DONOR INVESTMENTS
USAID-RRRP                     4.91                                              4.91
CDB-HURRICANE                  1.97     1.61                                     3.68
EEC-ROADS A BRIDGES            3.85                                              3.85
CIDA-BRIDGES                   2.92     3.96     4.66                           11.62
SOF-HWY MAINTENANCE            1.97     0.56                                     2.68
COB-RIMP                       2.83     6.32                                     8.16
1D8-FLOOD DAMAGE               1.88                                              1.88
SUBTOTAL                 20.83    11.44     4.66                           86.42
III. NEW PROJECTS
IOENTIFIED DONORS
IDB-RRIP II                 1.67     3.69    8.86    13.48                   27.67
IORD                        6.65     7.00    8.84      7.17    6.43          36.00
SUBTOTAL                  7.13    10.69    17.69   20.63    6.43           82.67
IV. GOJ FUNDS PROORAMMED 1/        18.64    20.99    21.98    24.59    26.84        111.99
V. REQUIRE FINANCING 2/             0.00     9.22    14.68   20.98   48.16           90.92
1/    QOJ funds Include Capital A project financed exclusively by OOJ funds *nd Capital 8
projects co-financed by Institutional donor agencies.
2/    Required Financing refer* to foreign donor fund, needed to be obligated to the Program.



Annex 5
TabLe 4
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION (WOBKSI
SITUATION ASSElENT (IN C,'lNT USW   IN 100 5o
1984-85 1985-06 1986-87 1S7-8  1988-  199-90 1922-91 1991-2 lIg;-93 1993-9  1994-:
ACTUAL                    BUOGETED            PROJECTED
CONSOLIDATED  BUDGET            <- ----------------------------------------------      ><
1. EXPENDITURES
CURRENT
PERSOtNNEL               9.834  10.162   5,883   6.246   6,293   5,943   6,631   7,040   7,475   7,532   7, 59
0 A H                    3,258   2,9f1   3,392   2,098   2,581   2,413   2,403   2,7513  3,154   8,613   4,139
SUPPI_IES                  35S   1,276  1.4S4   1.106   1,13       455     474     494     815     537     560
SUBTOTAL                13,448  14,390  10,729   9,450  10,020   8,810   9.509  10,288  11,144  11.682  12,289
NEW 5A&M                                                                           250     261     293     306
TOTAL RECURRiNT                 13.448  14.390  10,729   9,450  10.028   8,010   9.509  1O,537  11,405  11,975  12,595
INVESTHENTS
BASELINE                11.216  21,036  37.72?  42,424  72,667  26,134
NEW PROJECTS                                                            38,016  42,218  46,527  55,639  65,978
I}RI PROJECT                                                             8,079  10,117  12,324  103,39   9,458
5 YER  CIP              11,216  21,036  37,727  42,424  72,667  26,154  46,096  52,335  58,851  66,170  7e,435
TOTAL EXPBEDITIRES              24,664  35,427  48,455  51,874  82,695  34,964  55,604  62,872  70,256  78,153  91,00
II. REVENUES
FISCAL APPROPRIATIONS    13,448  14,390  10,729   9,450  10,028   8,810   9,509  10,537  11,405  11,975  12,595
CAPITAL
FISCAL APPROPRIATIONS 3/ 11,216  14,843  27,091  27,983  39,097  14,546  18,660  21,000  21,900  24,600  25,e00
EXISTIHO FINAlCUIM         0   6,194  10,635  14,441  13.569  11,608
PROPOSED FINANCINO 2/
loRD                                                             5,560   7,000   8.840   7,170   6,430
w08                                                              1,546   3,700   8,600  13.500       0
OTHER I/                                                        20,830  10,68   19,511  20,908  46,205
SUB1TOTAL FINANCINO        0   6,194  10,635  14,441  18,569  11,608  27,436  31,35:  36,951  41,578  52,635
SlBTOTAL CAPITAL                11,216  21,036   r,r727  42,424  72,667  26,154  46,096  52,335  58,8S1  66,178  78,488
TOTAL REYENIES                  24,664  35,427  48,455  51,874  82,695  34,964  55,603  62,872  70,256  78,153  91,03O
I/     Other includes CIDA, USAID, CDB *nd SDI *nd *e-uaee the financing  ape w;Il be filled.
2/      Propoced finacin9, in addition to proposed I8R  projoct includ. spproed 108 pro;ect.
3/      F;ael Avproprietiona include Capital 'A end Capital *8  progreos in MOCtW).
Cap'tol 'Al refers to OOJ financed projects and Capital *'e refers to projects co-financed by international donors
and OOJ.



Table 4.1
Notes to Table 4
A. EXPENDITURES
1. CURRENT EXPEDITURES:
Current expenditures for FY 1990 are based on Ministry of Finance estimates
budgeted for this year. For the rest of the years, current expenditures have
been projected to increase at the minimum growth rate observed over the last
five years. Of these, personnel expenditures have been projected to increase
in accordance with MOC(W) estimates and Ministry of Finance approval.
Operation and maintenance cost and material and supplies have also been
projected at levels ratified by MOC(W). Additional levels of operation and
maintenance are based on Ministry estimates.
2. INVESTMENTS
1990 estimates are based on Ministry of Finance budgetary allocations of US$
46 million for 1990/91 and an overall investment package of US$ 301 million.
B. REVENUES
1. FISCAL APPROPRIATIONSt
Based on decided levels of MOC(W) investments and corresponding obligations
for recurrent expenditures and 1990 appropriations as uthorized by the
Ministry of Finance. Subsequent years are projected at less than the observed
minimum growth rate in view of macro financial constraints.
2. BORROWINGS:
As determined under existing and proposed loan agreements and implementation
schedule provided by MOC(W).



Annex 6
JAMAICA
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS millions)
IDRD
FISCAL YEAR            ANNUAL          CUM.          CUM. %
1991
12/31/90             2.3           2.3             7
06/30/91             3.5           5.8            17
1992       12/31/91             3.5            9.3           27
06/30/92             4.4          13.7            39
1993       12/31/92             4.4           18.1           52
06/30/93             3.6          21.7            62
1994       12/31/93             3.6           2S,3           72
06/30/94             3.2          28.5            81
1995       12/31/94             3.2           31.7           91
06/30/95             3.3          35.0           100
NOTE:     Disbursement durLng the lst semester of 1991 includes USS2.3 million
for establishing a Special Account.



Annex 7
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.   Selected Sector Documents
A.1 Energy Sector Strategy Review Mission (1989)
Draft Consultant Report.
A.2 Memorandum on Transport Public Sector Enterprises (1986)
Report No. 6178-JM.
A.3 Public Sector Investment Program Analysis (1987)
Report No. 7020-JM.
A.4 Jamaica Country Brief (1990)
A.5 Jamaica: Adjustment Under Changing Economic Conditions (1989)
Report No. 7753-JM.
B.   Selected Proiect-Related Studies
B.1 Five-Year Infrastructure Investment Program
Volume 1
B.2 Five-Year Infrastructure Investment Program
Volume 2
B.3  Government of Jamaica Road Safety Study Report (1989)
B.4 Jamaica: Second Administration Reform Project (ARP II)
Pilot Management Improvement Program.
B.5 Review of Hire Fund Scheme/Evaluation of Alternatives
Volume 1
B.6 Review of Hire Fund Scheme/Evaluation of Alternatives
Volume 2
.
C.   Selected Pro3ect-Related Working Papers
C.1 Government of Jamaica: Terms of Reference and Budget for
Preparation of Five Year Infrastructure Investment Program and
Maintenance Project (1989).
C.2 Training Program Personnel and Course Tables
C.3 Manpower Requirement Tables
C.4 Directorate of M.I.S.S. Request for Technical Assistance
C.5 Integrated Financial and Maintenance Management System
C.6 Employment Agreement, Project Director
C.7  Rural Road Rehabilitation Improvement and Maintenance Program
Terms of Reference
C.8 Job Description, Construction Maintenance Engineer
C.9 Terms of Reference, Consultant Project Engineer
C.10 Job Description, Construction Engineer
C.ll Terms of Reference, Task Force of the Planning Committee
C.12 Terms of Reference, Road Safety Improvement Project
C.13 Road User Cost Allocation Study/Request for Proposal
C.14 Job Description, Transport Economist
C.15 Terms of Reference, Environmental Impact Assessment Specialist
C.16 Employment Agreement, Project Director
C.17 Jamaican Training Seminar Programs and Budget Estimate
C.18 Project Summary and Status of Externally Financed Projects
C.19 Review of Hire Fund Scheme (MOC(W) Task Force, 1990]



IBRD 22580
+  mcd A,rports ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~mlo
MONLOTEGO
7~~~  J  A                                                                      =                                                                                     I^t S, MAI
|  |   Rotws                         0    5    It    5          2    -
Pa h  br                                                        c ,    5 r                                                                MINTENANCE PROJEC
-R--   nt6nrbonl ciedrzs xeNEERSO    I    15 io T5776;0NWAUGUST 199T



