Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16773
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING & MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3275-JM)
June 25, 1997
Environment and Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Jamaican Dollar (J$)
(April 1990)
US$1.00            =            J$7.00
J$ 1.00            =            US$0.14
(December 1996)
US$1.00            =            J$35.00
J$ 1.00                         US$0.03
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MOC(W)             Ministry of Construction (Works)
MLGW               Ministry of Local Government & Works
MPUT               Ministry of Public Utilities & Transport
PIOJ               Planning Institute of Jamaica
FYIIP              Five Year Infrastructure Investment Program
MLG                Ministry of Local Government
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
EU                 European Union
RIPMP              Road Infrastructure Planning & Maintenance Project
PSMP               Public Sector Modernization Project
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
NCHIP              North Coast Highway Project
Vice President:          Shahid Javed Burki, LAC
Director:                Paul Isenman, LA3
Manager:                 Eugene McCarthy, LA3EI
Task Manager:            Robin Hughes, LA3JM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATIONSUMMARY                                              i
PART I- PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT                        1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                         I
B. Achievement of Objectives                                  2
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation               9
D. Project Sustainability                                    12
E. Bank Performance                                          12
F. Borrower Performance                                      13
G. Assessment of Outcome                                     14
H. Future Operations                                         15
L Key Lessons Learned                                        15
PART H - STATISTICAL TABLES                                  17
APPENDIX
A: Aide Memoire
B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 3275-NM
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Road Infrastructure Planning
and Mainteance Project (RIPMP) in Jamaica, for which Loan 3275-JM in the amount of US$35
million equivalent was approved on April 12, 1990. The Loan Agreement was signed on
December 12, 1990 and made effective December 19, 1990.
The original loan closing date was June 30, 1996 but this was extended, at the request of
the Borrower, by six months to December 31, 1996. The loan was 100% disbursed, and the last
disbursement took place on May 28, 1997. It is expected that the Borrower will provide
supporting documentation in respect of the US$16,328.97 balance of the Special Account by June
30, 1997. Following the closure of the Bank financed Kingston Urban Transport Project (KUTP,
Loan 2389-JM) on September 30, 1993 certain incomplete activities were added to RIPMP. This
ICR thus reports on those activities carried out under RIPMP, including those activities carried
forward from KUTP.
T-he ICR was prepared by Mr. Robin Hughes (LA3JM) and reviewed by Messrs. Raj
Nallari (Acting Resident Representative LA3JM), Eugene McCarthy (Division Chief LA3EI) and
Maria Victoria Lister (Operations Officer, LA3DR) of the Latin America and the Caribbean
Region.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during routine supervision by the Resident Mission
during the latter half of 1996 and the final supervision mission was carried out in January 1997. It
is based on material on the project file and interviews conducted in Washington and Jamaica.
Project files were not available for KUTP as the project was being audited by OED. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by conducting an ex-post evaluation of a sample of road
subprojects financed under the loan, providing statistical data and a retrospective assessment of the
project and commenting on the draft ICR.






i
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 3275-JM
JAMAICA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Between 1965 and 1990, the Bank has been involved in six projects in the roads subsector in Jamaica.
The first and third highway projects were for detailed design and construction of main arterial roads. The
second, fourth and fifth highway projects focused on road maintenance. The sixth project, the Kingston Urban
Transport Project (1984) addressed upgrading and maintenance of urban roads combined with improvements
to public transport, and ran concurrent with the Road Ir&astructure Planning and Maintenance Project
(RIPMP) for two and a half years. In addition, the Public Administration Reform Project (PARP), 1984,
addressed the rationalization of ministerial functions which was to seriously impact on the efforts to reorganize
the Ministry of Construction (Works) (MOC(W) - subsequently reconstituted as the Ministry of Local
Government and Works in early 1995 and hereafter referred to as "the Ministry". Improvements were also
made to human resource management but this had limited sustainable impact on employment conditions at the
Ministry.
2.     The previous transport sector projects suffered in varying degrees from the lack of implementation
capacity within the Ministry and availability of counterpart funds. RIPMP sought to build upon the limited
improvements in institutional implementation capacity that had been achieved. RIPMP was conceived as part
of a US$302 million Five Year Infrastructure Investment Plan (FYIIP) designed to upgrade, and bring back to
a condition of maintainability after years of neglect, the nation's extensive road infrastructure, including rural
and urban roads, bridges, drainage facilities, and traffic signs, signals and markings. The project provided the
following: (i) support for the annual investment evaluation, prioritization, and implementation process; (ii)
coordination of technical assistance; (iii) facilitated the coordination of the various externally funded projects
in the Ministry; (iv) and financing those priority activities for which there was no alternative funding.
Project Objectives
3.    The primary objectives of the project were to: (i) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry
to plan, manage and maintain the road transport infrastructure in Jamaica in a cost effective manner; (ii)
improve the cost effectiveness of the Borrower's investments in its road transport sector; and (iii) improve road
safety. Following closure of the Bank financed Kingston Urban Transport Project (KUTP) in September 1993,
the scope of RIPMP was extended through inclusion of the following unfinished KUTP activities: a Transport
Sector Study, a highway upgrading feasibility study and rationalization of the bus franchise arrangements in
the Kingston Metropolitan Region (KMR). These activities were to assist the Government with formulation of
Transport Policy, identification of future investments for possible private sector involvement and to provide
for an adequate and efficient system of urban transport in the KMR.'
4.    The objectives were clearly stated, consistent with the Bank's and Government's sector policies,
realistic but relatively broad in focus. There were limited performance and impact indicators incorporated in
the project design which made the impact of the project difficult to assess. In execution, the strategies
developed to achieve the project objectives were simple and the project proved to be very flexible but of
relatively high risk due to the difficult fiscal environment that existed at the time.
1 Activities undertaken by the KUTP were reported on by ICR No. 14694, dated June 26, 1995.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was designed to facilitate achievement of its objectives by providing mechanisms and
resources to the Ministry through a program of: Institutional Strengthening, Training, Technical Assistance
and Studies - US$5.6 million (actual expenditure US$6.63 million); Eligible Infrastructure Investments -
US$25.5 million (actual expenditure US$27.1 million); Equipment Management and Spare Parts -
US$400,000 (actual expenditure US$1.26 million); and Unallocated - US$3.5 million (reallocated).
6.    Project outcome. Although technically sound, only a small number of the project objectives were
achieved due to a number of implementation constraints as listed below. The Ministry was only partially
reorganized and its Institutional Capacity received limited strengthening through the provision of technical
assistance resources, studies, training and the development of planning tools and mechanisms. Although
significantly different from that planned, a program of road and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation,
together with flood control activities, was implemented. An ex-post evaluation of a sample of road
maintenance subprojects (approximately 22% of the loan value) indicates that the investnents were generally
cost effective. However, it has not been possible to measure if improvements in operational and investment
cost effectiveness were made. Improvements in overall road safety were achieved but it is difficult to attribute
all of the gains made to the Road Safety Study initiated by the project. Limited improvements were made to the
Ministry's Equipment Management and Maintenance capabilities. The Transport Sector Study assisted the
Borrower with transport policy formulation but subsequent implementation of its recommendations to
rationalize the existing bus franchise arrangements did not provide an adequate and efficient system of urban
transport. The project has a high probability of maintaining the achievements generated by the Road Safety
component; however, the Sustainability of the Institutional Strengthening component and the Ministry's ability
to plan and manage the road network is less certain as it is very dependent on the priority the Borrower places
on attracting and retaining quality staff and developing mechanisms that will provide sufficient and timely
funds to finance the activities of the Ministry. Overall, outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, and sustainability
as unlikely.
7.    The project was implemented over a six year period and apart from the hiring of some of the Technical
Assistance (TA) consultants, none of the project activities were implemented as planned during project design.
Three years into implementation only 30 percent of the loan had been disbursed compared to the appraisal
estimate of 62 percent. After a six month extension of the closing date and a four month grace period the loan
was 100 percent disbursed. Five nain factors negatively affected project implementation: (i) fiscal constraints
and cumbersome administrative procedures which affected project financing, procurement and staffing; (ii)
frequent changes in senior management at the Ministry resulted in a lack of commitment to the reorganization
process; (iii) two major ministerial reorganizations during the life of the project; (iv) the shortage of
counterpart staff due to poor remuneration levels, and (v) the lack of a Project Coordinator for 18 months.
8.    Bank performance. Bank performance during the project cycle was generally unsatisfactory and
suffered frm deficiencies attributable to two main factors. First, the design of the project - which was
technicaly sound and in keeping with accepted practices of the time - did attempt to incorporate lessons
leamed from previous projects in the sector, namely that: (i) financing mechanisms necessary to maintain the
road network in an acceptable condition must be established; and (ii) the provision of adequate levels of
remuneration to attract qualified and experienced staff within the Ministry is essential. However, analysis of
the project perfonnance has revealed that the measures incorporated in the project design to address the issues
were inadequate. Second, changes in task management five times during the project negatively affected
implenientation. Performance during implemenation was unven: (i) obstacles were identified but underlying
constaints were not addressed, (ii) inputs were monitored but the project impact was ignored; and (iii)



ii
flexibility was demonstrated in responding to changing circumstances and priorities, sometimes to the
detrimet of the Ministry's ability to manage the project.
9.    Borrower performance. Borrower performance was weak overall during the course of the project.
The Ministry participated in the preparation phase and produced significant documentation in support of the
project design. Implementation performance, however, was generally unsatisfactory. Changes in senior
management and ministerial organizations resulted in a loss of focus and ownership of the project's objectives.
Inter-institutional coordination was weak, although it improved during the last 18 months of the project, as did
the pace of implementation. The Ministry's performance was limited by the shortage of counterpart staff. Due
to the Borrower's limited sucess in addressing the root cause of the problem - low levels of remuneration -
the Ministry resigned itself to over-utilizing the TA component of the project through a 260 percent increase in
staff months in order to raise its implementation capacity. It would appear that this type of approach has
reinforced the Ministry's dependency on foreign consultants and externally financed projects. This
dependency has seriously precluded the building of sustainable implementation capacity.
Future Operations and Key lessons Learnt
10.   The Bank's next planned investment project in the Transport Sector, namely the Road Infiastuctr
Development Project (RIDE) includes the major components identified in the two major feasibility
studies/preliminary designs that were financed by RIPMP, namely the upgrading of the Al, highway from
Spanish Town to St. Ann's Bay Highway and the Portmore/Kingston Causeway. The project, which is
estimated to require a loan of US$60 million, is in the Bank's pipeline for FY99. Procurement and
Institutional Capacity constraints are to be addressed in the Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP)
signed in October 1996. The maintenance of tertiary roads is to be addressed by the upcoming Parish
lifrastructure Project. RIDE is part of a larger initiative whereby the Bank is working closely with the Inter-
American Development Bank (1DB) and the European Union (EU) to promote sustainable highway
investment, maintenance and financing policies and practices for the road network.
11.   Seven key lessons emerged from the project: (i) project design must reflect the institutional capacity of
the implementing agency, mechanisms should be developed to address implementation constraints, prior to
committing financing, and any institutional reform process should not be dependent on individual personalities
for its successful implementation; (ii) while a project must be flexible enough to respond to changing
circumstances, priorities and the needs of the Borrower, significant changes or the addition of new activities
must be weighed against the associated risks, the demands on the Bank's technical/supervisory resources plus
its ability to supervise additional components that fall outside the scope of the original project; (iii) the
Borrower's project staff need to be held accountable for project performance, and implementing agencies that
cannot demonstrate adequate management and reporting ability should not be permitted to carry out extensive
programs of works and procurement of equipment through petty contracts; (iv) the complexity of Government
procurement procedures was denonsrted in this and other Bank financed projects and requires system-wide
rather than project-by-project solutions; (v) without substantial modification of the conditions of pay and
employment, the sustainability of administrative and institutional efforts is unlikely; (vi) specific project
outcome and impact measures, in addition to input and output indicators, should be established during design,
evaluated as part of the project, and consistently monitored to determine project achievement and impact; (vii)
successful project implementation requires commitment on the part of Government and effective, continued
and coordinated supervision by the Bank with minimal changes in task management.






I
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The primary objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Ministry to plan, manage and maintain the road transport infrastructure in Jamaica in a cost effective
manner; (b) improve the cost effectiveness of the Borrower's investments in its road transport sector; and
(c) improve road safety. Following closure of the Bank financed Kingston Urban Transport Project
(KUTP) in September 1993, the scope of RIPMP was extended through inclusion of certain unfinished
KUTP activities, namely, a Transport Sector Study, a highway upgrading feasibility study and
rationalization of the bus franchise arrangements in the Kingston Metropolitan Region (KMR). These
activities were to assist the Government with formulation of Transport Policy, the identification of future
investments for private sector involvement and to provide for an adequate and efficient system of urban
transport in the KMR.2
2.    These objectives were considered highly important to the continuing economic reform measures
underway at the time. They were consistent with the Bank's sector strategies and the Government's overall
policy of taking a more coordinated approach to external assistance in the highway planning and
maintenance subsector, improving investment efficiency, reducing budgetary expenditures and to continue
the privatization measures already being actively pursued for road transport services and other transport
modes.
3.    The objectives were clearly stated, realistic but relatively broad in focus. The strategies developed
to achieve the project objectives were relatively simple but the institutional reform process suffered from
major ministerial reorganizations and a lack of ownership by senior management in the Ministry. There
were also limited performance and impact indicators incorporated in the project design which made the
impact of the project difficult to assess. In execution the project proved to be very flexible but of relatively
high risk due to the difficult fiscal environment that existed at the time.
4.    The project was designed to facilitate achievement of these objectives by providing the mechanims
and resources to the Ministry through a program of Institutional Stngthenng, Training, Technical
Assistance and Studies - US$5.6 million (actual expenditure US$6.63 million); Eligible Infrastructure
Investments - US$25.5 million (actual expenditure US$27.1 million); Equipment Management and Spare
Parts - US$400,000 (actual expenditure US$1.26 million); and Unallocated - US$3.5 million (reallocated).
The fact that the Infrastructure Investments were part of a Five Year Infrastructure Investment Program
(FYIIP) of road transport sector projects -- financed by the Government and external agencies - gave the
Borrower the opportunity, and hence flexibility, to regularly reassess priorities in a time of high inflation,
devaluing local currency and fiscal stringency. Quick response to damage caused by natural disasters, for
example major flooding, was accommodated within the project. In addition the Bank recognized the fiscal
constraints that were adversely impacting on implementation and reduced the amount of counterpart
funding required.
5.    Incorporation of the KUTP activities, and an additional implementing agency, complicated the
management of the RIPMP and diverted financial and human resources from the Ministry to the Ministry
of Public Utilities and Transport (MPUT). Due to the politically sensitive and risky nature of urban public
transport in Jamaica the bus franchise rationalization activities were probably not realistic in the context of
a private sector with limited management capacity, limited access to affordable financing and a
2 Activities undertaken prior to the closure of the KUTP were reported by ICR No. 14694, dated June 26, 1995.



2
Government not prepared to allow economic fares to be charged for social and political reasons.
Implementation has been extremely demanding of the MPUT and as a result of its recent unsatisfactory
experience the Government is in the process of reformulating its Urban Transport policy.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    The project only partially achieved its primary objective of strengthening the institutional capacity
of the Ministry but it has not been possible to quantify if there have been any improvements in the cost
effctiveness of the Borrower's operations or investments in the road transport sector. However, the
objective of improving road safety was achieved. The subsequently added activities of assisting the
Government with the formulation of Transport Policy and the identification of future investments were
partially achieved. The provision of an adequate and efficient system of urban transport in the KMR was
not achieved and there is a low probability that this will occur in the near future without major
restructuring of the system.
7.    The project specified minimum levels of annual investment in road maintenance to be financed
through the central budget, as was the accepted practice at the time of project appraisal, but due to fiscal
constraints and a shift in emphasis from maintenance to rehabilitation in the first three years of the project,
the minimum levels proved difficult for the Government to meet. By today's standards the project's lack of
sector policy objectives that relate to the sustainable financing mechanisms necessary to maintain the road
network in an acceptable condition would not be appropriate. Little systematic or sustainable effort was
made by the Borrower to overcome the lack of availability of counterpart funds for road maintenance but
since mid 1996 there has been increased interest expressed by the Borrower in the use of mechanisms such
as Dedicated Road Maintenance Funds. The lack of specific outcome, performance and impact indicators
for this project made it very difficult to assess the cost effectiveness of the Ministry's planning,
management and maintenance operations. Based on an ex-post sample evaluation of the periodic
maintenance activities it would appear that these were cost-effective investments but it is not possible to
establish if there has been an increase in cost effectiveness over time due to the project. The lack of
comprehensive and detailed reporting by the Ministry and the extensive use of Statements of Expenditure
(SOE) procedures for disbursement - approximately 53 percent of all disbursements were carried out using
SOEs - make it impossible to quantify, and hence assess the impact of all of the physical investments
financed by this loan, particularly relating to the routine maintenance and rehabilitation of roads and
bridges done by petty contracts.
Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of the Ministry (estimated to be 6% of base project costs)
8.    The inability of the Ministry to carry out its responsibilities on a timely basis in the past, in
additon to the lack of timely counterpart funds, has historically resulted in numerous delays and generally
poor performance in respect of externally funded projects. The project was designed to build on the
technical and managerial expertise developed in the past and concentrated on developing the institutional
organization and ability to manage a multi-year public sector program.
9.    Reorganization of the Ministry. The target date for reorganization, May 1991, was not met due
to delays caused by the bureaucratic process involved a major restructuring of the ministries first in March
1992 and then January 1995, and a lack of commitment on the part of the Ministry. A partial first
reorganization along the lines envisaged in the design of the project was not effected until early 1993 when
the Directorate of Major Projects assumed responsibility for planning, becoming the Directorate of Major
Projects and Planning (DMPP). There were no other significant changes to the organization. The rnmainder
of the changes identified in the project design were not made for two main reasons; (i) ministerial
reorganiztions resulted in an increased scope of activities that the Ministry did not feel could be managed



3
under the proposed arrangements; (ii) changes in senior nmanagenent resulted in a loss of ownership for the
proposed reorganization.
10.   Although there has been some improvement, it is still not clear that the Directorates represent the
mission and focus of the Ministry and the planned elimination of the various independent project entities
has only been partially achieved. At the close of the project there were three project units within the Works
section of the Ministry (reduced from six) and one within the Local Government section of the Ministry.
With the exception of sections of the North Coast Highway Project (NCH1P) unit, all units now report
through one directorate or another, which has improved planning and accountability. Some progress has
been made in addressing the lack of implementation capacity through the use of external services for tasks
such as design, drafting and supervision of much of the capital works program.
11.   Development of mechanisms to improve planning and to coordinate implementation of
externally funded projects. The project assisted with the development and implementation of the FYIIP,
which is a five year rolling program of investments, including those not financed by the Bank, scheduled
according to priority based on their economic ranking. The system appears to have been adopted as an
integral part of the planning process although it would appear that the analysis is not as rigorous or
comprehensive as originally intended. All projects, before inclusion in the FYIIP, were to have been
subject to environmental analysis, the fomnat of which was to have been developed under this project but
this was not done. Environmental issues are currently dealt in accordance with Government guidelines and
those of the individual lending institutions, but these issues are not dealt with as part of the planning
process, typically resulting in delays in implementation.
12.   To facilitate coordination the Government was to hold an Economic Infrastructure Review meeting
of the active external funding agencies not later than November 30 of each year. After a number of abortive
attempts the first, and last, of these meetings was held on June 9, 1993, 19 months later than scheduled.
Although the meeting was considered a useful exercise by the Ministry, the level of effort required to
organize it and prepare the necessary papers led to its discontinuation.
13.   A Flood Water Control Study, involving a comprehensive investigation and resulting in
recommendations for flood water management in flood prone areas was to have been completed by March
1993. It was to specifically address development criteria, policy, and physical investment for inclusion in
the FYIIP necessary to mitigate the economic and personal losses due to flooding. Initial preparations were
made to appoint consultants to carry out the study but, due to a parallel initiative being undertaken by the
Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP), this was never started. As a result, none of the specific objectives
of this component were achieved under this project. The ODP study was of limited scope and did not
address all of the issues required.
14.   Technical Assistance. In an effort to overcome the shortage of qualified and experienced
technical personnel the project made provisions for 108 local and 138 foreign staff months. It is estimated
that 38 local and 498 foreign staff months were actually financed by this project. TA consultants worked
as line staff within the various Directorates and project units so as to ensure maximum benefit to the
Ministry in technology transfer and counterpart training. The intention being that on completion of the
project the counterpart staff would be able to carry out the duties previously undertake by the TA
consultants. The consultants appeared to have easily been absorbed into the daily activities of the Ministy
and they significantly improved the Ministry's implementation capacity, fully achieving and possibly
exceeding the expectations of the project design, albeit only in the short term.
15.   The bulk of the TA was provided through two teams of consultants assigned to the Planning Unit
and the Traffic and Road Maintenance Divisions for the duration of the project. Although a number of



4
cotepart staff have benefited from working with the TA consultants there has been a steady tum over in
Ministry staff and a significant amount of implementation capacity has been lost as a result. It is
anticipated that once the institutional refomis proposed under the Bank-financed Public Sector
Modernization Project (PSMP - signed in October 1996) are implemented a proportion of the previously
employed staff will be attracted back to the Ministry. Closure of the project at the end of 1996 highlighted
the lack of residual implementation capacity as the Ministry elected to retain approximately 60% of the
consultants previously financed by the project. The heavy reliance on the consultants was also confirmed
by the amount of staff months used, compared to the amount planned during project preparation, an
increase of 260 percent. It is too early to say what the long term impact of the TA has been but there are
indications that the effect has been positive but not sustainable.
16.   Training. This component of the loan was designed to complement the reorganization of the
Ministry and was an integral part of the TA. It was to provide extensive training of staff to strengthen the
performance capabilities of the Ministry and to strengthen the Ministry's Training Unit. The Training Unit
received minimal strengthening and its capacity was limited by the availability of staff and the lack of
budgetary allocations to support its functions. Continuous on the job training was carried out by the TA
consultants in numerous technical fields but its effectiveness was limited due to the shortage of counterpart
staff to train. The project's schedule for training indicated that 17 senior staff members were to participate
in overseas courses and study tours, the information available indicates that 15 were actually trained.
Overall the SAR estimated that training would be provided for a total of 8900 participants, of which 7000
were to be private individuals contracted to work in the parishes under the "lengthman" program. No
official data is available on the numbers actually trained or the training's impact, but indications are that
the 800 lengrthen that were employed by the Ministry received informal and unstructured on the job
training from supervisory staff.
17.   Acquisition and utilization of equipment for the Ministry to facilitate management of the road
subsector. 10 computers, related equipment and software were acquired through the project and there are
strong signs that the Ministry has fully integrated them into daily usage by the organization. Discussions
with Ministry staff indicated that due to the increased usage of cornputers in the organization as a whole
there are now serious shortages of equipment. These shortages are to be addressed through the Public
Sector Modernization Project (PSMP) which was signed in October 1996, of which the Ministry is one of
the beneficiaries. In addition, 5 pick up trucks, 2 station wagons and 5 "4-wheel drive" vehicles were
purchased through the project to facilitate the mobility of the project staff and consultants whilst
implementing the various project components. It would appear that the acquisition of both the computer
equipment and vehicles has had a positive impact on the Ministry's ability to manage the road subsector.
Cost Effectiveness of Borrowers Investments.
18.    A Road User Cost Allocation study was to have been carried out by August 1993 and this was to
have made recommendations for changes in road financing taxes and user fee structures that would make
payments of the various vehicle classes or user groups more representative of their respective
responsibilities or, more compatible with Governmental economic/social policy. Due to the Ministry's
changing priorities at the time and changes in management at the Ministry this study, as designed, was not
carried out. Instead, the TA consultants developed Vehicle Operation Cost (VOC) and Economic Viability
(EV) models, based on HDM-III, and by April 1993 these were in use. The work undertaken by the TA
consultants served to raise the awareness of officials within the Ministry of the benefits of proper financial
analysis of projects and assisted greatly with the generation of the information required to fully utilize the
FYIIP as a planning tool.



5
19.   An IDB commissioned study, completed in 1996, confirmed the project design's assumption that
there is significant cross subsidization taking place in the road subsector. The study indicated that the ratio
of "Revenue" to "Road Cost" for motor cars and heavy trucks were 1.8:1 and 0.2:1 respectively. This
combined with the tendency to overload trucks and the limited ability of the Government to enforce the
current maximum axle load regulations is resulting in an uneven distribution of the benefits that are derived
from routine and periodic maintenance investments. These benefits were estimated by the Planning Unit in
1993 to be a reduction of an average of approximately 25 percent of VOCs due to reductions in road
roughness. The SAR estimated that the overall EIRR of the project to be in excess of 40 percent. The
Ministry does not use the VOC/EC models for retrospective monitoring of projects but this was requested
for a selected number of subprojects financed by this loan (approxinately 22 percent of the loan value) and
these are itemized in Table 9. Of the investments analyzed an overall EIRR of 30 percent was achieved but
two of the eleven subprojects had EIRRs less than the minimum 12 percent required by the SAR. It is
anticipated that future revised traffic management arrangements will result in an increased EIRR for one of
these subprojects.
Infrastructure improvements (estimated to be 90% of base project costs).
20.   Capital Investments/New Sub-Projects. Six highway upgrading sub-projects were identified
during project preparation for Bank financing. Due to the lack of counterpart funds, a shift in emphasis to
road rehabilitation, and the fact that three of the subprojects were absorbed into the NCHIP, none of these
subprojects were constructed during the course of the project. A further seven highway upgrading sub-
projects were added to the FYIIP for funding by the Bank but only one of these was constructed.
21.   Rehabilitation - The sole rehabilitation subproject identified during project design and actually
constructed was a major hydraulic structure, the Sandy Gully Spillway (part of the Flood Water Control
Program). The Bank also financed the emergency repairs and rehabilitation of the PortmorelKngton
Bridge and its approach roads - a major arterial route serving the dormitory community of Portmore which
had to be closed for five months due to structural deterioration of the bridge - and the reconstruction of
Spencer James Drive so as to facilitate improvements to the major bus terminus at Half Way Tree.
Shortly after the project commenced, in January 1991, heavy rains and the consequent flooding caused
extensive damage to the road network and associated structures. The Ministry developed a program of
road maintenance and rehabilitation, the Special Road Rehabilitation Project (SRRP), which involved 460
km of tertiary roads serving rural communities. In May 1993 heavy flooding caused further serious
damage to many roads and using a combination of force account and existing contracts, some 230 km of
rehabilitation work were actually completed.
22.   Routine Road and Bridge Maintenance Program. The Bank financed a significant amount of
work involving repairs to bridges, road patching, repairs to sidewalks, cleaning and repairing drains but
due to the deficiencies in reporting by the Ministry and the extensive use of SOEs it is not possible to
quantify exactly how much was achieved.
23.   Periodic Road Maintenance Program. A program of asphaltic resealing in Kingston, scheduled
for March 1992, was delayed until April 1993, again due to lack of counterpart funding, and a total of
approximately 65 kilometers was resealed. The absence of a comprehensive road condition survey made it
difficult for the Ministry to plan a structured program of periodic maintemance, so it was not until mid 1994
that any significant work was initiated. Due to lack of counterpart fimding, contracts for the rehabilitation
and overlay of 85 kilometers of rural and urban roads were not signed until May 1995 and the works were
completed by September 1996.



6
24.   Flood water controL The lack of a Flood Water Study meant that no clear strategy or pipeline of
projects for financing were developed. Consequently, the subsequent additions to the progran were
developed in response to emergencies and were not as a result of a systematic and comprehensive planning
process. The additions to the program financed by the Bank included reconstuction of box culvert brdges,
rver training works, the purchase and installation of gabion baskets and the purchase of 10 Bailey Bridges
plus spare parts and training.
25.   Traffic Management The TA consultants assigned to the Traffic Management Division (TMD),
through the provision of traffic and highway design/supervision engineering services, made significant
contributions to the Ministry's program of highway and junction improvements throughout the KMR and
served to raise the general standards of traffic management in the Ministry. A total of 7 major traffic
management schemes were designed and implemented, a further 6 were designed but not implemented and a
total of 7 highway improvements were designed of which 5 were constructed. Only one of these civil works
was partially financed by the project. In addition, programs of signal equipment upgrading, carriageway
markings and sign replacement were undertaken. Overall there has been noticeable improvement in the
KMR's road environment as a result. A computerized traffic planning model for the KMR was developed
following recommendations from the KUTP but delays in initiating and completing the model resulted in
the recent program of junction improvements being designed without the benefit of the traffic model. The
implementation of the TMD's activities was severely hampered by the lack of counterpart funds and the
shortages of technical staff. Of particular concem now is the continuing lack of a qualified traffic
ineering staff to utilize the traffic model as intended.
Equipment Maintenance Program (estimated to be 2% of base project costs)
26.   The Hire Fund Scheme in the Ministry has been in existence since 1976, when it was created as a
pilot scheme, as recmmended by the Bank financed Second Highway Project. This fund was to provide for
recoverng the costs of owning, maintaining and running a fleet of construction equipment by means of hire
charges to the fleet users. During the late 1980s the Hire Fund had been starved of funds due to weaknesses
in the organization's management and its inappropriate revenue generation mechanisms. As a result, the
project aimed to help set up and assist with implementation of a new equipment management system, to
help develop contracts for equipment rental and lease, and to develop a mechanism to increase
accountability.
27.   Restructuring was to be complete by January 1992 but little progress had been made by then. As
requind, an Interim Board of Directors was appointed to manage the Hire Fund and proposals were
requested of local consultants to provide technical assistance to assist with the reorganization. In October
1992, a Cabinet decision was made to privatize the Hire Fund and the employment of consultants was put
on hold. The privatization never materialized and although appointed, the Interim Board of Directors never
met. In February 1994, a Mechanical Management Specialist was engaged to carry out a review of the hire
rates and recommend actions required to restructure the scheme. The final report was presented in March
1994 and most of the recommendations relating to hire charges are now being implemented. Other
activities that were to be financed by this component of the loan were the provision of spare parts and
equipment. Due to poor reporting by the Ministry and the extensive use of SOEs it is not possible to
comment on the impact of this procurement. However, the extensive delays and lack of progress with the
institutional reform process make it unlikely that there has been any significant positive impact as a result
of this investment.
Road Safety Program (estimated to be 2% of project costs).



7
28.   In order to reduce road traffic accidents a Traffic Signal ManagementRoad Safety study was to be
carried out. By mid 1992 the Borrower decided that the Road Safety Study would be financed by the
Swedish Goverment who had offered free technical assistance resources and that local costs of the study
would be jointly financed by the Bank and the Govermment. The offer of specialist technical assistance,
combined with the excellent work being carried out by the consultants in the TMD, resulted in the
Borrower deciding to remove the Traffic Signal Management section from the study. The final report of the
road safety study was published in December 1993, eight months behind schedule. The study proved to be
an extremely useful tool for the Ministry and served as a catalyst for the provision of additional resources
for the setting up of a Road Safety Unit within the Ministry in March 1994. The unit is charged with the
task of promotng road safety through a program of public education utilizing the printed and electronic
media plus a number of other initiatives identified by the study. The study, which appears to have the
support of the Govermnent, also incorporated a three phase, time and resource bound program of activities
that were directed towards a sustainable approach to accident reduction and an overall improvement in the
safety of the road environment.
VEHICLEI PERSONAL ACCIDENTS STATISTICS3
Year        No. of Persons     No. of Persons      Total No. of   No. of Vehicles
Killed            Injured          Accidents      Certified Fit
1989             400               3,037             6,608           98,857
1990             na                  na                na            105,401
1991             444                 na                na              na
1992             428               3,673             8,045           119,313
1993             434               3,253             8,247           111,438
1994             385               3,055             8,574           125,121
1995             367               3,044             7,379           135,059
1996             342               3,031             6,860          157,610**
* For corresponding FY, actual No. on the road
estimated to be approximately twice this amount
** Extrapolated from figures up to December 1996
29.   The study estimated that the accident risk in Jamaica is approximately 15 times higher than in the
USA based on a fatality per 100,000 car relationship. Although it is difficult to draw firm conclusions as to
the impact of the Road Safety study component of the loan on the prevalence of road accidents in general, it
can be surmised that the collective effort of the Government and the Private Sector has had a positive
impact in the form of a reduction in the number of road accidents and fatalities. The Road Safety Study
esfimated that road accidents in 1991 cost Jamaica approximately US$38 million (not including "pain and
suffering" costs). The available accident statistics indicate that, overall, accidents were reduced by 15%
from 1991 to 1996 - a saving to the country of approximately US$28.5 million over the five year period,
or US$5.7 million per annum.
KUTP activities that were added to RIPMP
30.   Transport Sector Study. The study was carried out by TA consultants over a seven month period
commencing March 1993. It evaluated and recommeded actions and investments in each of the four
transport subsectors that the MPUT is responsible for (marine, rail, air and public transport) suitable for
3Sorces (a) Economic and Social Surveys, (PIOJ) (b) the Island Traffic Authority (c) Road Safety Unit



8
local and external financing. The recommendations of the report were to be used in the preparation of a
proposed Transport Sector Loan which was, at that tune, in the Bank's FY94 lending program. The
Transport Sector Loan did not materialize  in the form envisaged but from the study came the
following reacmendations on policy and administration: (a) proposals for strngthnng the staff of
MPUT and the Transport Authority; (b) transport services should be provided by the private sector,
without subsidy from the Government; (c) Government should maintain a business environment conducive
to encouraging long term private investment in the transport sector; and (d) the role of effective planning in
reducing or managing the demand for transport should be recognized.
31.    Resulting from these recommendations came the bus franchise rationalization, the Transport
Authority was partially strengthened (by the Government), MPUT was strengthened through the provision
of 32 staff months of TA under RIPMP, the Goverment divested the national airline, is in the process of
divesting the national railway company and is investigating ways of privatizing the Island Traffic
Authority. While it is too early to say if the divestment initiatives have resulted in a significant reduction of
the Government's budgetary expenditure, there is a high probability that this will be the case in the long
term. There is little indication, however, that progress has been made in recogning the role of effective
planning in reducing the demand for transport.
32.   Feasibility studies One of the activities transferred to the Ministry from the MPUT was a
feasibility study for a toll road from Spanish Town to St. Ann's Bay. Additionally, the Transport Sector
Study, as described in paragraph 30, recommended that the Portmore/Kingston Causeway should be
upgraded as a high priority. In September 1993 the Bank agreed that both subproject studies could be
financed by RIPMP but calls for proposals were not made by the Ministry until August 1994. Contracts
with the consultants were not signed until early 1996. Draft final reports were presented to the Ministry in
November 1996 and the output from these studies will be used to help prepare the Bank's next Transport
Sector project.
33.   Kingston Metropolitan Region Franchise Rationalization. Bus operations in the KMR have
been provided by the private sector since 1983. Ninety percent of the fleet, however, was owned by
proprietors with only one bus. Attempts to encourage a national cooperative did not significantly reduce
the fragmentation in operation or the irregular and unreliable service. In order to reintroduce discipline to
the provision of urban bus services a rationalization process was designed and implemented under the
guidance of a steering committee comprising members of the Govermnent, transport interests and user
groups. The operation of the franchises was to be enforced by the Transport Authority which was to be
financed from revenue generated from franchise fees.
34.   Prequalification documents for the franchises were sent out to interested parties in June, 1994 and
bids were received in August, 1994. Due to the Government's objections to the proposed fare structure
(based on distance traveled as opposed to the number of stages traveled) and unwillingness to increase bus
fares to the levels proposed by the TA consultants, the fare tables were removed from the Invitations to Bid
at the last minute although reference was made to a forthcoming fare table. Provision was made for a
direct subsidy if a fare table consistent with commercial viability of franchise operations was not
introduced. In spite of the fact that the tender process was compromiseu, and it was evident that none of the
applicants met the required criteria, particularly in respect of their ability to directly control the operations
of a sufficiently large stock of vehicles, the Government decided to proceed with selection of franchisees.
Performance bonds were to be produced by the successful bidders but this requirement was relaxed before
contracts were signed in January 1995 and the new franchise arrangements went into operation in April
1995.



9
35.   Without an economically viable fare table and demonstrable income stream the franchise holders
were not able to obtain finance from commercial banks in order to expand their fleet and improve the level
of service. Recognizing these constraints, enforcement of many of the franchise conditions were held in
abeyance and the Transport Authority was largely impotent as a regulatory agency in the KMR. The poor
service levels generated much widespread public discontent and the deaths of two school children in bus
related accidents resulted in the Government purchasing 40 vehicles to be leased to the franchisees at
favorable rates in lieu of subsidy. These buses were to be operated by the franchise holders exclusively as
school buses during the school peak periods and they will ultimately become the property of the
franchisees. Direct and indirect subsidy (the provision of buses) payments totaling US$4.4 million have
been made by the Govenmment but little improvement in the standard of service is evident
36.   By March 1997, one company was on the verge of bankruptcy and the other two were in financial
trouble. Realizing the shortcomings of the current system, the Government agreed to accept some of the
responsibilities previously assigned to the franchisees, namely; (a) the construction and leasing to the
franchisees of fully equipped depots; (b) purchasing and leasing to the franchisees new buses; and (c) the
provision of training for bus crews and mechanics. A Government owned company was created for the
purchasing, insuring and leasing of the buses and depots and coordinating the training efforts. Towards the
end of 1996 the Government contracted with vendors for the supply of 150 Mercedes Benz buses and 120
Volvo buses for a total of US$40.78 million. Delivery was expected to commence in April 1997.
Government intervention as direct supplier of terminals, depots, vehicles, training, etc. has weakened the
business control of private sector management and there are indications that the buses on order do not meet
the requirements of the franchise holders.
37.   The objectives of the franchising system are not being met. The number of buses and available
seats in the system has actually decreased by approx7imately 5000 (approximately 25 percent), - some were
diverted into a parallel systern of "Executive Class" buses that operate outside of the Government
controlled fare structure - and the level and quality of service does not appear to have improved
significantly from that which was in existence prior to the introduction of the franchise system in 1995. The
peak load factors, for both low and high demand routes, have reduced marginally from 2.0 and 3.0 in 1995
to 1.8 and 2.7 in early 1997 respectively. The 1984 KUTP project design set load factor targets of 1.0 and
1.05 respectively but these were not relevant during the franchise rationalization due to the completely
different implementation environment experienced. Due to a lack of information it is not possible to
comment on the operating costs per passenger or the foreign exchange needs for vehicle operation. For the
same reasons it is not possible to determine if budgetary expenditures for urban transport by the
Government have been reduced as expected.
NUMBER OF BUSES AND BUS SEATS IN SERVICE IN KMR4
Year            Overall Numbers Licensed          Overall Numbers in
______________ Operation
No. of Buses       No. of Seats     No. of Buses   No. of Seats
1993             826              23,853              na               na
1994             728              21,013             630            16,380
1995*            835               23,842             725            20,300
1998             753              21,084             500            14,000
1997             845              23,660             541            15,148
* Year Franchise Rationalization took place
4 Sources: (a) Economic and Social Surveys, (PIOJ) (b) the Island Traffic Authority



10
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
38.   The project was implemented over a six year period and apart from the hiring of some of the
Technical Assistance (TA) consultants, none of the project activities were implemented as planned during
project design. Three years into implementation only 30 percent of the loan had been disbursed compared
to the appraisal estimate of 62 percent. The loan was fully disbursed after a six month extension of the
closing date and a four month grace period. Five main factors negatively affected project implementation:
(i) fiscal consaints and cumbersome administrative procedures which affected project financing,
procurement and staffing; (ii) changes in senior management at the Ministry resulted in a lack of
commitment to the reorganization process; (iii) two major ministerial reorganizations during the life of the
project; (iv) the shortage of counterpart staff due to poor remuneration levels, and (v) the lack of a Project
Coordinator for 18 months.
39.   Factors not generally subject to Govermnent control. During the course of the project there
were two significant flood events that caused major damage to the road network resulting in a diversion of
scarce financial and humnan resources to address the damage. The periodic maintenance programs of work
carried out under this project served to identify the fact that the majority of local contracting organizations
have limited contract management and supervisory capacity, and are not familiar with intemational forms
of contracts.
40.   Factors generally subject to Government control. Two major institutional reforms involving the
Ministry occurred which served to delay and disrupt the proposed reorganization of the Ministry. In March
1992 the Ministry of Construction (Works) (MOC(W)) was amalgamated with the Ministry of
Construction (Housing) to form the Ministry of Construction (MOC) and as a result the personneL
administrative, information departments, and to some extent the technical departments were merged. A
signifcant number of technical staff were made redundant from the Ministry as a result of this merger,
further weakening its technical and managerial capacity. In January, 1995 the Ministry of Local
Government merged with the MOC to form the Ministry of Local Government and Works. At the same
time Housing was split from the MOC and transferred to the Ministry of Environment.
41.   A difficult fiscal environment combined with cumbersome budgetary and other administrative
procedures disrupted the project implementation significantly. Insufficient and delayed budgetary
allocations, resulting from Government's stabilization program - and IMF conditionalities - affected the
project during the first four years of implementation. From September 1991, when foreign exchange
liberalization took place, up to the end of 1995 there was a steady devaluation against the US$ totaling
approxinately 270 percent, and inflation peaked in 1991 at 80 percent per annum and then declined
steadily to 15 percent at the end of 1996.
42.   The unavailability of local counterpart funds was compounded by the Government's requirement
that all expenditure, whether locally or externally financed, must be 100 percent prefinanced through the
budget. In addition the Special Account was only used to pay foreign suppliers of equipment, foreign
consultants which were 100 percent reimbursable or any transaction that required foreign exchange
payments. The uneven flow of funds from the MOF, partly due to the fiscal constraints and pardy due to
the system of warrant allocations, resulted in the delays in signing of contracts and payments to civil works
contractors. Government's requirement that all contracts above relatively low thresholds be submitted to
Cabinet for approval, combined with uncertainty regarding the availability of funds, also contributed to
significant delays in contrat signing. General Consumption Tax (GCT) rates rose from 10% to 12.5% in
June 1993 and subsequently 15% towards the end of 1995 at which time construction costs became eligible
for GCT charges, contributing to the overall increased costs of construction.



11
Changes in Exchange Rate and Infnation
90 
80 1' - --l     l                  --E- 1        -i    i-  ''
co  8    0   --------  --------,----------------      .......l.,  ...,    .  , ..,       ,, i ., ,,'---- ._. ......... ,.1
\ S , _,, ,,,,,,l,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, , ,,,,, ,,, 2 8 i, , -\- -------!----- -- ----- -- -----------
70         ------  - -------------- ------ . 1-
-   I  -.               I          I ~~~~~~~~~~~-*Ave. Ex raw J$
5     0   -  - ------------- ------------------t----- - ----   ,--- --T--    -t-
40M---------- -      .  . ... .f.. -. ., .              .   .., ,           I on ra.
0______ _
0~
End of Pedod (Calendar Yav
43.    The difficult fiscal environment combined with the lack of budgetary support in the Transport
Sector and uncertainty regarding the availability of funds made it very difficult for the Ministry to plan
large programs of work, hence none of the local contracting companies invested in new plant and
equipment. As a result, the local road maintenance contracting companies were inadequately prepared
when in 1995 fivq major overlay contracts were advertised. Limited interest was also shown by foreign
companies as the large cost of mobilizing plant and equipment could not be justified without the prospect of
future programs of work being available.
44.    Project implementation (and subsequent operation) was hindered by difficulties in recruiting
qualified and experienced counterpart staff. The shortages of staff were due mainly to the low levels of
remuneration compared to the Private Sector, uncomfortable working conditions and limited career
prospects. By late 1995, the Works section of the Ministry had 370 technical posts, of which 172 positions
were vacant. Wages in the Public Sector are controlled by central Government. Although the Borrower
has acknowledged the need for adequate levels of remuneration to attract and retain experienced and
qualified staff it faces both internal and external pressures to reduce its size and the associated recurrent
expenditure. The Government's Administrative Reform Program addressed compensation policy and
aimed for salary parity (85 percent) with private sector equivalents for management and technical positions,
but had limited sustainable impact on employment conditions in the Public Sector as any gains were
quickly eroded by inflation. Progress has been slow to develop the linkage between productivity and
appropriate levels of remuneration.
45.    The use of Project Units for project implementation allows the Ministry to pay enhanced wages to
the project staff assigned to the units and as a result there has been a tendency to over- utilize the project
unit fonmat. Their use creates resentment amongst non-project staff and results in a drain of competent
staff from line positions to the project units. This tendency is reinforced by the donor community who, due
to the lack of implementation capacity within the Ministry, prefer to have their projects implemented by
discrete project teams working only on their project. By the end of the project approximately 35 members
of Ministry staff were assigned to the RIPMP in various project units and these staff have now either
reverted back to their original posts, been assigned to other projects or made redundant.
46.    Following several years of planning and deliberating the Government committed itself to resolving
the urban transport issues through introduction of the bus franchise rationalization within a very short time
frame. Delaying implementation of the process, when it became apparent that the fare structure and levels



12
of fares proposed by the consultants were not acceptable, was not considered a politically viable option.
The franchise arrangements should have been redesigned with a clear and transparent subsidy mechanism
based on more realistic standards of service and appropriate fare structure.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
47.   Notwithtanding the project's efforts to strengthen implementation capacity, the managmet of the
Ministry suffered frorn a situation whereby semior management were consistently caught up in the day to
day activities of the organization with few niddle managers to delegate to. The end result of this was that
senior management had little time to plan and important decisions relating to project activities were often
deferred. The Ministry took advantage of the flexibility of the project combined with the provision of
substantial TA resources to circumvent the key issues of adequate remuneration and staffing levels which
were not under their control. There are indications that, following closure of the project, subsequent
projects will continue the Ministry's dependency on externally financed projects for the provision of short-
term implementation capacity.
48.   Ministry staff identified that, in addition to the lack of reliable and adequate financing, the lack of a
complete and current inventory/condition survey of the road network was a major obstacle to the planning
and financing of a sustainable road maintenance prograrm. It was not until September 1992 that an
extensive condition survey of the main road network was comnissioned and this information was used to
prepare road maintenance programs for inclusion in the FYIIP. A Dedicated Road Conservation Fund
Report, dated November 1993, proposed fundamental changes to the way in which road maintenance is
financed. These proposals were presented to the Ministry of Finance but they were not acceptable at the
time. This initiative is again being pursued by the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
49.   The project has a high probability of maintaining the achievements generated by the Road Safety
cornponent as the Government has dmonshat  its commitnent to achieving its target of reducing the
number of road accidents by 20 percent over a five year period comnencing in 1994. However, the
sustainability of the institutional strengthening component and the Ministry's ability to plan and manage the
road network in a cost effective and efficient manner is much less certain as it is dependent on the priority
the Government places on attactng and retaining quality staff and developing mechanisms that will
provide sufficient, and timely fiuds to finance the activities of the Ministry. It is anticipated that recent
developments in the decentralization of responsibility for the maintenance of the tertiary road network from
the Ministry to the Parishes, under the Local Government Reform Program, will reduce some of the
pressure on the Ministry's implementation capacity. The changes made under the equipment management
program, although minimal, have a reasonable probability of Sustainability.
50.   The urban transport activities carried out under the RIPMP have a low probability of
Sustainability and it is unlikely that improvements can be effected to the existing franchise arrangements
that would improve its Sustainabiity without mnajor readjustnents. The increased level of Government
intervention in the sector, although not explicitly stated, is clearly targeted towards a more centralized
approach and possible exclusion of the private sector in the long term if performance levels are not raised.
Damage has been done to the Government's credibility and it is unlikely, at least in the short term, that the
private sector will make the necessary substantial investments in order to raise performance levels. Due to
the current fiscal constraints it is not certain that the Government will have sufficient resources to make the
kinds of investments necessary to create and run a Government owned urban transport system.



13
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
51.   Project identification, preparation and appraisaL The design of the project - which was
technically sound and in keeping with accepted practices of the time - did attempt to incorporate lessons
learned from previous projects in the sector, namely that: (i) financing mechanisms necessary to maaintin
the road network in an acceptable condition must be established; and (ii) the provision of adequate levels of
remuneration to attract qualified and experienced staff within the Ministry is essential. However, analysis
of the project performance has revealed that the measures incorporated in the project design to address
these issues were inadequate. The eighteen month period between identification and appraisal did not
adversely impact on implementation of the project. However, the eight month gap between appraisal and
signing of the loan agreement was a period when inflation was rising rapidly and this adversely impacted on
the cost estimates used at appraisal. During preparation few relevant output, performance and impact
indicators were specified, the emphasis was more on specifying implementation targets such as the dates for
provision of key staff members and when reports should be forwarded to the Bank.
52.   Appraisal of the project correctly identified the lack of counterpart funds as a mnajor risk to the
successful implementation of the project. It did not, however identify the possibility of substantial
reorganization of the ministerial system that took place in 1992 as part of the Government's Administrative
Reforn Program (supported by the Bank financed PARP, which closed in June 1988), that there would be
significant bureaucratic delays involved in reorganizing the Ministry's internal structure, or that changes to
senior management would result in a loss of commitment to the change process. Overall Bank performance
is rated as marginally satisfactory.
53.   Supervision. Although supervision appeared to be satisfactory in the early stages of the project,
the high turnover of task mangers, five in total, resulted in a lack of continuity that adversely impacted on
the quality of the Bank's supervision efforts. Performance during implenentation was uneven: (i) obstacles
were identified but underlying constraints not addressed; (ii) inputs were monitored but the project impact
was ignored; and (iii) flexibility was demonstrated in responding to changing circumstances and priorities,
sometimes to the detriment of the Ministry's ability to manage the project. The Bank was delinquent in
allowing the Ministry to proceed with the project for 18 months without a Project Coordinator in place and
the Bank's reporting lacked attention to detail regarding physical achievements, implementation constaints
and the background as to why targets were not being met. Supervision was hampered by the lack of
monitorable output, performance and impact indicators. When the KUTP activities were added to RIPMP
in 1993 the Bank appears to have lost touch with these elements of the project and little reporting was done
through RIPMP. It is possible that closer supervision by the Bank, combined with appropriate advise, may
have salvaged the bus franchise rationalization exercise. Although supervision efforts were increased in
late 1995 when Task Management responsibilities for the project were moved to the Resident Mission,
overall supervision is rated as unsatisfactory.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
54.   Project preparation. From the information available it would appear that the Borrower produced
project preparation information in the form of the initial FYIIP and numerous other studies. As a result, the
overall performance was considered satisfactory. The Borrower clearly understood the limitations of its
inplementation capacity but failed to take into account the importance of addressing the staffing levels in a
sustainable manner or the effect on the implementation of the project that the increasingly difficult fiscal
environment would have.



14
55.   Project impkmentation. The loan agreement was declared effective within two weeks of the loan
being signed. hnitially project management was satisfactory but following the departure of the Project
Coordinator in late 1993 there was a serious lapse in reporting and the central project expenditure controls
and management processes broke down. Implementing units in the Ministry were allowed to circumvent the
DMPP and no quarterly or annual reports were prepared. This situation improved substantially in the last
18 months of project when a new Project Coordinator was appointed and the Planning Institute of Jamaica
implemented Quarterly Review meetings for all Bank financed projects. The new Project Coordinator,
however, was not able to report in detail as to what transpired during this 18 month period, indicating that
there had been a substantial breakdown in the project management responsibilities of the DMPP.
Disbursements requests were often late and poorly prepared. Overall performance is rated unsatisfactory.
56.   Compliance with loan covenants. Compliance with loan covenants was generally unsatisfactory,
particularly the financial, audit and reporting covenants. The loan covenants required a minimum annual
level of expenditure on road maintenance - based on actual expenditures at the time of project preparation
- but due to fiscal constraints and the fact that the emphasis shifted from road maintenance to
rehabilitation in the first three years of the project this covenant proved difficult for the Government to
meet. In reality, the actual amounts expended on road maintenance were difficult to verify as most road
maintenance contracts contained significant amounts of rehabilitation. If rehabilitation was included in the
equation then the rate of compliance improved appreciably.
57.   Audits were carried out by the Government's Auditor General (AG) and the quality of reports was
considered, on a number of occasions, to be barely acceptable. Audits were required to be forwarded to the
Bank four months after the end of the Government's fiscal year. This turned out to be an impossible
timetable for the Ministry and AG to meet and as a result audits were invariably late. For example, the
report for FY95/96 was 7.5 months late. The poor quality of Applications for Withdrawal for SOEs
prepared by the Ministry resulted in the Bank commnissioning an independent SOE audit in early 1996. This
confirmed that the internal financial management processes and controls were not being adhered to. An
action plan to recti the deficiencies was developed and imnplemented by the Ministry following
consultation with the Bank.
58.   The project's reporting covenant required detailed quarterly and annual reports to be forwarded to
the Bank. From the end of 1993 to May 1995, when the Project Coordinator's post was vacant, no reports
were prepared. Fron May 1995 onwards, monthly steenng comnittee meetings were held fromn which
monthly progress reports were generated for the main activities underway at the time, resulting in much
improved communication between the Bank and the Borrower. Overall performance is rated
unsatisfactory.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
59.   The overall project results were unsatisfactory. The project contributed little to its main objectives
of sgtheinng the capacity of the Ministry to phn, manage and maintain the road transport infrastucture
in a cost effective manner, improving the cost effectiveness of the Ministry's investments and improving
road safety. The reorganization of the Ministry was not completed as planned, the Equipment Management
Program was not fully implemented, and it is not possible to verify the effectiveness of a significant
proportion of the expenditure under this loan due to inadequate reporting of work done through petty
contacts. However, the TA component made significant, if not sustainable, improvements to the
implenation capacity of the Ministry, major cost effective periodic road maintenance investments were
undertakn, two major highway upgrading projects have been identified for future investnent and
associated feasibility studies have been successfully completed and the Road Safety Study, combined with



15
other initiatives in the sector, contributed to a reduction in road accidents. In addition, mechanism are now
in place to assist the Ministry to plan and manage the highway investment program.
60.   RIPMP provided assistance to the Borrower with the drafting of transport policy and identification
of institutional strngthening requirements of the MPUT. However, the project did not provide an efficient
system of urban transport in the KMR. The Govermnent has, through its actions, demnabd that it is
prepared to become a major investor in the urban transport sector in order to overcome the deficiencies in
the system.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
61.   The detailed design and civil works investments identified in the two major feasibility studies
prepared during RIPMP will form the basis of the Bank's next transport sector loan, the Road
Infiastructure Development Project (RIDE). These investments, both of which are identified in the current
FYIIP, are the upgrading of the Portmore/Kingston Causeway and the upgrading of the Al Highway from
Spanish Town to St. Ann's Bay. Both subprojects have limited potential for private sector investnt and
the viability of tolling has been investigated and found to be possible for discrete sections of the routes. The
project is expected to require a loan of approximately US$60 million and RIDE is currendy in the Bank's
pipeline for financing in FY99. Procurement and nstitutional Capacity constraints are to be addressed in
the PSMP and the maintenance of tertiary roads is to be addressed by the upcoming Parish Infrastructure
Project. RIDE is part of a comprehensive program being developed by the Government in conjunction with
the Bank, the IDB and other donor agencies. The focus of this program is to reduce user costs and thereby
encourage the diverse econonic activities which will allow the country to develop a sustainable economic
base. The main objective of the program will be to create a sustainable maintenance system based upon
domestic capabilities and personnel. The donor community is closely collaborating in sectoral dialogue
with the Government to promote sustainable highway investment, maintenance and financing policies and
practices.
K.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The key lessons learned from the implementation experience of this project are as follows:
(i) Project design must reflect the institutional capacity of the implementing agency, mechanisms should be
developed to address implementation constraints and any institutional reform process needs to have broader
ownership in the relevant Ministry rather than be dependent on individual personalties for its successful
implementation. Stating minimum annual levels of investment for road maintenance in a Loan Agreeent
does not guarantee that these reources will be made available. Instead, sustainable road nuintenanc
financing policies should be addressed by any future project and assistance provided to develop systems
that relate the needs of the users, plus the benefits received fiom any investment, more directly to user
charges. As a result of inifiatives undertaken during the course of this project the Ministry is investigating
the possible use of a Dedicated Road Maintenance Fund. Providing extensive TA resources that supplant
counterpart staff and create dependencies on externally funded projects does not build sustainable
implementation capacity and should be avoided if possible.
(ii) While a project must be flexible enough to respond to changing circumstances, priorities and the needs
of the Borrower, significant changes or the addition of new activities must be weighed against the
associated risks, the demands on the Bank's technical/supervisory resources plus its ability to supervise
addition  components  at fill outside the scope of the original project.



16
(iii) The Borrower's project management staff must be held accountable for the performance of the project.
SOE hresholds must reflect the capacity of the implementing agency and should be adjusted during the
course of a project if necessary.
(iv) The complexity of Government procurement procedures was demonstrated in this and other Bank
financed projects and cannot be resolved on an individual project since it requires system-wide solutions, as
proposed under the PSMP.
(v) Without substantial modification of the conditions of pay and employment the Sustainability of
administrative and institutional reform efforts are unlikely. Management structures need to be updated and
stremlined, workers empowered and remuneration levels should be based on productivity and
performance. The PSMP will analyze and then propose changes to the Ministry's management structure
and also assist with the implementation of the forthcoming recomnendations.
(vi) Specific project outcome and impact measures, in addition to input and output indicators, should be
established during design, evaluated as part of the project and consistently monitoted to determine project
achievement and impact. This is now a standard requirement for all new projects.
(vii) Successful project implementation requires commitment on the part of Government and effective,
continued and coordinated supervision by the Bank with minimal changes in task management, particularly
for problemn projects. Consistency in Bank staff should help ensure greater familiarity with the decision
making structure of the country and underlying constraints, enhance relationships with counterparts and
otherwise contribute to improved implementation. Where changes are unavoidable, there needs to be
detailed and systematic transfer of responsibility and project related information to the new task manager.



17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial  Partial  Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                   0          0         0              0
Sector policies                  0         0          0              0
Financial objectives             0         0          0              0
Institutional development        0          0         0              03
Physical objectives              0          0         0              0
Poverty reduction                0         D          0              0
Gender issues                    0         D          0              0
Other social objectives          0         0          0              0
Environmental objectives         0          0         0              0
Public sector management         0          0         0              0
Private sector development       0          0         0              0
B. Project Sustainability            Likely          Unlikely         Uncertain
0               0                 0
C. Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                       0                   0                   03
Preparation assistance               0                   0                   D
Appraisal                            0                   0                   0
Supervision                          0                   0                   0
D. Borrower Performance          Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                          D                   0                   0
hnplementation                       0                   D                   0
Covenant compliance                  D                   0                   0
Operation                            0                   D                   0
Highly                                        Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome   Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
D             0              0                0



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/                                                      Year of
Credit Title                     Purpose                    Approval        Status
Preceding operations:
1. Highway I          To upgrade some of the more heavily traveled  3/65        Closed
and congested pfimary road sections north and             Repaid
west of Kingston.
2. Highway II         Contributed to the preservation of the road   5/73         Closed
network by reducing the backlog of deferred               Repaid
periodic maintenance, upgrading selected roads
and improving the MOW's (now the
MLG&W) the road maintenance procedures.
3. Highway m          To upgrade some of the more heavily traveled  7/74        Closed
and congested primary road sections north and            Disbursed
west of Kingston. Also improved the MOW's
ability to carry out transport planning and
coordination.
4. Highway IV         Addressed Road Maintenance problems through   6/79        Closed
a program of road resealing and strengthening             Repaid
and by improving the MOW's road
maintenance organization.
5. Highway            Continued the program of activities started   5/83         Closed
Mantenance            under Highway TV.                                        Disbursed
6. Kingston Urban     To provide an adequate and efficient system of  3/84      Closed
Transport             urban transport in the Kingston Metropolitan             Disbursed
Region. The use of the Private sector was to
be included where feasible.
Followin2 operations:
1. Parish Infrastructure   To support Local Government Reform, improve  97     To Board
the implementation capacity of Parish Councils,          September
arrest the deterioration of parochial                      '97
infrastucture and to help to alleviate poverty in
rural and inner city areas.



19
Following operations(cont.):
2. Public Sector          To support the Gov.'s efforts to bring about  10/96     Ongoing
Modemization              major improvements in the quality of service          Undisbursed
provided by selected public agencies and
ministries (including the Ministry); to
strengthen their ability to formulate policy,
technical standards and operational norms;
continue the rationalization of the public
sector; to improve efficiency, value for money
and tansparency m Gov. procurement and
contracting; to enhance public sector
accountability and improve financial and
personnel management.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned                Actual Date
Identification                         7/88                       7/88
Preparation                             na                         na
Appraisal                            4/09/90 (1)                 4/20/90
Negotiations                            na                       10/12/90
Board Presentation                  20/09/90 (i)                 12/04/90
Signing                                 na                      12/12/90
Effectiveness                       12/15/90 (2)                 12/19/90
Midterm Review                          na                        None
Project Completion                  12/31/95 (3)                 12/31/96
Loan Closing                        06/30/96 (4)               12/31/96 (s
(1) Project Brief dated March 20, 1990
(2) Memorandum of President dated November 8, 1990
(3) Loan Agreement dated December 12, 1990
(4) Staff Appraisal Report dated November 8, 1990
(5) Final Disbursement: May 28, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY                    91    92    93    94    95    96    97
Appraisal Estimate                   5.81   13.7  21.7  28.5   35
Actual                               2.3   3.22  9.61   16.9  21.1  27.8   35
Actual as % of Estimate              39.5  23.5  44.3  59.3  60.2  79.4  100
Note: Disbursements during the Ist semester of 1991 includes USS2.3 for the establishment of a Special Account.



21
Table 5a: Institutional Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                     Estimated               Actual
I. Key Implementation Indicators
The Borrower was required to carry out the
following actions:
1. (a) Commence implementation of the road      12/31/91      Inception Report
safety study included in Annex 2, 12 (b) of the                presented to Borrower
Project SAR. (Schedule 2, Part D of Loan                       10/92
Agreement)
(b) Furnish to the Bank its recommendations  12/31/92       Draft Final report 06/93
on the study referred to in 1. (a) above.
(c) Review with the Bank the recommend-      04/30/93       Final Report 12/1993
ations referred to in 1. (b) above.
2. (a) Commence implementation of the road      12/31/92               03/93
user cost study included in Annex 2, 12 (a) of                   under revised TORs
the Project SAR (Schedule 2, Part A, 6 (a) of
the Loan Agreement).
(b) Furnish to the Bank its recommendations   9/30/93               10/93
on the study referred to in 2. (a) above.
(c) Review with the Bank the recommend-       12/31/93           Complied with
ations referred to in 2. (b) above and a proposed
plan of action to address issues raised in the
study referred to in 2. (a) above.
(d) Commence implementation of such action  Promptly after    Fuli Compliance 12/94
plan revised as needed to take account of the   12/31/93
444*s comments thereon.
3. (a)                                 - 'Ri,rpjm4 ----- np       t      .
water study included in Annex 2, 12 (c) of the                 Loan Agreement - not
Project SAR. (Schedule 2, Part A, 6 (b) of the                 done under this project.
Loan Agreement).
03/93 (SAR)
(b) Fumish to the Bank its recommendations
on the study referred to in 1. (a) above.
06/93 (SAR)
(c) Review with the Bank the recommend-
ations referred to in 1. (b) above.
-g.e  a-  ',--   -                     _F_11II: :



22
the term of their respective contracts, and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the   (F) Foreign Consultant
Bank:                                       (L) Local Consultant
(a) a Project Director, later modified to  01/01/91- 36 mths.(F)   10/22/90- 36 mths.(F),
Project Coordinator;                                           05/95- 20 mths.(L)
(b) a transport economist;               01/31/91- 24 mths.(F)   02/11/91- 10 mths.(F)
01/30/92- 19 mths.(F),
a highway engineer;                           - 24 mths.(F)   01/18/93- 6 mths. (L)
01/30/91- 19 mths.(F)
01/92 - 58 mths (F)
(c) two project engineers;               02/28/91- 48 mths.(L)    01/91- 70 mths.(F)
- 12 mths.(F)   01/01/92- 58 mths.(F)
10/94- 28 mths. (F) -
Transport Modeler
(3)06/91 - 198 mths (F)
two equipment management consultants;   02/28/91- 12 mths.(L)   08/91 - 12 mths. Local
Firm appointed
- 12 mths.(F)   02/94- 2 mths. (F)
and an institutional specialist;      02/28/91- 24 mths.(L)  Not appointed, instead a
team from the MPS was
appointed.
(d) an environmental specialist.         03/31/91- 12 mths.(F)  Not appointed
5. Prepare and furnish to the Bank, a written  Not later than 30 days  Partially complied with,
report on the progress achieved in execution of,  thereafter the end of   the Project
intera i, the physical, financial and institutional  each quarter.  Coordinator's post was
aspects of the project. Each such report shall be                 vacant from 10/93 to
of such scope and detail as the Bank shall                        05/95 during which time
reasonably request and shall include, inter i,                    no reports were
information indicating progress achieved,                         prepared. Since 05/95
measured against key monitoring and evaluation                    monthly progress
indicators acceptable to the Bank.                                meetings were held and
reports presented to the
Task Manager.
6. Furnish to the Bank a written report on the  01/10 of each year.   Partially complied with,
progress made during the previous year in the                     the Project
implementation of the Road Inrastructure                          Coordinator's post was
Invenent Program including other externally                       vacant from 10/93 to



23
funded projects. Each such report shall be of                 05/95 during which time
such scope and detail as the Bank shall                       no reports were
reasonably request and shall include inter alia,              prepared. See 5. above
information indicating progress achieved,
measured against key monitoring and evaluation
indicators acceptable to the Bank.
7. Carry out an equipment management program  As agreed in the  Inventory and audit
satisfactory to the Bank.                program approved by   commenced 08/91 but
the Borrower on     was not completed until
09/19/90            03/92, 02/94 Mechanical
Management Specialist
hired. Limited progress
I made.
8. Carry out a reorganization of the MOC(W)    As agreed in the  Partially achieved but
satisfactory to the Bank.                program approved by  the mergers with the
the Borrower on     MOC(H), MLG and
09/19/90            subsequent moving of
responsibility for
Housing to the MOE
created an atmosphere
of constant change and
disruption. Also effected
by the shortage of
qualified and
experienced technical
staff and changes in
senior management.
9. Furnish to the Bank, as part of the update of  10/31 each year.    Complied with but often
the Road Infrastructure Investment Program                    late.
referred to in Section 3.04 of the Loan
Agreement, evidence that any land required for
construction activities included in such update
for carrying out the following year has been duly
acquired.
10. In the event that any investment to be  Prior to commencing  No investments required
included in the update of the Road            investment.     resettlement. Future
Infiwtructure Investment Program requires                     investments in upgrading
displacement or resettlement of population and                of the
upon the Bank's request, carry out a                          PortmoretKingston
resettlement plan for such population which                   Corridor and Al
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.                            Highway will both
require resettlement.



24
Table Sb: Physical Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated
Activities to be completed        Completion       Actual Completion Date
Date
I. As set out in the SAR
A. Construction and UD radin_
Washington Boulevard                          03/93               Not done
Lances Bay Bridge Approaches                  03/91      Not done - now part of NCHIP
Agualta Vale - Dover                          03/93      Not done - now part of NCHIP
Kingston - Morant Bay                         03/93        Some minor upgrading done
during overlay contract.
Carey Park - Falmouth                         03/92      Not done - now part of NCHIP
Land Acquisition                              03/91                 Partial
Feasibility Studies                           04/94           December 31, 1996
B. Rehabilitation                             03/95      (Sandy Gully Spillway - see E.)
C. Periodic Maintenance
New Periodic Program                          03/95             09/96 (85 km)
IBRD Kingston Resurfacing                     03/92             04/93 (65 kmn)
D. Routine Maintenance
Road and Bridge Maintenance                   03/95               Not known
E. Flood Water Control
-Sandy Gully and Tributaries                  03/92               April 1994
Flood Studies and Mapping                     03/94               Not done
F. Traffic Management and Road Safety         03/94                 12/96
G. Institutional Training, Technical Assistance  09/93              12/96
and Equipment
H. Plant and Eguipment Management        _
Equipment and Technical Assistance            03/92                 08/94



25
Table 5b: Physical Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont.)
II. As modified during annual reviews
A. Construction and Uomrading
Hope Road Corridor                           03/96               Not done
Spencer James Avenue                          na                   10/94
Trafalger Road                               12/97               Not done
Waterloo Road                                12/97               Not done
Constant Spring Road                         03/98               Not done
Spanish Town Road                            03/99               Not done
Negril to Sav-la-mar                         03/98               Not done
Spur Tree Curves                             03/96                 06/96
B. Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of Portmore Causeway Bridge     na                  05/91
Special Road Rehabilitation Project (SRRP)    na               02/95 (230 kmi)
C. Flood Water Control      X XX_X1
Rio Cobre River Training                       na                   95
Yallas Fording - Culverts and River Training  na                    96
Purchase of 10 Bailey Bridges plus spares      na                   95



26
Table Sc: Key Indicators for Project Effectiveness
Indicators                 Estimated Achievement   Actual Achievement
I. As set out in the SAR
No Effectiveness Indicators were specified
II Modified Effectiveness Inducators (as added
to project 09/93 from KUTP) (The following
indicators were specified in the SAR for KUTP)
Public Transport                           By 1989/90 Reduce to:
1. Reduce Travel Times (1984=100%)                 700/o         Information not
available, - due to
significantly increased
traffic congestion
reduction is extremely
unlikely.
2. Reduce peak load ftctors (low demand             1.0          1992 = 3.0
routes) - estimates are as anticipated in 1984                    1993 = 2.8
and are not particularly relevant due to the                      1994 = 2.6
substantially different urban transport                          1995 = 2.0
environment that now exists.                                     1996 = 1.8
1997= 1.8
3. Reduce peak load factors (high demand           1.05          1992 = 2.5
routes) - as in 2. above.                                         1993 = 2.5
1994 = 3.0
1995 = 3.0
1996 = 2.8
1997 = 2.7
4. Regularity of service                          +/-5%          Information not
available
5. Operating cost/passenger                       JS0.21         Information not
available



27
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators in SAR/MOP
1. No indicators for project operations were defined in the SAR. They were not required
as standard procedure at the time of appraisal
2. No future operation indicators were defined at project completion but the Bank
recommended to the Borrower that a plan for the Operational Phase of the project be
prepared that would define the performance indicators to be used to monitor operations
and development impact. None has been prepared
Table 7: Studies Induded in Project
Purposes as defined at
Study           appraisal/redefined          Status         Impact of Study
Studies
Identified in
SAR
1. Road User   To recommend changes in    Not done as defined,    Substantial
Cost           road financing taxes and user   no formal redefinition
fee structure which would  appears to have been
make payments of the various  done but VOC and EC
vehicle classes or user groups  models were
and groups more represent-    produced.
ative of their respective
responsibilities, or more
compatible with Gov.
economic/social policy.
2. TSMIRoad   To recommend changes for    Completed in             Substantial
Safety         reorganization, training   December 1993 -
legislation, enforcement   financed by the
education and engineering  Swedish Gov. (foriegn
measures to reduce the     costs) and the
accident and fatality rate in    Jamaican Gov.JBank
Jamaica                    (local costs).
3. Flood Water To recommend development    Not done under this       None
Control        criteria, policy and physical     project
investment necessary to
I mitigate the economic and



28
personal losses as a result of
flooding.
Studies added
to the Project
4. Transport    To provide recommendations    Completed October    Substantial
Sector Study    for institutional strengthening    1993
of MPUT and for policy,
planning, operation, and
private sector initiatives in the
ports, rail, air and urban
subsectors. Also to evaluate
and recommend appropriate
actions and investments in the
sector suitable for local or
external financing
5. Kingston    To study, recommend and     The study was           Substantial
Bus            implement suitable urban    completed May 1994
Rationalization  transport franchise       and bids for franchises
arrangements which would    received in August
facilitate the private sector  1994. Contracts were
providing an efficient and cost  signed January 1995
effective transport service.  and implementation is
____________ _   ________ _____ongoing.
6. Feasibility    To study the feasibility of  Study and Preliminary   Not Applicable
Study -        upgrading the Al Highway    designs were
Upgrading of   from Spanish Town to St.    completed December
Al corridor    Ann's Bay and then prepare    1996.
Preliminary Designs.
7. Feasibility    To study the feasibility of  Study and Preliminary   Not Applicable
Study -        upgrading the               Designs were
Upgrading of   Kingston/Portmore corridor,   completed December
Kingston/Port-  from Halfway Tree to Spanish  1996
more corridor   Town, and then prepare
I Preliminary Designs       I



29
Table 8A: Project Costs
Apprais  Estimate (USSM)        A  tual (IJS$
Local  Foreign            Local   Foreign
Item               Costs    Costs    Total   Costs    Costs    Total
Civil Works                     23.0    10.9    33.9       NA        NA      34.55
Equipment and Spare Parts        0.1      0.5      0.6     0.36      1.26     1.62
Technical Assistance - Design,   4.0      2.8      6.8     0.16      6.6      6.76
Supervision, Training & Studies
TOTAL BASE COSTS                27.1     14.2    41.3      NA        NA      42.93
CONTINGENCIES  1.                6.1     2.9       9.0     NA        NA       NA
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    33.2    17.1            50.3     NA        NA       42.93
l. Combined Physical and Price contingencies.
Table BB: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)         Actual (IJS$M)
Local   Foreign              Local   Foreign
Source          Costs    Costs      Total    Costs    Costs    Total
Government              15.3      0.0       15.3      NA        NA       7.93
IBRD                    17.9      17.1      35.0      NA        NA       35.0
TOTAL                 33.2      17.1      50.3      NA        NA      42.93



30
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Based on the Borrower's ex-post evaluation of a sample of Periodic Maintenance Overlay
subprojects - these investments, 85% financed by the Bank, represent approximately 22% of the
total loan)
Road Subproject           Length          Costs             NPV             siC        EIRR
(km)           (JS)              (JS)          RATIO         (/)
Olivier Rd. to Norbrook            1.81        13,457,250        29,932,743        3.42        45.32
Shortwood Rd. to carmel Ave.       0.16         1,190,907         1,951,214        2.79        37.24
HOpc Rd. to UWI Gate                1.6        11,909,070        40,654,144        4.72        61.38
Baibican to Charlemont Drive       1.17         8,693,621        24,170,205        4.03        52.85
Old Haibour Roundabout to Angels   1.33         9,321,047        (2,248,015)       0.74         7.11
Bul Bay to Erbuour View            4.49        27,091,520        129,379,849        6.17        79.6
Fern Gully *                        3.3        23,127,410        48,738,906         3.29       43.71*
Four Paths to Graen Botom          12.54       94,318,883         6,027,664         1.07        13.18
Panpbxet to Grants Pen             9.81        59,191,048        48,897,358         1.89       25.55
Moneagueto Green Paik *            7.15        50,109,388        (21,311,092)       0.53       2.65*
Grans Pen to Bul Bay               4.97        29,987,718        63,006,757         3.28       43.62
Total                 48.33       328,397,862       369,194,733        2.22        29.95
' The economic analysis is based on current traffic management arrangements - the Govemment
has indicated that in the long term it intends to close Fern Gully to all but tourist traffic for
environmental reasons. Through traffic would be diverted to the Moneague/Green Park route
which would result in a redistribution of benefits. The Borrower has explained that the EIRR and
NPV are low for Green Park because the roughness of the road prior to overlaying was
acceptable but its skid resistance was poor. The VOC model used attributes greater weight to
improvements in roughness than skid resistance, hence benefits were low.
Notes: 1) Discount rate used in analysis was 12%
2) The main benefits were derived using: (i) the reduction in vehicle operating cost due to
decreased roughness and improved speed; and (ii) the reduction in person traveling time
due to improved vehicular speed.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement                                             Original         Revised
L.A. Section    Covenant Type           Fulfillment    Fulfillment Date      Description of Covenant                   Comments
Status      Date
2102 (b)          I           C          NA               NA          Borrower shall open and maintain    Complied with, account transferred to a
in dollars a special deposit account   commercial bank in Januaiy 1996.
in the Bank of Jamaica.
3.01 (a)          6           C          NA               NA          (a) Borrower shall carry out the  MLG and MPUT added as additional
Project through MOC(C) (the     implementing agencies.
Ministry) with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,
econormic, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
3.01 (b)          5           C          NA               NA          (b) Borrower shall carry out the  Schedule was adjusted to suit the fiscal
Project m accordance with the   constraints and heavy flooding in May 1993
Implementation Schedule set forth
in Schedule 5 to the Agreement.
3.03 (c)                                                              Borrower shall:
3/4         CP          NA               NA          (i) provide in its annual budget,  Due shift in emphasis from maintenance to
and make available promptly as  rehabilitation and difficulties in
needed in J$ equivalent, as  establishing exact amounts spent specifically
counterpart funds for road   on road maintenance (and not road
maintenance funds under its    rehabilitation) the amounts expended are not
Road Infrastructure Investment   easily verifiable.
Program each fiscal year, until
completion of the project, a
minimum of
(A) $20,000,000 for FY 91/92;
(B) $21,000,000 for FY 92/93;
(C) S22,000,000 for FY 93/94;   Information was not supplied in a consistent
(D) $23,000,000 for FY 94/95;   manner.



Agreement                                              Original         Revised
LA. Section    Covenant Type            Fulfillment    Fulfillment Date       Description of Covenant                    Comments
Status      Date
(E) $24,000,000 for FY 95/96;
3/4         CD          NA               NA              and
(ii) within thirty days after the
date of such budget is approved
each fiscal year, furnish to the Bank
such budget showing the amounts
stipulated above.
Borrower shall:
3.04 (a)          9           CD        31 Oct.          Varied        (a) not later than Oct. 31 of each  The last RIIP (FY 96/97) was received by
each year                      fiscal year, furnish to the Bank the   the Bank on March 10, 1997.
proposed annual update of the Road
Infrastructure Program (RIIP)
including Eligible Investments,
which shall be satisfactory to the
Bank;                            Notifications took place during supervision
3.04 (b)          9            C          NA               NA                                           missionsw
(b) from time to time advise the
Bank of any additions or
3.04 (b)                                                               modifications to the RIIP as they
occur during the course of the fiscal The co-financier meetings have not been
3.04 (c)          9           CP        30 Nov.           Varied       year, and                        held in accordance with the stipulated
timetable, the first and last Gov. held
(c) not later than November 30 of    meeting was June 9, 1993.
each fiscal year, review with the
Bank and all co-financiers of the
RIIP, the proposed annual update
referred to in paragraph (a) of this
section.                        .
3.05             9           C          NA              Varied        Borrower shall, before commencing   Notifications occurred during supervision
to execute, or committing funds for   missions.
the execution of a surface transport
investment estimated to cost
$5,000,000 or more: (a) inform the
Bank of such investment and



Agreement                                             Original         Revised
L.A. Section    Covenant Type           Fulfillment    Fulfillment Date      Description of Covenant                   Comments
Status      Date
comunitment, and if its assessment
of the impact of such investment on
the Road Infrastructure Investment
Program and the project; and (b)
give the Bank an opportunity to
coniment on such investmnent and
commitment.
3.06            2           CP          NA               NA          Borrower to maintain full cost
recovery in respect of the National
Road Transport Sector and advise
the Bank of any changes in policy or
actions which would adversely
affect such cost recovery, and afford
the Bank an opportuity to review
and comment on such changes.    _
3.07            2            C          NA               NA         Borrower to maintain a pricing
policy for gasoline, diesel,
lubricants and bitumen which net of
taxes shall be at all times not less
than the opportunity cost of the
product in questioa
4 01 (a)          I           C          NA               NA          (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained separate
records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound
practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof
4.01 (b)                                                              (b) Borrower shall:
I           C          NA               NA          (i) have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of



Agreement                                              Original         Revised
LA. Section    Covenant Type            Fulfilhment    Fulfillment Date       Description of Covenant                    Comments
Status      Date
this section including those for
the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate
4.01 (b)                                                                   auditing principles consistently
cont.                                                                    applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
CD        31 July          Varied                                         Audit report for FY 95/96 was received by
each year                      (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as  the Bank on March 14, 1997.
available, but in any case not
later than four months after the
end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall
C         NA                NA             have reasonably requested;-
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said
records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably
request.
4.01 (c)                                                               For all expenditures with respect to   The Bank initiated an independent SOE
which withdrawals from the Loan    audit utilizing a firm of private auditors.
Account were made on the basis of   The fial report, which, was received by the
statements of expenditure, the   Bank June 1996, indicated that there were
Borrower shall:                  weaknesses in the fuiancial management
CP         NA               NA          (i) maintain or cause to be       systems at the Ministry. Steps have since
maintained, in accordance with   been taken by the Ministry to rectify the
paragraph (a) of this section,    situation.
records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
I           CP         NA               NA



Agreement                                                    Original           Revised
L.A. Section    Covenant Type                Fulfillment      Fulfillment Date         Description of Covenant                         Comments
Status       Date
(ii) retain, until at least one year
after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account was
made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills receipts
and other documents)
C           NA                 NA               evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's
C           NA                 NA               representatives to examine such
records;
(iv) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the
annual audit report referred to
in paragraph (b) of this section
and that the report of such audit                                               L
contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the
procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support
___________    ________________             _____________    ________________        the  related   withdraw als       __________________h_rl te__td aw_.



resent Status:
= Covenant applied with   SOON  Compliance expected in Reasonable Short Time
D = Compliance after delay  CP   = Complied with Partially
C = Not Complied with       NYD  = Not Yet Due
ovenant Types:
= Account/audits
= Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
= Flow and utilization of project funds
= Counterpart funding
= Management aspects of the project or executing agency
= Management aspects of the project
= Involuntary resettlement
= Indigenous people
= Monitoring, review and reporting
O = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9



37
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was compliance with all pertinent Bank Operational Manual Statements
throughout the project cycle.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
Stage  _               ____    FY   ____
Total
86   87   88    89    90    91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Preparation             1.1   1.3   2.1  24.7                                               29.2
Appraisal                                 7.9   4.7                                         12.6
Negotiations      =                             2.6                                         2.6
Supervision      -      -     -    -            6    10.4  15.3  17.2  10.2  16.1  15.8    91
Midterm
Review  *
Completion                                                                           6       6
TOTAL                  1.1   1.3   2.1  32.6  13.3  10.4  15.3  17.2  10.2  16.1  21.8
*     Not done.



38
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
1.          RatI      3.            2.
Days in    Specialized
Stage of Project   Month!   No. of      Field     Staff Skills   Impl.    Devt.
Cycle         Year    Persons              IRepresented   Status    Objs.   Types of Problems
Identification       88        NA         NA           NA
Preparation          89        NA         NA           NA
Appraisal           04/90       3          18        TS,F,EC
PLW      4.
Supervision:
I           08/91       2          9         HE, TS          I        1             AF
II          05/92       1          7           HE            1        2             AF
III          12/92       2         13         TS,ME          2         1           AF,PM
IV           12/93       2         13          ME,E          2         1           AF,PM
V           05/94       2          28         ME,E           S       HS           AF,PM
VI           09/94       2         18         ME, E          S        U            AF,PM
VII          03/95       2          23         ME,E          S         S           AF,PM
vmI          04/96        1      ongoing         HE           U        S           AF,PM
VIII         06/95        1      ongoing         HE           U        U         PM,STD,PR
X           04/96        1      ongoing         HE           S        U             PM
Completion          01/97       2       ongo          E,EC          U        U              PM
1. Staff Skills
D= Disbursement specialist, F = financial analyst; EC= economist; L = legal; M  management specialist;
P = procurement specialist; HE = highway engineer, TS = transport specialist; ME  municipal engineer; E
engineer.
2. Twve of Problems
AF   = Availability of funds
PM   = Project Management Performance
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants
STD = Study delayed
ENV = Envirornental control
PR = Procurement Delayed
3. Ratis
I/HS = no problem; 2/S =moderate problems; 3/U = significant problems
4. PLW  Project Launch Workshop - not done



39
APPENDIX A
JAMAICA ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3275-JM)
FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION
February, 1997
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    The final supervision mission of the Road Infrastructure Planning and
Maintenance Project (RIPMP) was conducted by Robin Hughes and Robert V. Pulley
of the World Bank's Resident Mission. Meetings were held from January 10 to
February 21, 1997 with representatives from the Ministry of Local Government and
Works (MLG&W), the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Planning Institute of
Jamaica (PIOJ). The findings and recommendations of this mission are summarized
below. The mission wishes to thank these organizations for their cooperation and
assistance. This aide memoire is subject to confirmation by Bank management in
Washington, DC. Attachment 1 gives the list of the persons met by the mission.
OVERVIEW OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.    At the request of the Government, the project completion date was extended
for an additional six months until December 31, 1996 to complete the remaining civil
works and the two major feasibility studies. The implementation of all components is
complete but there are issues of project Sustainability that need to be addressed, as
discussed in paragraph 14. The mission recommended that the Borrower prepare
and adopt a plan for the Operational Phase of the project that would define the
performance indicators to be used to monitor operations and development
impact.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
3.    It is evident that the management systems at the MLG&W improved under the
current Project Coordinator although there are still weaknesses that require additional
effort. The Bank will continue its efforts to assist the reform of the MLG&W
through the Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP).



40
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Feasibility Studies
4.    Feasibility Study for the Upgrading of the Portmore to Kingston Corridor
- The contract for the study was signed with the consultants, M.M. Dillon, on January
19, 1996 and the consultants submitted their Draft Final Report to the MLG&W for
approval in late November 1996. The issue of human resettlement, as raised in the
previous supervision mission, was dealt with by incorporating within the consultant's
TORs the requirement to produce a resettlement plan. Other extensions to the
consultant's TORs included incorporation of a Drainage Study, additional alternative
junction arrangements for the Three Mile Roundabout Junction and an extension of the
corridor to Spanish Town. See paragraph 20.
5.    Feasibility Study for the Upgrading of the Al Highway from Spanish
Town to St. Anns Bay - The contract with the successful bidders, Societe Nouvelle
Ingeroute (France), was signed on February 7, 1996. The Draft Final Report was
submitted by the consultants in early December 1996. The TORs were extended to
include an assessment of the financial viability and potential for Private Sector
Investment. See paragraph 20.
Civil Works
6.    Overlay Contracts - This component comprised the rehabilitation and
overlaying in asphaltic concrete of approximately 84 kilometers of pre-selected roads in
the corporate and rural areas. The works were divided into five contracts and these
were all substantially completed by September 1996. Activities that were not
complete before the Loan Closing Date consisted of remedial works and
application of carriageway markings during the Overlay Contracts' Maintenance
Periods, it was agreed that these activities will not be financed by the Bank.
7.    The original contract sum for the five contracts combined was
J$360,443,437.60, of which 80% was to be financed by the Bank. At the time of
contract signing (July 1995) the exchange rate was US$1 to J$33, giving an
approximate total contract value of US$10.92 million equivalent. The current estimated
final contract sum is J$472,200,000.00 which equates to approximately US$13.49
million equivalent, at January 1997's rate of US$1 to J$35. This represents an overall
increase of approximately 23%. Some of this increase is due to inflation (escalation in
the prices of materials and labor), but the remainder is due to variations in the scope of
the works. Due to the shortage of loan funds it was agreed that the Bank will not
be called upon to finance the full extent of the cost overruns.
8.    Following completion of the Overlay Packages the MLG&W indicated that
there are ongoing road maintenance site supervision duties, contract document
preparation and tender procedures for future overlay packages that will require the



41
continued employment of consultants O'Sullivan and Graham. As a result, the
Ministry stated that it had negotiated an extension to O'Sullivan and Graham's contract
which will be financed from Government resources.
9.    Resealing contracts - The MLG&W had previously requested that the Bank
finance three resealing packages for approximately 32 kilometers of roads in the
Corporate Area, total value US$1.1 million. As there was an insufficient balance of
Loan funds to finance these contracts the Government financed the work from its
own resources. It was agreed that the Government will not request
reimbursement for these contracts from the Bank.
Traffic Management
10.   A major program of junction improvements in the Kingston Corporate Area
(KCA), financed from Government resources, had been prepared and is now being
implemented by the Traffic Management Division of the MLG&W. This program of
highway improvements, estimated to cost approximately US$22 million, was prepared
in conjunction with Wilbur Smith, the Ministry's Traffic Management consultants.
Wilbur Smiths contract came to an end on December 31, 1996 and they have now
demobilized. A new consultant has since been employed.
11.   The planning of this program of junction improvements was undertaken without
the benefit of a comprehensive traffic forecasting model or an up-to-date traffic and
land use/development masterplan for the KCA. The Traffic Management Division
(with the assistance of Wilbur Smith) created a traffic model using the computer
program TRANSPLAN but the model's implementation was substantially delayed due
to problems with collection of baseline data. This model was to have been fully
operational by the end of June 1996, at which time the deadline was extended to
December 1996. The MLG&W has indicated that although the model is essentially
complete they do not have the necessary qualified or experienced staff to utilize it to its
full potential. The Sustainability of this component is in doubt. The mission
recommended that the MLG&W retain sufficient qualified and experienced
personnel as soon as possible to ensure that the traffic model will be used as
intended. It was also recommended that the MLG&W and other associated
Government agencies, work towards establishing a comprehensive land
use/masterplan for the KCA.
12.   A highway improvement scheme that was to have been financed by the Bank,
the widening of Hope Road from Matildas Corner (Liguanea) to Richings Avenue is to
be re-tendered. The revised start date is currently late 1997 and the estimated works
costs are US$3.4 million. As agreed previously, the work will be financed from
Government resources.



42
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
13.   The major thrust of this project was to develop the capabilities and processes
within the MLG&W to improve the cost effectiveness of the investment program.
Some reorganization was carried out but the MLG&W continued to suffer from an
inability to recruit and retain sufficient numbers of qualified technical and managerial
staff. This continues to seriously hinder implementation of projects.
14.   The closing of the Loan on December 31, 1996 resulted in the departure of the
Traffic Management consultants (financed by the Bank) and some thirty plus MLG&W
members of staff (financed from Government resources) were given notice that their
employment status would be amended to one of the following options: (1) return to the
substantive post within the Ministry (along with a drop in salary); (2) apply for an
alternative post within the Ministry; or (3) be made redundant. The full impact of the
loan closure has yet to be seen, however it is evident that the MLG&W has been
heavily dependent on its project staff and consultants and that little preparation has
been made to effect a smooth transition to non-project status. The fact that the
MLG&W had seen it necessary to retain the existing Road Maintenance consultant, a
new Traffic Management consultant (both using Government resources) and that there
are no suitable staff within the Traffic Management Division to fully utilize the
computerized traffic model, strongly reinforces the view that there has been little
sustainable capacity built up as a result of the Technical Assistance component of the
loan.
15.   One of the objectives of the Bank financed PSMP, which was signed in
October 1996, is the strengthening of the MLG&W's core organization. However, the
project has still not been declared effective and the consultancy work required to
analyze the MLG&W management structure and consequently make recommendations
for change is in Phase 2 of the Project - as a result the consultancy work is scheduled to
commence in late 1997. If the MLG&W is to achieve maximum benefit from this
proposed institutional strengthening, and hopefully the revamping of its road
maintenance financing arrangements (see paragraph 19), it is advised that the
consultancy activities are brought forward in the Government's program.
PROJECT FINANCE
16.   Disbursements in the last six months of the project continued to lag behind
original projections and disbursement applications were not submitted to the Bank in a
timely manner. Disbursements up to December 31, 1996 amounted to US$33.5 million
or 96% of the total loan amount of US$35 million. Discussions with the Project
Coordinator confirmed that there were sufficient activities completed prior to the Loan
Closing Date that will fully utilize the remaining loan proceeds. A further batch of
applications, approximate total value US$1.1 million, was received by the Bank at the
end of January 1997. The Bank agreed to keep the Loan Account open until April



43
30, 1997 to allow full drawdown of the balance of the Loan. The Borrower
agreed to forward all applications for withdrawal to the Bank, for eligible
expenditures, before this date. Any balance of the loan that has not been drawn
down by April 30, 1997 will be canceled.
17.   The poor quality of presentation of Applications for Withdrawal forms
continued to delay the processing of claims and a number of applications had to be
returned to the Borrower. Additionally, due to concerns regarding the standard of
documentation being presented to the Bank for reimbursement using Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) procedures, an SOE audit was commissioned by the Bank and the
resulting audit report was received in June 1996. The audit report confirmed the
Bank's concerns that there were deficiencies in the MLG&W's internal financial
management systems and also .made recommendations for the improvement of these
same systems. The MLG&W had indicated that these improvements have been
implemented, however, the Bank is still awaiting an official response from the
Government. It was agreed that the Auditor General would report on the
progress of these improvements to the management systems in the annual project
audit.
18.   The annual project audit (FY1995/96) was to have been submitted to the Bank
no later than September 30, 1996 but at the end of December 1996 the report had still
not been received. The Acting Permanent Secretary of the MLG&W committed
himself to presentation of the final report to the Bank before the end of February
1997. However, due to delays at the Auditor General's office the report will not
be available until March 14, 1997. The mission reiterated the Bank's concern
regarding overdue audit reports and the fact that future projects that are due to
be approved by the Bank's Board of Directors, for example the Parish
Infrastructure Project, could be delayed until the overdue report is received by
the Bank.
ROAD MAINTENANCE ISSUES
19.   The level of routine/periodic maintenance for the 6,800 km of national roads in
Jamaica continues to be a cause for concern. The total FY1996/97 expenditure for
road maintenance, Capital A projects (Gov. financed), is expected to be US$42.8
million and for Capital B projects (international lending/grants, etc.), US$26.6 million.
Although this satisfies the Loan covenant that a minimum of US$24 million per annum
should be provided in the Government's budget for periodic and routine road
maintenance senior officials in the MLG&W were still of the opinion that this
expenditure represents only a small fraction of the road maintenance needs of the
country. Until the road condition surveys (to be financed by the European Union and
the Inter-American Development Bank) are complete the full extent of the county's
needs cannot be accurately quantified. The mission reconfirmed the Bank's
commitment to work with the Government towards the development of
sustainable financing arrangements for road maintenance and agreed to provide



44
assistance with the holding of a DRMF seminar in Jamaica. This seminar is
tentatively scheduled for mid July 1997 and the EU delegation has indicated that
it would be willing to participate and to provide resources as necessary.
UPCOMING PROTECTS
20.   The two major studies mentioned above are major components of the Road
Infrastructure Development Project (RIDE - formerly called the Transport Sector
Project) which is currently under preparation by the MLG&W and the Bank. It was
agreed that the Final Reports for the two studies will be formally submitted by
the Government, as part of a Project Preparation Report, to the Bank once the
internal review process is complete and they have been accepted by the Borrower.
This submission should include, inter alia, a statement of acceptance of the consultants'
recommendations, the project financing requirements and a proposed program for
advancement to the next stages of the project. It is anticipated that this submission to
the Bank will take place by the end of March.
21.   The Bank has requested, following discussion with the MLG&W, a Japanese
Grant facility of US$0.85 million to finance the next phase of the project preparation
and it is anticipated that the funds will be available from early April 1997. This grant
will finance the initial phases of the Detailed Design stage of Dillon's and Ingeroute's
contracts but there will be a shortfall of approximately US$2 million for the
consultancy fees required for the Detailed Design stage. The MLG&W has indicated
that a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) will be required to finance this shortfall. It
was agreed that the Bank will proceed with the preparation of the Japanese
Grant Agreement documents once grant approval from Japan has been received
and the Bank has received a formal request from the PIOJ. The MLG&W
confirmed that a request for a PPF had been made to the PIOJ, but to date this
request has not been transmitted to the Bank. It was agreed that the MLG&W
will follow this up with the PIOJ.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
22.   The Bank discussed with the Project Coordinator and the PIOJ the contents and
timing of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report and
copies of the Bank's reporting guidelines were provided for their information. It was
agreed that the Project Coordinator would submit his draft version of the report to the
PIOJ by the end of February 1997. It was agreed that the final report will be
submitted to the Bank by April 1, 1997. If this report is longer than 10 pages, a
summary not exceeding 10 pages, must be provided.



45
For MLG&W:                                           For the World Bank:
Dr. Alwin Hales                                       Robin Hughes
Acting Permanent Secretary                            Task Manager
Kingston, Jamaica, March 12, 1997



46
Attachment
1
PERSONS MET
Govemment
Ministry of Finance            Mr. Raymond Brooks              Deputy Fin.
Sec.
and Planning
Planning Institute of          Mr. Orville Simmonds      WB Desk Officer
Jamaica
Ministry of Local Government   Dr. Alwin Hales                 Acting Per.
Sec.
and Works                      Mr. Dennis Chong                Dir. of
Major Projects
Mr. Peter Schroeter            Dir. of
Maint.
Mr. Horace Sutherland          Project
Coordinator
Mr. Williams                   Principle.
Fin. Officer
Mr. Keaton Morgan              Road
Safety Officer
LendinzlDonor Aeencies
European Union Delegation      Mr. Richard Wilkinson           Technical
Advisor
Inter American Development Bank  Mr. James Campbell             Sector
Specialist
Local Mission
Consultants
O' Sullivan and Graham         Mr. Alan Machray                Country
Manager
Wilbur Smith and Associates    Mr. Andrew Hayes                Country
Manager
M.M. Dillon Ltd.               Mr. Chris Dunham                Project
Manager
Ingeroute                      Mr. Robert Jeancenelle          Project
Manager



47
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
INTRODUCTION
The Ministry of Local Govemment and Works (MLG&W) is the agency of
Govemment charged with the responsibility for upgrading and maintaining all
public roadways and bridges throughout the island and for the provision of traffic
management systems. During the latter part of the eighties, the Ministry, with
assistance from the World Bank, developed a Five Year Infrastructure
Investment Program (FYIIP). This was a rolling program from which projects to
be financed for subsequent years were compiled. Out of this FYIIP, the Road
Infrastructure Planning & Maintenance Project (RIPMP) was formulated. A loan
of US$ 35.0 million for financing part of the RIPMP with a total cost of US$50.316
million was signed with the Bank in December 1990.
The overall objectives of the project were  to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the Ministry to plan, manage and maintain the road infrastructure
and to improve road safety.
The project consisted of three components:
1   Institutional strengthening
2   Road infrastructure investment - construction, upgrading and rehabilitation
3   Traffic Management Program - Road Safety
The overall performance of the project could be considered unsatisfactory when
rated against its stated objectives. Notwithstanding this rating, the project has
partially assisted the Ministry of Local Government and Works in strengthening
its capacity to plan and manage the road infrastructure as evidenced by the
overlaying and resealing of roads, traffic management, procurement of equipment
and improvement in human resources development. The weaknesses of the
project were mainly due to deficiencies in project management and the
uncompetitive compensation in the Ministry of Local Government and Works
which aided a high level of staff attrition.
The project was designed with a flexible infrastructure investment component to
allow the implementing agency to decide over time, the specific operations to be
included under this component. Though this had some advantages, it created an



48
ad hoc approach to investment planning, resulting in difficulties in monitoring
and evaluation.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - ACHIEVEMENTS
1.  Institutional Strengthening:
The main focus of this component was the development of capabilities within the
Ministry to improve the cost effectiveness of the investment program. The major
reorganization within the Ministry was the formation and staffing of the Directorate
of Major Projects in 1993. It is envisaged that remaining institutional weaknesses
will be addressed under the Public Sector Modernization Project being funded by
a consortium of lending agencies, including the Bank.
In the area of training, the focus was on development of the human capital aimed
at strengthening the performance capabilities of the Ministry. Training was an
integral part of the Technical Assistance and its main  limitation was the
unavailability of counterpart staff in required numbers. The schedule of staff
training indicated that 8,900 of the Ministry's staff were to be trained. Of this
amount 7,000 were employed under the lengthman system, but only 800 or 11
percent received training. This serious shortfall will impact negatively on the
Sustainability of the Ministry's maintenance program. Fifteen of the seventeen
senior staff scheduled for overseas courses and study tours participated. Areas of
training were in computing, soil investigations, traffic management and technician
courses. The exposure gained from training has impacted positively on the
human resources capabilities of the Ministry.
A number of systems - largely computer based - were developed and these
enabled the Ministry to co-ordinate the implementation of projects. This was
achieved largely through the Technical Assistance component within which the
Road Maintenance Engineers and Traffic Maintenance Consultants were
engaged.
Procurement activities included items of equipment which had a positive effect
on the Ministry's ability to manage the road sub-sector. The main procurement
items were computers and computer accessories and vehicles, particularly for
project supervision. Various items of equipment were acquired by the traffic
branch. These included:
a)  Traffic Signals
b)  Road marking equipment
c)  Road Scrubbers
d)  Pavement Cutters
e)  Roughness Wheels, etc.



49
The road related equipment was particularly important in sustaining the
Ministry's capability to improve road standards and traffic management.
1.    Civil Works:
Substantial achievements were made under this component of the project
resulting in positive impact on road improvement. The areas of significance
were:
i )  Routine Maintenance: A program of routine maintenance was put in place
in all the parishes - largely through the use of a lengthman system. Under this
program the maintenance work on the islandwide network was significantly
improved. The Technical Assistance component contributed significantly to the
implementation capacity of the Ministry in effecting cost savings and periodic
road maintenance measures.
ii)  Rehabilitation and Upgrading: A program of rehabilitation and upgrading
of a number of roads throughout the island was implemented. Contracts to
overlay 85 kilometers of pre-selected roads were accomplished. In 1995 three
contracts were awarded to reseal 32 kilometers of roads in the Corporate Area.
However, due to insufficient balance of loan funds these contracts were financed
from government resources.
The main areas of concern with the civil works component were:
iii) The failure to provide adequate numbers of counterpart staff as works
overseers to the foreign consultants, thereby constraining the transfer of
technology.
iv)  In some instances the flow of budgetary resources to the project was
slow, impacting negatively on project implementation.
The flexibility of the project in procurement procedures facilitated greater use
of local contracts thereby strengthening the local capacity to implement road
infrastructure projects.
3.    Road Safety:



50
The focus under this component was traffic management. A number of
systems were developed and implemented over the final two years of the
project. The Liguanea to Half-way-Tree and Three Miles systems have
significantly improved traffic flows in the respective areas.
The study on road safety maintenance which was a component of the project
was carried out through technical and economic assistance from another
international agency with the concurrence of the Bank. The study was an
important management tool for the Ministry in the establishment of the Road
Safety Unit within the Ministry, utilizing project funds.
A significant contribution of the road safety component was a major program of
junction improvements in the Corporate Area. It can be said that these traffic
signs have contributed to a reduction in road accidents in the Corporate Area.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - WEAKNESSES
An aspect of the project design was to identify and prioritize a pipeline of
investment projects to be funded by lending institutions. Projects for funding
would coincide with the priority listing. The main weaknesses with this modality
were twofold: firstly, the lending agencies were scheduled to meet annually for
donors' meetings where the decision on financing of specific projects would be
taken. Only one meeting was held during the life of the project. Secondly, the
funding priorities of the other intemational agencies were varied and might not
have coincided with the projects being offered in the sector for priority financing.
This made the process less effective.
During implementation, the lack of staff in sufficient numbers at all levels of the
project management hierarchy (and generally within the Ministry) limited the
achievement of project objectives. At the end of project implementation, the
Ministry was marginally in better position to efficiently manage the investments
in the road sector than it was at commencement. Although strategies were
developed during implementation to enhance performance, the level of technical
and non-technical persons required to effectively implement these strategies was
not realized.  Although training at the management level was satisfactory,
because of uncompetitive remuneration staff attrition was noticeable.  The
Ministry is cognizant of this shortcoming and plans are being developed to
address this problem. However this is likely to be accomplished in the medium
term.
There seems to have been no real insistence on the part of the Bank to ensure
that the Borrower complied with the loan covenants. In the earlier years of
implementation this seemed not to be an issue, for although compliance was
often late there was reporting. During the mid years reporting was non-existent.



51
There was no compliance with loan covenants and no explanation was provided
to the Bank. Project Audits were submitted up to one (1) year late. Compliance
was improved in the latter years as the project benefited from the Quarterly
Review Meetings instituted by the Planning Institute of Jamaica and the
Bank. The assignment of a Resident Task Manager by the Bank also had a
positive effect on issues relating to implementation.
BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Borrower: The Ministry commenced the implementation of the project
satisfactorily. A Project Coordinator was appointed before the commencement of
the project. Under his guidance the project seems to have been properly
managed. Quarterly  reports were prepared which paid special attention to
compliance with loan covenants as well as to the physical and financial
performance of the project. After two years in implementation the Project
Coordinator resigned. Over the next eighteen months there was not a dedicated
project Official appointed to oversee the project, hence coordination of the sub-
components was absent. There are no comprehensive documented reports of
the project activities during that period. There is no indication that any
management meetings for the project were held during that period and no
attention was paid to the compliance with loan covenants. During the final two
years of the project a Coordinator was contracted. There is evidence that efforts
were made to correct errors over the previous period of poor management.
Bank: During the implementation of the project the Bank appointed five (5) Task
Managers. There was significant loss of continuity in the supervisory aspect on
the part of the Bank over the life of the project. Supervision missions were
infrequent and as such the Bank was not able to institute the required feedback
mechanisms to effectively supervise the project.  The appointment of a local
Task Manager during the final eighteen months of the project contributed to
improvements in the implementation process.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Government is committed to the Sustainability of the gains achieved under the
project. This is demonstrated by the plans for financing road maintenance and
construction projects in the sector, utilizing cost recovery modalities. In terms of
institutional strengthening, the Ministry of Local Govemment and Works is
scheduled to benefit under the Public Sector Modemization Program.
URBAN TRANSPORT



52
During the latter part of 1992 the Kingston Urban Transport Project (KUTP)
loan was amended to facilitate the participation of the private sector in the
transport sector. On closure of the KUTP in 1993, two components were
transferred to RIPMP viz, the Transport Sector Study and feasibility study for
a toll road from Spanish Town to Saint Ann's Bay and the implementation of
the recommended franchise rationalization. The two feasibility studies are
completed and await Govemment's signaling its non objection to the
advancement of these to the design stage. The development of these projects
will have a positive impact on road development.
There were two (2) sub-components under the consultancy for the Transport
Sector Study:
1:   a comprehensive review of all roads transportation
2:   the implementation of a rationalized bus system
A number of recommendations came out of these studies:
1   Strengthening of the staff of the Ministry of Public Utilities & Transport
(MPU&T) and the Transport Authority
2   All Transport services to be provided by the private Sector with no
Government subsidy
3   Government to maintain a business environment conducive to encouraging
long term private investment in the transport sector,
The results of these recommendations, which have been implemented in
varying degrees, were:
1.  The bus franchise rationalization
2.  Partial strengthening of the Transport Authority
3 .. Strengthening of MPUT through the provision of thirty-two (32) man-
months of a transport Specialist
4.  Divestment of the National Airline.
5.  Serious efforts to divest the Railway System and to fully privatize the
Island Traffic Authority



53
The rapid process of privatization being implemented in the economy is a
paradigm shift which impacted negatively on the rate of changes especially in the
transport sector. Govemment is cognizant of its role in facilitating the transition of
sector to private entrepreneur and has instituted appropriate measures to reduce
the obstacles.
LESSONS LEARNED
1.  Project Design
The project design, while flexible, is flawed to the extent that accountability
and coordination on the part of the Borrower were not adequately planned. This
resulted in lapses in the reporting and compliance procedures to the Bank and
local authorities. In the final analysis it was difficult to track the progress of the
project effectively. In the design of future projects this flexibility should not be
ruled out, however effective systems should be put in place to prevent a repeat of
the accountability and coordination questions raised in this project.
2.  Project Management
Proper project management is a basic requirement for the implementation
process. The non-existence of such a requirement for eighteen months was
undesirable and should not have been allowed. Under such conditions a poor
performance in implementation is inevitable. Government and the Bank should
be cognizant of the above issue in the management of future projects. The area
of project management will be addressed under the Public Sector Modernization
Project.
3.  Supervision
Consistency in Bank supervision is an important element in project
implementation. In this regard the Bank failed to provide proper supervision. The
changing of five Task Managers during the period of implementation had a
negative impact on the project being brought to fruition. The Bank should be
aware of its supervision role in the implementation process of future projects.
The recently instituted Quarterly Review Meeting by the Planning Institute of
Jamaica will provide an early alert mechanism for corrective measures to be
taken where such lapses arise in the implementation of future projects.



54
Planning Institute of Jamaica
1997, June
Type Your Name Here
N:UAMAICA\ICR3275.DOC
Jun 25, 1997 11:17 AM












IMAGING
Report No.:          16773
Type:      ICR



