                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                       Report No: ICR000031


           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             ( IBRD-44850 IDA-32330 )

                                      ON A

                                 LOAN / CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF

                      US$16 MILLION AND SDR22.2 MILLION

                          (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR THE

        FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                   March 16, 2007




Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Office
East Asia and Pacific Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      ( Exchange Rate Effective January 22, 2007 )

                               Currency Unit = Yuan

                                    Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.13

                                     US$ 1.00 = Yuan 7.8

                                         Fiscal Year

                                  January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CPMO        Country Project Management Office
CPO         Central Project Office
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
DFID        UK Department for International Development
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
FYP         Five-Year Plan
GoC         Government of China
HDI         Human Development Index
JMP         Joint Monitoring Program
KASH        Knowledge and Advocacy for Sanitation and Hygiene
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs        Millennium Development Goals
MOH         Ministry of Health
NDRC        National Development & Reform Commission
NGOs        Non Government Organizations
NPO         National Project Office
NPHCCO      National Patriotic Health Campaign Coordination Office
NPV         Net Present Value
O&M         Operation and Monitoring
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objectives
PPMO        Provincial Project Management Office
PPIAF       Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PSP         Private Sector Participation
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
RWSS 4      Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
SARS        Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
UNICEF      United Nations Fund for Children
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
VCD         Video Compact Disk
WHO         World Health Organization



       Vice President:                          Mr. James Adams, EAPVP
       Country Director:                        Mr. David R. Dollar, EACCF
       Sector Director:                         Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
       Task Team Leader:                        Mr. Thomas L. Zearley, EASUR

                                                  China
                  FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis) . 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 27
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 38
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41
 Annex 9. Pictorial Evidence of the Project Activities and Achievements.................... 42

 MAP ­ IBRD 30180R

A. Basic Information

                                                                    FOURTH RURAL
Country:                China                 Project Name:         WATER SUPPLY
                                                                    PROJECT
                                                                    IBRD-44850, IDA-
Project ID:             P057352               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    32330
ICR Date:               03/05/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 46.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 43.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
National Project Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/20/1998    Effectiveness:       11/24/1999         11/24/1999
Appraisal:             03/29/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/03/1999    Mid-term Review:                        09/20/2002
                                     Closing:             06/30/2005         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                          3
Primary education                                               3
Sanitation                                                      3
Water supply                                                   91


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other human development                                      Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:           Keshav Varma                     Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:      Thomas L. Zearley                George N. Plant
ICR Team Leader:          Thomas L. Zearley
ICR Primary Author:       Joanna Mclean Smith

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of RWSS 4 was to reduce the time and cost for people in
poor rural areas to obtain clean, safe water supply, while improving related sanitation and
health behaviors through education and pilot investments.

The key (outcome/impact) performance indicators were:

1.     Number of villagers newly served by project-supplied water meeting national rural
water quality standards;
2 (a). Number of sanitary latrines constructed in villages in the project counties in
addition to the school and household demonstration latrines constructed in each village
under the project; and
2 (b). Percentage point improvement compared to the baseline period in key water-
related health behaviors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised during implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)            Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   # of villagers served by project supplied water meeting national rural water
                quality standards
Value                                       3.1 million in the
quantitative or 0                           four participating                  3.39 million
Qualitative)                                provinces
Date achieved 11/24/1999                    06/30/2006                          06/30/2006

Comments        The figures are the design capacity of the water supply facilities to be reached

(incl. %        over 10 to 15 years, which is 9% more than projected at appraisal. The number

achievement)    of villagers benefiting from project-supplied water by June 30, 2006 is 2.5
                million.
Indicator 2 :   # of sanitary latrines constructed in villages in the project counties
Value
quantitative or 0                           10,500                              17,552
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/24/1999                    06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The total number of latrines constructed both under the project and by villagers

achievement)    themselves was 67% more than projected at appraisal.

Indicator 3 :   % improvement in key water-related health behaviors
Value                                                                           Ranged from 9% to
quantitative or 0                           5%                                  33% compared to
Qualitative)                                                                    baseline period.
Date achieved 11/24/1999                    06/30/2006                          06/30/2006

Comments        For housewives washing hands before food preparation increased by 33%,

(incl. %        keeping dishware clean by 32% and keep water containers clean by 26%. For

achievement)    schoolchildren, knowledge of both washing hands before eating and after
                defecating increased by 9% and 35% respectively.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised         Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  # of water supply systems functioning
Value
(quantitative  0                          288                                 296
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/24/1999                  06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       By the end of the project, the number of water supply systems functioning was

achievement)   5% greater than targeted at appraisal.

Indicator 2 :  % of water systems meeting tariff covenant by the 2nd full fiscal year of
               operations
Value
(quantitative  0                          80%-100%                            52%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/24/1999                  06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Fujian ­ 100%; Guizhou ­ 83%; Hainan ­ 31%; Anhui ­ 31%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  # of sanitary school latrines constructed beyond project target
Value
(quantitative  0                          132                                 151
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/24/1999                  06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       A total of 19 school latrines were constructed beyond the project target, 14%

achievement)   more than targeted at appraisal.

Indicator 4 :  # of sanitary household latrines constructed beyond project target
Value
(quantitative  0                          NA                 10,542            17,401
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/24/1999                  06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       A total of 6859 latrines were built beyond the project target, 65% more than

achievement)   targeted at appraisal.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                             Actual
 No.   Date ISR
       Archived             DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                          (USD millions)
  1    06/24/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  2    12/23/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.16
  3    06/14/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.44
  4    12/06/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.83
  5    06/22/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             3.62
  6    12/04/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             5.63
  7    05/06/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             8.98
  8    11/27/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           14.13
  9    06/04/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           17.71
  10   10/30/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           21.27
  11   05/21/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           24.79
  12   11/05/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           28.39
  13   04/27/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           33.54
  14   11/30/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           39.18
  15   12/22/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           44.78

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




.

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

In the ten years prior to the start of the project, China had made significant gains in rural
water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion. Between 1985 and 1997, the number of
rural residents with convenient access to improved water [1]had more than tripled, to
over 848 million, or 88 percent of China's 954 million rural people. Of these,
approximately 407 million people (48 percent of those with access to improved water)
were drinking piped water. The remaining 441 million (52 percent of those with access
to improved water) were using a variety of other sources, including hand pumps, shallow
and deep wells and rainwater collectors.

Safe Water Supply. Having access to an improved water sources, however, is not
equivalent to having access to safe water. While almost all piped water systems meet the
government's standards for safe water quality, the same is not true for hand pumps and
other systems. At the project start, only about 95 million beneficiaries of non-piped
systems enjoyed access to safe water. The remaining 346 million rural residents used
water which was improved, but nevertheless still did not meet the standards for safe
water. Therefore, despite progress, more than 450 million rural Chinese continued to
suffer from unsafe or insufficient water supplies at the time when the project began.

Sanitation and Hygiene. Traditionally, households use human waste as fertilizer, often
without treatment. The main objectives of sanitation improvements were therefore to
improve the standard of latrines and to make excreta reuse practices more hygienic. By
1997, 90 percent of rural households had some sort of household latrine, but most of
these facilities were rudimentary at best. Only 29 percent of the rural population used
'sanitary latrines', usually defined as latrines with full walls and roofs, odorless and
insect-free. The government of China (GoC) has made a concerted effort to promote
good health-related behaviors. In rural areas, health education campaigns had been
carried out by a number of government line agencies as well as non-governmental
organizations (NGOs).

Bank's Rationale for Involvement. The sustainable supply of safe water, sanitary latrines
and hygiene promotion services to rural people was and remains a high priority for the
GoC. However, at the time the project was being designed, there had been little direct
financing from the central government for rural water supply and sanitation. The
majority of financing instead came from local government subsidies and user
contributions. The IBRD loan and IDA credit, together with government counterpart
financing, reduced the level of beneficiary upfront capital contributions required.
Without this, most project villages would not have been able to invest in water supply
improvements. The Bank was also able to support government efforts by bringing in
international experience on the issues of health, sanitation education and improving
technical aspects of water supply plants.



                                                1

This project was the fourth project in a series of projects (Rural Water Supply Project
1985 - 1991 [Credit 1578-CHA], Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project [Credit
2336-CHA] and the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project [Cr.N027-
CHA]), since 1985, supporting GoC's efforts to improve the living standards of rural
populations through access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene promotion. The Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS 1997 ­ 2002) highlighted human development as one of the
five major themes in Bank support. Within that theme, poverty reduction played a major
role.

[1]Convenient access refers to access (within one kilometer of the dwelling) to an adequate
amount of water (at least 20 liters a person a day). An improved source refers to a household
connection, public standpipe, borehole, protected well or spring and rainwater
collection. Unimproved sources include vendors, tanker trucks and unprotected wells and springs.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of RWSS 4 was to reduce the time and cost for people in poor
rural areas to obtain clean, safe water supply, while improving related sanitation and
health behaviors through education and pilot investments.

The key (outcome/impact) performance indicators were:
1.    Number of villagers newly served by project-supplied water meeting national rural
      water quality standards;
2 (a). Number of sanitary latrines constructed in villages in the project counties in
      addition to the school and household demonstration latrines constructed in each
      village under the project; and
2 (b). Percentage point improvement compared to the baseline period in key water-related
      health behaviors.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised during implementation. However, after the
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2003, the Ministry of Health
requested a reallocation of US$ 3.65 million from this IDA Credit for a SARS prevention
program. Upon IDA's approval, a fourth component was added and the Credit Agreement
was amended to include the following objective: "...to assist the Borrower in carrying out
a program to control and manage the incidence and spread of SARS and infectious
diseases". This component is ongoing and will be covered under the ICR for the Basic
Health Services Project (Cr. 3075-CHA).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project investment strategy targeted benefits on selected poor villages in the
provinces of Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou and Hainan. The principle aim was to provide
access to safe, conveniently located water to 3.1 million poor people in these provinces,
and to improve related water and sanitation practices. Government staff from the



                                                 2

departments and bureaus of health and water resources and water plant managers,
operators and accountants would also benefit from the project through training and
capacity building.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Water Supply Component (US$74.2 million). This component was for providing safe
water, sustainably financed, to poor communities lacking such supplies. The component
included both piped (planned to serve over 99 percent of beneficiaries) as well as non-
piped systems (i.e. hand pumps and rainwater containers). This component also provided
support for training of water system managers, operators, and accountants to ensure low
cost operation and project sustainability.

Sanitation and Hygiene Education Component (US$7.3 million). This component
assisted ongoing rural sanitation and health education efforts. This component provided
assistance by working with primary school teachers, village doctors, Women's Federation
representatives and public health systems to improve rural water use and sanitation
practices. It included support to demonstration programs to increase use of improved
household and school latrines. It also included health education messages aimed at
expanding the adoption of improved sanitation and hygiene practices among target
beneficiaries and training of health education specialists.

Project Management Component (US$4.9 million). This component was to support an
increase in project office capacity at national, provincial and county levels and to provide
services to beneficiary villages. It encompassed training in project management skills
such as procurement, financial management, water supply technologies, water quality
protection, and health education. The component also included baseline and follow-up
surveys and research on effective strategies to expand adoption of improved sanitation
and to convey hygiene messages.

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were not revised during implementation. However, after the
SARS outbreak in 2003, the Guizhou Provincial Project Management Office (PPMO)
allocated US$3.65 million to support the local SARS and Infectious Diseases Response
Program. Given project cost savings in the province, this reallocation did not have a
negative impact on project implementation. Only about SDR 600,000 (US$ 840,000
equivalent) were actually drawn down by the SARS program. The remaining US$ 2.81
million of project funds were then reallocated to Zhengan County (an existing project
county) and to an additional eight new project counties in Guizhou Province.

1.7 Other significant changes

Change to Participating Counties. Anhui Province substituted Mengcheng County for
Guichi County in March 2000 due to a lack of counterpart funds in Guichi County.
Guizhou reallocated part of the loan/credit proceeds to eight additional counties and
Hainan to one additional county. Steps were taken to ensure the original poverty


                                              3

selection criteria were followed. The total number of participating counties increased
from 27 at appraisal to 36 by loan closing.

Closing Date Extensions. The closing date was initially extended 12 months to allow for
full achievement of project objectives. The second extension for six months was required
only for Credit 3233 to allow the SARS component to be implemented.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The scope of the project was highly consistent with the government plans of the time and
was also in line with the emerging priorities of a newly elected government with a
strengthened mandate for reforms. The GoC was beginning to prepare for the Tenth Five
Year Plan (2001 -2005) which focused on lagging central and western provinces and
increasing investment in physical infrastructure. The project concepts and objectives
were also in step with the Bank's CAS of 1997 and progress report of 1998, which both
supported GoC in sustaining poverty reduction and rural development while reducing
bottlenecks in infrastructure provision. The project supported the strategy outlined in the
CAS for `focusing on shortages that have constrained growth and affected the quality of
life', including water supply, sanitation, drainage - a strategy which mirrored the main
concerns of the government.

The project was built on the foundations of a well-established relationship with the
central government in the sector and consolidated the lessons learned from previous
projects. Two key lessons incorporated into the design of the project were the need to
further improve and monitor the sustainability of water supply schemes and the need to
include project training for water plants managers, operators and accountants. A better
analysis of the roles, responsibilities and incentives of the national and provincial
institutions involved, could have helped identify options for improving capacity for
supervision and reporting and the option of decentralizing more responsibility for
procurement from the central level to the provinces.

From the Bank side, project preparation and design was led by a sector specialist and the
preparation was thoroughly reviewed at key stages by peer reviewers with financial,
economic and sector experience. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review
quality-at-entry. Careful consideration was given to all safeguard issues and clear
provisions were made for adhering to Bank safeguards policies as presented below.

Environment. The Bank classified the project as category "B" because of potential
adverse impacts from construction or a failure to protect water sources. A detailed
environmental mitigation plan formed part of the project implementation plan. This
included a set of design, construction, operation and supervision guidelines that would
allow the project to meet the goals of both the Chinese and Bank environmental policy.




                                               4

Land Acquisition/Resettlement. In expectation of modest but unknown land acquisition
and resettlement impacts during implementation, a Policy Framework for Compensation,
Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons was developed and agreed
during negotiations. This framework complied with Bank requirements on involuntary
resettlement and was fully endorsed by the client. Each RAP would be reviewed by the
respective PPMO and the National Project Office (NPO) for conformity to the framework.

Indigenous Peoples. A screening process identified ethnic minorities in three out of the
four provinces. In Guizhou Province, ethnic minorities made up the majority of the
beneficiaries. The Bank approach was to target ethnic minorities as project beneficiaries,
due to their poverty status. In view of this approach and the participatory design of the
project, a separate minority peoples' development plan was unnecessary.

Risk Assessment. The assumptions made at appraisal reflected a strong understanding of
past performance in the sector. The project foresaw the government restructuring which
was set to begin in 1999 and identified the potential risk to full staffing of PMOs and the
need for close monitoring of this. However, more stringent mitigation measures for over
optimistic projections of beneficiary consumption levels, leading to system over-design
and difficulties in cost recovery could have been better identified.

2.2 Implementation

(i) Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency. Two key
factors which were outside the control of government or implementing agencies affected
implementation. The first factor was the outbreak of SARS in 2003. During this time,
movement around the country was extremely limited, Bank operations were scaled down
and the project staff were limited in their availability to travel over a six-month
period. The second key factor was natural disasters. Most provinces were affected by
typhoons and droughts and these had short-term negative impacts on the functioning of
the water plants in some areas, particularly during droughts when groundwater levels
became low. In November 2003, typhoon Nepartak affected nearly 2 million people and
destroyed nearly 1,000 homes in Hainan Island. The storm also affected many reservoirs
across the province but fortunately there were no long-term effects in project areas.
Another big typhoon hit Hainan province in September 2005 and also affected Fujian
province but was less detrimental than the one in 2003.

(ii) Factors subject to government control. Firstly, a number of key sector policies and
plans issued by the central government favored project implementation. Clear, specific
targets for improvements in both safe domestic water supply and hygienic sanitation
services were set. There is a strong awareness of those targets and strong commitment by
officials at central, provincial and local levels to achieve them. Secondly, however,
ongoing water quality management still requires further attention. Thirdly, shortfalls in
counterpart funding in some counties led to delays in project implementation and the
contracting of civil works as well as the need to identify additional counties. Finally,
clarity on the issue of water treatment plant ownership could have strengthened post-




                                               5

construction management arrangements, leading to greater commitment, sustainability
and better service.

(iii) Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. Project management
was reasonably effective and the coordination role of the NPO was particularly important
in a project covering four provinces. However, there was some inefficiency in the overall
reporting system established and progress reporting and audit reports were often tardy.
The PPMOs played an important role in coordinating the many project counties and
played an essential role in guiding county level implementation and transferring
information about project principles and techniques. Project progress relied a great deal
on the enthusiasm of the provincial staff and the time they devoted to working with the
County PMOs (CPMOs). Given the number of project counties and the remoteness of
project sites, the support and oversight in the design of schemes and post-construction
management varied. If further project funds had been allocated to project authorities to
capacity building activities, greater support could have been given to improving the
management of water plants in terms of financial management and accounting practices.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Due to a lack of existing data sources for monitoring project progress, a project-based
M&E system was designed at appraisal (or during implementation). In comparison to the
previous Bank-support rural water projects, the design of the M&E system was
significantly improved. In addition, baseline and follow-up surveys were designed which
would provide a more in-depth assessment of the project outcomes in a sample of villages.
There was still room for improvement in the design of the indicators and M&E system
and further input in the implementation phase was required.

During implementation it became clear that some of the basic information required for
monitoring the project was not available, such as current number of people with access to
water and the financial performance of water plants. Basic formats for reporting legal
covenants and safeguard requirements also required improvement during implementation.
The supervision teams made efforts to improve the reporting formats over time and used
these as a basis for providing recommendations during supervision missions. However,
progress reporting was delayed on a number of occasions and the information available
did not completely meet requirements for monitoring and evaluation. While the M&E
system has basically served the purposes of project supervision and evaluation and will
be used in the short term for project monitoring, the NPO has already identified the need
for long-term follow up review and evaluation of the project impacts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The actual responsibilities for land acquisition
rested with the CPMOs and during implementation were guided by a Resettlement Policy
Framework. The PPO and NPO were to review conformity to the framework.
Considerable flexibility existed in the siting of the water supply plants so that housing or
other buildings did not need to be acquired and no-one needed to be relocated. Use of
cultivated land was difficult to avoid and required that occupants be compensated to a


                                              6

level that maintained or increased their standard of living. In general, the resettlement
impact of the project was deemed to be very minor. Supervision missions independently
investigated land acquisition and followed up any issues that deviated from the agreed
framework. These are discussed below.

During the project mid-term review, the Bank team identified a number of land
acquisition issues were identified, including: a) incorrect application of land
compensation rates; b) inadequate payment to village land owners; c) lack of legal land
approval documentation; d) unrealistic data in the reports submitted; and e) application of
old tables of land acquisition for reporting at provincial and county level. In order to
improve compliance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, the Bank requested that all
CPMOs provide information about rehabilitation and compensation and prepare county
summaries for all water plants completed. The PPMOs then collated all information and
submitted it to the NPO for review. The Bank also increased the frequency of
resettlement supervisions missions.

Land acquisition reporting still required regular review and follow up by the Bank and
some problems lingered with the county supervision of land acquisition. Therefore, the
following steps were taken: a) the CPMOs collected and kept all copies of contracts and
disbursement receipts related to land compensation and provided the PPMOs/NPO with
timely information; b) compensation gaps were identified and remedied; and c) all land
acquired under the project had to receive formal approval from the County Land Bureau.
Reporting improved and towards the end of the project, land compensation for each water
supply scheme was reinvestigated and was confirmed sufficient.

Environment. The project's environmental impact was substantially positive. The
scheme design stage was a critical period for recognizing and mitigating environmental
problems and a number of organizations shared this responsibility depending on the
system size and complexity. Guizhou Province also mobilized an expert team and a
construction supervision company to ensure quality of project design and construction.
During supervision, the Bank specialists recommended further improvements to
environmental standards on a case by case basis, particularly during construction to
protect water sources post-construction and to monitor water quality. However, towards
the end of the project, the NPO reported that water source protection still needed further
strengthening and water quality monitoring at the household tap should be carried out
more regularly to determine if corrective actions are needed.

Auditing Requirements. Audit reports based on the project financial statements were
due within six months after the end of each calendar year. While these were always
submitted, Guizhou and Anhui provinces consistently handed them in late. While the
disclosure of issues within the audit reports was satisfactory, the response by the NPO
and PPMOs to the issues raised was less so. General issues raised on a reoccurring basis
included: a) lack or shortage of counterpart funds which affected the progress of the
project; b) protracted procurement and management of materials resulting in the supply
of materials not keeping pace with the projects progress; and c) improvements required in
project accounting and management, particularly at county level.



                                              7

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The NPO, in consultation with the participating provinces, has given careful attention to
the transition arrangements for the project after implementation and has prepared a policy
framework for its continued operation. This is based on existing policies and regulations
governing the rural water supply and sanitation sector and can be summarized as follows:
a) the operation and maintenance costs of the project-financed water supply plants are
financed by beneficiaries through water tariffs which are regulated by County Price
Bureaus; b) appropriate institutional and management approaches are adopted in
accordance with local conditions and involvement by local operators is permitted; c)
water is seen as an economic good and providers of water supply services are allowed to
recover costs and make profits from their operations; d) sector subsidies from provincial
and local governments are considered only in exceptional cases; e) hiring of water plant
staff is competitive; f) capacity building in management, engineering and financial issues
is introduced for every water supply provider; g) water quality is the responsibility of the
water supply providers and is monitored independently the by County Health Bureaus.
The water supply provider is responsible for responding accordingly to the results of the
independent water quality monitoring; and h) the National Patriotic Health Campaign
Committee Office (NPHCCO) provides technical guidance and develops technical
standards for constructing and maintaining sanitary latrines.

The basic operation model applied to the project is for county/township administrations
to take over the management and operation of the water plants and for households to
maintain latrines. However, timely physical reviews of water facilities, which are
required for the proper accounting and transfer of completed schemes, need to be
conducted more expeditiously. Water tariffs are being regularly collected and are
generally able to cover operation and maintenance costs. In terms of the management
arrangements, innovative variations are being experimented with. With the support of a
grant from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), the Bank was
able to assist two provinces in drafting model management contracts on performance-
based terms and for developing transparent bidding processes. A national workshop was
held in 2005, which brought together representatives from 21 provinces to share the
experiences learned from the PPIAF-funded pilot. In particular, the pilot provided
lessons on a) drafting and agreeing lease/affermage and management contracts, on
performance-based terms, between water plant managers and county governments; and b)
developing and carrying out transparent bidding processes. All provinces reported the
usefulness of this pilot but also highlighted the need for greater leadership by local
government authorities to ensure transparency and accountability in applying these.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project remained consistent with Bank priorities through both a subsequent CAS
(2003 - 2005) and the most current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS 2006 ­ 2010).
Pillar 2 of the current CPS is poverty, inequality and social exclusion which are still well-



                                              8

aligned to the project's development objective. In addition, despite being prepared in
advance on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the project is extremely well-
aligned with global priorities and the targets set for the MDGs. The project has supported
the government in working towards both these global targets and those set out in its Five-
Year Plans (FYP). The Bank and GoC kept the project relevant to the reform needs of
the sector, notably in the development of alternative private sector management models.
Given the great need to improve the efficiency of the sector, more innovative models for
managing water supply facilities will be key.

By the end of 2005, there were still about 312 million rural people reportedly without
access to safe water supply and 790 million rural residents without improved sanitation.
Providing these basic services remains a high priority for GoC. The GoC's Eleventh Five
Year Plan (2006-2010) for Rural Safe Drinking Water Supply has a target of providing
drinking water to 160 million additional people. The plan emphasizes that poorer
western regions, areas with serious water scarcity and quality problems, ethnic minority
areas and rural schools will receive assistance. This project has provided lessons for the
proposed Western Regions Rural Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion
Project, which will directly assist the GoC in meeting its FYP targets.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
ICR Rating: Overall achievement of Project Development Objectives is satisfactory.

(a) Reducing the time and cost for people in poor areas to obtain clean, safe water
supply. The baseline survey found that prior to the provision of water supply through
household connections, households were spending significant time collecting water from
sources. Households were spending an average of between one hour and one-and-a-half
hours per day, depending on the season, collecting water, some considerably more. All
households connected to the systems received a pipe connection to the household or yard;
so the time previously used to collect water can now be used for more productive
purposes or for leisure or childcare.

The water supply schemes built under the project are designed to provide water to a total
of 3.4 million people once they have reached their full design capacity. The design
capacity of the water supply facilities is normally reached over a 10 to 15 year period. In
terms of the number of villagers newly served by project-supplied water meeting
national rural water quality standards by the end of the project period, the estimated
number is 2.5 million or about 75% of the design population. Further details of the
beneficiary numbers by province are provided in Annex 1.

During the follow-up survey, households who had not connected to the systems were
asked about their reasons for not connecting. Their responses included that: a) piped
networks had not yet connected to their area; b) the connection fees or tariffs were too
high (affordability issues); and c) they preferred to use existing sources (lacked
willingness to connect). The project was implemented in poor counties in all provinces,
so project beneficiaries are all relatively poor. It is likely that some of the households not
connecting to the system are very poor. High connection fees are one of the main barriers



                                              9

preventing poor households from connecting to the piped water supply systems and these
fees varied widely from place to place. The detailed results of the survey are provided in
Annex 8.

Another supporting objective was to provide water at the lowest possible cost and to
ensure its sustainability through good maintenance and accounting practices. The
achievement of this objective is generally satisfactory. The project set improved
engineering design standards and established a rigorous review process to ensure least
cost solutions in providing piped water supply. Where these were followed and enforced
by the county and provincial PMOs, the systems were able to supply water at a low
cost. The majority of water plants followed rational design standards but where the
expected demand for piped water supply and/or the beneficiary consumption levels were
over-estimated, the systems did not always meet design expectations. Therefore, the
capacity utilization of some plants was lower than expected. In these cases, the price of
providing water to households was higher than expected. Financial record keeping for
the water plants improved during the project and, in general, was satisfactory.

A key indicator for the water supply component was the percentage of water systems
meeting the tariff covenant by the second full fiscal year of operation. It was expected
that after the second full fiscal year of operation, water charges would be established and
collected annually at a level to cover O&M costs, administrative costs, taxes, and the
greater of either interest charges and depreciation or debt service requirements. While it
was not expected that all plants falling under this category would be able to meet the
tariff covenant, the final percentage was less than the targeted level of 80 to 100%. The
final assessment by the NPO found that 52% of the water plants falling into the two year
category are meeting the tariff covenant. However, this varied greatly among the four
provinces with Fujian and Guizhou both meeting the targeted level of 80 to 100% and
Anhui and Hainan falling well below the target levels, with only 31% of water plants in
both provinces meeting the tariff covenant. The reasons for the differences between the
provinces can be attributed to some of the factors raised in the previous paragraph.

Over 80% of all plants operating for two years or more were covering operation and
maintenance costs, which is the critical factor in terms of the sustainability of the water
supply systems. The tariff covenant used for this project is the same as used for urban
water supply projects financed by the Bank. In hindsight, it was unrealistic to have
expected that water supply schemes in the project in poor rural counties would be able to
meet this tariff covenant. The fact that around 50% of water supply schemes are also
covering depreciation and debt servicing is an even better outcome. The table below
summarizes information on the tariff covenant for each province, separating this out to
highlight the percentage of schemes meeting operation and maintenance costs and the
percentage covering the full tariff covenant.




                                              10

Table 1: Percentage of Water Supply Plants Meeting the Tariff Covenant by the
Second Full Fiscal Year of Operation.
                                      Anhui       Fujian     Guizhou      Hainan       Total
Total Number of Water Supply            89          64          51           99        303
Plants
Number Operating for Two Years          52          28          18           39        137
or more
Number Operating for Two Years          29          28          17           39        113
or more Meeting O&M Costs             (56%)       (100%)       (94%)       (100%)     (82%)
and % of total
Number Operating for Two Years          16          28          15           12         71
or more and Meeting the full Tariff   (31%)       (100%)       (83%)        (31%)     (52%)
Covenant, and % of total

(b) Improving sanitation and health behaviors through education and pilot
investments. Progress reporting recorded the number of sanitary latrines constructed in
villages in the project counties in addition to the school and household demonstration
latrines constructed in each village under the project. The progress reports have shown
that the number of household latrines being built in project villages in addition to those
financed by the project has been considerable, about one-third more than targeted.
According to surveys from a sample of villages, the overall rate of having a basic latrine
in the village has increased from 77% during the baseline survey to 93% in the follow-up
survey. The coverage of sanitary latrines (meeting government standards) has grown
from 10% at baseline to 37% in the follow-up survey. The most recent national figures
for access to improved sanitation suggest an increase from 7% in 1990 to 31% by 2005.
Therefore, the coverage of sanitary latrines in project villages is higher than the most
recent national estimates of access to improved sanitation. In relation to school latrines,
this indicator was less relevant as schools are not in such a good position to mobilize
funds for sanitation.

In relation to the number of villagers using their own resources to construct additional
sanitary latrines, progress reports show that around 7000 villagers have built latrines
using their own resources and the technical assistance provided by the project. Further
evidence suggests that coverage of both basic and sanitary latrines in the project villages
has increased, but directly attributing the construction of new latrines to the
demonstration latrines is uncertain. However, given that government financing for rural
sanitation is limited and the majority of financing for rural sanitary latrines comes from
either village committee funds or users themselves, it is likely that most of the latrines
were built with village or user funds. The cost of demonstration facilities is still high
compared to villagers' annual disposable income, and there were limited means of
providing financing for these assets to non-demonstration households or information on
how to purchase and construct low-cost sanitary latrines.

In relation to improvements in key water-related health behaviors in the project,
progress reports suggest that overall health behaviors have exceeded the targeted
improvement of 5%. Hygiene promotion has been a key part of efforts to improve health
through investments in safe water and sanitary latrines. The baseline and follow-up



                                             11

surveys have provided information on behavior change in key target members of the
population, including housewives and schoolchildren. The results of the survey are
provided in detail in Annex 8, and are summarized below.

For housewives, the level of health knowledge was already very high at the start of the
project but appears to have increased markedly. The practice of washing hands before
food preparation across the provinces ranged between 37 - 70% during the baseline
survey. This increased to 80 - 93% by the follow-up survey. The practice of keeping
dishware clean has increased from between 50 - 73% during the baseline to 93 - 98%
during the follow-up survey. The practice of not wiping dishware with cloth (which are
generally very dirty) has increased from between 59 - 78% during the baseline survey to
91 - 98% during the follow-up period.

For schoolchildren, the baseline and follow up surveys also looked at the status of school
latrines, hand-washing facilities, health education and the health knowledge of students.
The survey found that approximately 94% of the surveyed school latrines were kept
clean and approximately 86% of the schools had hand-washing facilities. The proportion
of schools having health education courses has increased from 60% during the baseline
to 94% during follow-up survey. The proportion of schools having health education
homework or tests has increased from 32% to 66%. In terms of students' knowledge of
good behaviors, the knowledge of washing hands was very high in both baseline and
follow-up surveys, over 90% in the baseline survey and over 99% during follow-up
survey. The knowledge of washing hands after defecating has increased from a low level,
ranging from 40% to 63% during the baseline to a range of 78% to 95% during the
follow-up survey. Hand washing, in particular, is expected to have a significant positive
impact on health outcomes.

3.3 Efficiency

No NPV, ERR or FRR was calculated for the project at the time of preparing the PAD
and available data were insufficient to carry out a detailed economic analysis of the
project at closing. It was decided that generating the information required to calculate
NPVs for each of the water supply systems would be excessively costly, and nearly
impossible to calculate at an acceptable level of certainty. As an alternative, villages
were required to pass a test of revealed demand ­ a willingness to supply capital and levy
water tariffs that cover the full operating costs of and loans incurred by the system. Thus,
the water supply investments would be justified in terms of private demand.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was highly consistent with the CAS and remains relevant in the CPS, which
both emphasized rural development and improving living standards in China's poor
provinces. The key aims of reducing the time and costs for people in rural areas in
obtaining safe water and improving sanitation and hygiene practices have been achieved
for a significant number of people.



                                              12

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty ­ The project was in the Bank's program of poverty targeted interventions. It
was targeted at poor villages where households were spending a great deal of time and
effort in collecting water from the source. Access to safe water and appropriate
sanitation and hygiene services leads to significant health benefits to the poor. It is well-
recognized that poor families suffer worse health conditions than those with higher
incomes. Improvements in health result in more productive days available, particularly
for poor households. Household spending on medicines can be a significant proportion
of their disposable income; health improvements, therefore, can reduce medical
expenditures, thereby generating significant cash savings.

Education­ Safe water and access to sanitation increase the opportunity for children to
attend school, especially girls. The project provided gender-segregated school latrines
with handwashing facilities and provided targeted health education activities in schools in
collaboration with teachers. Reducing the incidence of water-related illnesses and
diseases can in turn reduce the number of days lost through illness and improve student
performance in general.

Gender ­ Access to conveniently located water supply reduces the burden of domestic
tasks and frees up time for children and for economic activity, particularly for
women. While many domestic tasks in rural China are shared between male and female
household members, the absence of many male household members due to out-migration
means the burden for water collection, cooking and cleaning duties, childcare and
firewood collection often falls on women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Given the limited amount of investment for rural water supply, sanitation and hygiene
promotion, to date, the project has demonstrated improved ways of implementation. In
particular, the capacity of local institutions to deliver improved water supply and
sanitation services has improved as a result of the project. It has also demonstrated how
to bring together different sectors involved in implementing water supply, sanitation and
hygiene promotion investments through one program. One area that has seen particular
innovation, in regard to the long-term development of rural water supply and sanitation,
is the piloting of Private Sector Participation (PSP) models. Also, a concerted effort was
made during the project to identify training needs for water supply plant operators and
staff. In particular, training around operational sustainability and improved management
practices, especially financial management and accounting activities was carried out.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Enterprise development. In addition to an increase in household productive activities,
one positive spin-off of the project is the establishment of small, local, private and
township enterprises. Anecdotal evidence from a survey of the wider economic benefits



                                               13

of the project, carried out by the NPO, revealed that this was a common occurrence. The
provision of conveniently located water supplies of sufficient quantity and quality
provides business opportunities which previously did not exist. The PMOs also noted that
the steady water consumption of township and private enterprises helped to guarantee the
water plant revenue in the early stages when water consumption from households was
low. One example is the establishment of a small tannery in Youmei village, Pinghe
County, Fujian Province which is supplied by the Wuzhai Water Supply Plant. The
establishment of the tannery has had positive benefits in terms of employment for local
residents. Another example is Yingzhou town, Lingshui County of Hainan Province
which is now engaging in vegetable farming and fisheries. Prior to the project, vegetables
and marine products could not be rinsed and iced, resulting in poor quality products
going to market, low prices and limited levels of production. Since the construction of
the project water plant, a terminal market for rinsing vegetables and a fishery have been
opened, which has provided employment for local residents.

Environmental concerns. While the provision of improved water supply has promoted
the development of local small-sized enterprises, some of these are pollution-generating
enterprises which require significant quantities of water. If the development of enterprises
is a positive spin-off of the project, then the potential for these to consume large
quantities of water and to pollute the environment through the discharge of untreated
waste water is a potential negative consequence if not dealt with properly. Thus, local
government and related departments need to strictly regulate the use of water resources
and the production of waste water from enterprises in project areas. In relation to those
users with a high demand for water, government departments will have to take a long
term, developmental view to managing water resources to ensure that rural residents have
priority over pursuing economic benefits in the short term.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

While this was a core ICR, given that the Bank has supported rural water supply,
sanitation and hygiene promotion projects in China for over two decades, it was felt
worthwhile to specifically consider the experiences of the project implementing agencies
and beneficiaries. Client feedback is detailed in Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

China bears no foreseen risks in terms of political or economic instability which would
negatively impact the development outcome of the project. GoC ownership of the project
is strong and increasing access to water and sanitation services remain a high priority for
government at all levels. The legislation supporting the sector is well developed and
government staff have sufficient capacity to support the project in future. There are a
number of reforms in the water and sanitation sector which will further support the
project's outcomes, including development of a more integrated approach to water supply,
sanitation and hygiene promotion. For beneficiaries and local stakeholders the benefits
brought by access to safe water are clear.



                                               14

The rate at which household connections increase may determine how long it will take
some water supply schemes to become financially viable. While not all water supply
schemes are meeting the full financial sustainability covenant, a high proportion are
covering operation and maintenance costs after two years of operation. This sets a good
basis for the sustainability of the systems. This sustainability covenant, which is used in
urban water supply projects, should be carefully reviewed for any future rural water
supply project and revised according to the rural context. The risk of natural disasters,
given previous experience in the provinces, is present, but, it is difficult to evaluate the
impact of a future natural disaster on the development outcome of the project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The project design and preparation were supported by a team of Bank experts with a
range of appropriate skills and with a careful assessment of the previous three
projects. There was clear step-by-step lesson learning between the previous projects, and
this project included substantial improvements, such as: training for water plant operators,
new approaches to both sanitation and hygiene, and advanced surveying methods. In
terms of the tariff covenant, RWSS 4 adopted a covenant that is more commonly used in
urban water supply schemes and should have been more appropriate to the rural sector.

In terms of safeguards and fiduciary requirements, these were adequately addressed at the
preparation stage. Issues arising during implementation were difficult to control for
during preparation or appraisal. However, further improvements could have been made to
the institutional arrangements, in terms of developing new, more effective management
and reporting structures by further decentralizing procurement responsibilities to
provincial levels and below. The project could have done more to formally bring in wider
technical departments at the provincial and local levels to support the project and to better
integrate water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion services. Strong integration of
these services helps to maximize the potential health impacts. Integration of these
services requires that all technical agencies have clear roles and responsibilities in project
preparation and implementation from the beginning and are represented in the PMOs.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision missions were consistently carried out twice each year, apart from a small
disruption due to the SARS outbreak. Supervision missions were well-staffed and
maintained a sound relationship with the project offices nationally and within the
provinces. Despite the number of provinces and counties as well as budget constraints
supervision missions were able to cover the majority of project counties. The expertise
of the team members was high and the teams averaged five members per mission and
included a good mix of international and national expertise. The project supervision was


                                              15

always field-based (in Beijing) which helped to resolve issues quickly. Specific technical
RWSS expertise was brought in from the Bank's headquarters to support the project and
a Chinese speaking international engineer was also enlisted as a consultant to improve
communications and quality control. However, the task team leader did change several
times and this caused some dissatisfaction from the borrower.

The early supervision missions concentrated on implementation issues such as
construction standards, procurement and safeguards requirements, while later missions
looked at broader issues such as reporting requirements, management arrangements and
procedures, water plant accounting, improving design standards and the development of
private sector models and sustainability. The sharing of lessons on the private sector
models nationally was an important benefit of the support provided by the Bank, made
possible with a PPIAF grant. Interactions with wider donors, including the UK
Department for International Development and the UN Fund for Children (UNICEF) who
were invited on supervision missions provided additional expertise. One area where the
Bank could have performed better was in communications with senior levels in the
Ministry of Health regarding key lessons from the project which could be fed into policy
development for the sector. This lesson was raised by the borrower at the end of the
project and has been factored into the proposed Western Provinces Rural Water Supply,
Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion Project (FY07) which will look at replication of
project lessons in wider provinces and into national planning.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Quality at entry and supervision were both satisfactory, so the overall rating is
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

GoC's performance was satisfactory. GoC is fully committed to ensuring improved
health through water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion services, particularly to
the poorer regions in western China. The government appointed well-qualified teams to
manage the project at all levels and has been making efforts to improve the policies
supporting the provision and management of infrastructure services in western
regions. The main area where the government could have performed better was ensuring
sufficient counterpart funding was available. More timely provision of funds is likely to
have resulted in (a) less changes in participating counties; and (b) improved
implementation and bringing project benefits to beneficiaries in a faster manner.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                             16

Implementing
Agency                                             Performance


NPO               The enthusiasm and dedication of the team members at all levels were
                  critical throughout implementation. The NPO was staffed with experts
                  who had been involved in the sector and Bank projects for many years.
                  These experts were important for maintaining institutional knowledge.
                  However, the project reporting, including progress reporting and
                  auditing, was consistently late. This was in part due to the difficulties in
                  managing a multi-province project but also due to multiple layers of
                  reporting which slowed the submission of reports to the Bank. Towards
                  the end of the project, as the availability of loan funds diminished, the
                  NPO was less able to exert influence over the participating provinces in
                  order provide timely reports and updates.

PPMOs             The PPMOs, worked effectively and supported implementation in a
                  number of counties. The PPMOs were responsible for the appraisal and
                  approval of water supply designs, a critical task with implications for the
                  sustainability of the constructed system. The PPMOs took this task
                  seriously and towards the end of the project, clear improvements could
                  be seen in the water scheme designs. Greater support and oversight by
                  the PPMOs could, however, have strengthened and improved the
                  accuracy of the projected beneficiary consumption levels used in the
                  design of schemes and further assistance could have been provided to
                  improve the management of water plants, in terms of financial
                  management and accounting practices.

CPMOs             The CPMOs levels were also adequately staffed, despite the difficulties
                  some of the poorer counties faced. The CPMOs coordinated a number of
                  agencies responsible for providing water supply, sanitation and hygiene
                  services and managed this task well. With so many county project
                  offices it is difficult to generalize about performance. However, where
                  the county magistrate had taken a keen interest in the project, this often
                  resulted in a better-staffed and better-run office. The ability of county
                  and township levels to ensure the participation of households in the
                  planning and construction of facilities is extremely limited by a lack of
                  staffing, capacity, resources and time for fieldwork.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

For the reasons stated above, the overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons Learned are divided into two categories: those which apply to all four of the
projects financed by the Bank in China's rural water supply and sanitation sector (i.e.


                                                17

overarching issues and lessons); and those which are derived specifically from the RWSS
4 Project.

A. Overarching issues and lessons:

   1. The design of water supply plants needs to be developed based on a combination
       of cost-effective technical specifications, appropriate and well-defined design
       standards and accurate forecasting of future demand for water
       consumption. High-cost technical specifications and inaccurate forecasting of
       future water demand can jeopardize the sustainability of the facilities constructed.
   2. Positive hygiene behavior change is a long-term process that requires targeted,
       effective and sustained hygiene promotion messages which are delivered in
       innovative ways through a range of communication channels. The methods and
       techniques for hygiene promotion have developed over time and capacity has
       increased. However, significantly more budget and a range of communication
       methods are required to sustain behavior change and to increase demand for safe
       water and improved sanitation facilities.
   3. In order to maximize the benefits of the projects, it is important that sufficient
       attention be given to sanitation and hygiene promotion and these should be well
       integrated and coordinated with water supply investments and activities. The
       development outcome of the project could have been enhanced by considering
       how to integrate and coordinate these activities in the preparation, planning,
       implementation and post-construction stages of the project and setting this out in a
       workable way to be followed by the project implementers.
   4. Ensuring community participation in the design, planning, implementation and
       post-construction management of the project is challenging if insufficient
       project budget is allocated at the project design stage for these activities and
       there are insufficient capacity and mechanisms to support such
       participation. Every effort was made to involve communities in the project, and
       given the limited funding allocated to community mobilization activities, the
       project staff did well. In recent years, GoC has placed greater emphasis on
       people-centered development and future programs will need to consider the costs
       and activities needed to better support participatory and people-centered
       approaches.
   5. The principle of user financing has worked effectively in China and is an
       example for global dissemination. However, in some of the poorest villages
       specific guidelines for reaching the very poorest, including subsidies and lower
       service levels should be considered. While the water supply schemes have been
       for the most part financed by beneficiaries, it is clear that there are still significant
       barriers preventing households within project areas from connecting to the
       project-supplied water. The provision of subsidies or the option of paying
       connection fees in installments were available in some cases and were decided at
       the village level. However, specific procedures and rules need to be adopted on a
       project-wide basis to ensure maximized coverage.
   6. Clarity on the issues of water supply plant ownership and ways to expedite the
       hand-over process for completed plants would strengthen post-construction



                                            18

      management arrangements, leading to greater sustainability and better service.
      The handing-over of water plants is often delayed by complex reporting
      requirements and a lack of clarity over final ownership of the plant.
   7. Given the Bank has 20 years of experience in the sector in China, it is timely to
      review the experience to date, play a greater role in coordinating with wider
      international agencies working in the sector and to provide stronger support to
      central government in finding ways to scale up these basic services. Not only
      has there been sufficient experience in the sector to justify a review of the current
      policies for rural water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion but also the CPS
      is moving towards supporting more basic service delivery programs in rural areas
      and western regions.

B. Lessons from RWSS 4:

   1. In order to substantially increase the coverage of sanitary latrines, households
      need to be offered a choice of affordable sanitation options as well as adequate
      information in order to make an informed decision. The project provided
      technical assistance to those who could afford to build latrines themselves and
      very limited financial assistance to a few households in order to develop a few
      demonstration latrines within villages. However, as there is very little local
      knowledge, capacity or locally available materials, there are still barriers to
      households building latrines themselves.
   2. Better coordination amongst the many line departments with responsibilities for
      the sector would help to improve the efficiency of the project and the skills
      available for implementation. Where there was a good working relationship
      among different departments, implementation improved in terms of either
      efficiency or the ability to mobilize wider funds for further activities within the
      project areas.
   3. The main lesson from the PPIAF PSP Pilot are that new management models
      need to be developed to increase plant sustainability and deliver improved
      services, especially with participation from local operators. The PPIAF pilot
      showed that there is demand from private operators but that regulation is
      important as well as the need to have transparency in the bidding, awarding and
      contracting processes.
   4. The potential impact of natural disasters, such as typhoons and droughts, needs
      to be considered when assessing the availability of water resources and
      emergency preparedness. Some provinces were affected by typhoons and
      droughts, which had implications on the availability of water resources in some
      water supply plants. Future project planning should take into account the
      potential for natural disasters affecting both the availability of water resources but
      also any requirements for emergency preparedness planning.
   5. Consideration needs to be given to the increased wastewater produced by
      increased water consumption, particularly in densely populated areas. The
      additional water supplied by the project, particularly in densely populated areas,
      and where small enterprises may develop as a result of the new water supply,
      needs to be taken into account when designing the schemes and appropriate
      solutions developed.


                                             19

    6. Any covenant which is set to ensure the sustainability for the water supply
       schemes, should be developed taking into account the actual requirements for
       rural water supply schemes and the affordability of beneficiaries. The covenant
       developed to monitor the sustainability of water supply schemes is the same as the
       one used for urban water supply schemes and is not appropriate for rural water
       supply. Rural water supply schemes should be designed to cover operation and
       maintenance costs and where possible (in large multi-village schemes) a very
       small proportion of debt servicing and some depreciation costs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                           20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


         Components             Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                    (USD M)              (USD M)              Appraisal
WATER SUPPLY                                 74.2                   74.2             100%
SANITATION AND HEALTH
EDUCATION                                     7.3                    7.3             100%

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                            4.9                    4.0              82%
SARS TRAINING AND TA                          0.0                     0.9
          Total Baseline Cost                86.4                   86.4             100%
Physical Contingencies                        0.0
Price Contingencies                           5.4
           Total Project Costs               91.8
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)                                         0.0                    0.0              0.0

Front-end fee IBRD                            0.2                    0.0              0.0
   Total Financing Required                  92.0                   86.4             93%

(b) Financing

                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest
    Source of Funds         Type of                                         Percentage of
                           Cofinancing Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD
                                              M)              M)              Appraisal

 International Bank for
   Reconstruction and                        16.0             14.5               91%
      Development
      International
Development Association                      30.0             30.0              100%
          (IDA)
    Government and
      Beneficiaries                          46.0             41.0               89%

          Total                              92.0             85.51              93%




1 The difference between the total project financing and the total project costs is
US$0.9million allocated to the SARS Training and TA



                                            21

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(a) Water Supply. The original target for piped water supply systems, at appraisal was a
total of 479 water facilities, of which 454 were planned to provide direct household
connections. According to appraisal estimates, a total of 120 household rainwater
collectors and 173 deep-well hand pumps would be constructed to serve communities
where the population is dispersed and/or ground and surface water are scarce. A revised
target of 288 piped water supply schemes was set at the beginning of the project. In total,
303 piped water supply systems were constructed, exceeding the revised target by fifteen
schemes. No non-piped water systems were constructed.

(b) Sanitation and Health Education.
Households and School Latrines. The target for the construction of household latrines
was exceeded, with 17,401 latrines built in comparison to the target of 10,500 estimated
at the time of appraisal. The project provided technical assistance for villagers willing
and able to construct latrines at their own expense and where villagers were able to
contribute at least half the cost of an improved latrine in labor and materials, but not the
full capital cost, the project would make a limited amount of funding available to each
village to assist in purchasing inputs for not more than three households. School
sanitation facilities were built with full subsidies. The project aimed to finance three to
five village school composting latrines per county. The total number built by the end of
the project was 151, compared to the 132 number targeted at appraisal.

Health Education. The majority of materials developed for health education purposes
were prepared by NPO. The NPO not only has particular expertise and experience in
health education but was also able to bring in lessons from other provinces in China. The
Provincial and County PMOs were responsible for implementing a very logical and
phased program of health education in the project areas that corresponded with the timing
of the physical investments. This was carried out through the lifetime of the project in
the following phases: i) raising awareness of the project, ii) raising awareness of
environmental and sanitation promotion, iii) safe water utilization, and iv) improving
hygiene behavior.

(c) Project Management. The project management component supported the
establishment and operation of the project offices, which were critical to implementing
the project. For the first time, the project included a technical assistance program to
support project personnel and water plant managers. An important aspect of the
component was the baseline and follow up survey, which provided essential information
for analyzing the project outcomes. The role of the project office in managing and
supervising project implementation, particularly the support provided by the NPO and
PPMO to county and township staff was key to the successful implementation of the
project. Based on the project reporting, training of PMO staff in project management,
procurement, operational management, and sanitation and health education far exceeded
targeted levels. The overall number of courses far exceeded the targeted level suggesting
a healthy regard for training needs.



                                              22

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Project Benefits

(i) Health-related Benefits. Improved health is the benefit most commonly used to
justify drinking water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion projects. However, to
quantify it through health records or epidemiological studies would be time consuming,
costly and would not necessarily provide accurate information. The main health benefit
of water supply, sanitation and hygiene interventions is a reduction in diarrhea, although
impacts on other diseases are substantial. While information on the incidence of diarrhea
was not collected, households were asked whether they perceived the incidence of
diarrhea to have changed since the project started. Throughout the four provinces
between 88% to 95% of household surveyed said they perceived a decrease in the
incidence of diarrhea cases since the project started. None felt that the incidence of
diarrhea had increased. While the rigor of the survey would not hold up against academic
tests, it does suggest that households perceive that diarrhea rates have decreased through
the project intervention.

(ii) Time-savings. The baseline and follow-up surveys have showed that households who
use the improved water supply facilities have saved significant amounts of time from
fetching water, time that can be used for other activities, including more productive
activities. This will have had a particularly positive impact on women, who have the
main responsibility for collecting water. The average time spent collecting water was
lowest in Anhui Province during the rainy season and highest in Hainan Province during
the dry season. The saving is not quantifiable because applying a precise monetary value
on the time of poor rural individuals is difficult.

However, taking the minimum daily wage rate in rural areas as 20 Yuan and assume a 10
hour work day, the hourly rate would be about 2 Yuan or US$0.25. Assuming this
valuation of an hour of time, and that water bestows a minimum average saving of 27
minutes per day (in the rainy season in Anhui), this yields a conservative estimate of the
value of time saved at US$41 per year or 328 Yuan per year. Using the same valuation
for the average time taken per day in the dry season in Hainan Province, the value of time
saving benefit would be US$219 per year or 1750 Yuan per year. During the follow-up
survey, the per capita annual income of project villages across the four provinces was
Y2089. Therefore, the average percentage of annual income saved by households was
between 16 to 84%.

Therefore, the costs resulting from time saving are significant compared to the annual
per capita income of many households. The economic value of time saving alone is
sufficient to justify investment costs in piped water supply systems. Also, health benefits
can be maximized where existing sources are furthest away and water consumption is
lowest, and people are most likely to seek the need for improved, more conveniently
located water. Those who benefit most in terms of convenience ­ that is, where the time




                                              23

savings are the greatest ­ are the most likely to switch to the improved water supplies,
with potential benefits.

It is also possible that reductions in water-related or water-borne diseases in the project
areas due to the improved water supply, sanitation and improved hygiene practices have
resulted in more productive time or non-sick days for households. It might also be
expected that due to a reduction in disease incidence, there would be a corresponding
reduction in medical expenses.

B. Wider Benefits

Social Benefits. Improved water supply is known to include wider social benefits, such
as reducing tension in the community, women's empowerment, women's hygiene, family
quality time, improved school attendance (especially for girls), teachers accepting rural
posts etc. These relate more to quality of life and a wider definition of health and well-
being that go beyond just the absence of disease. While difficult to assign a monetary
value for these aspects, they clearly benefit poor households, in particular women.

Efficiency gains in public administration and public spending. Project management
tools developed under the project can be introduced in large-scale national programs. In
addition, training materials and hygiene promotion materials developed for the project
will also be available for use under future programs. Quantification of such benefits is
beyond the scope of the ICR. The public sector alone is unlikely to be able to be the
main provider of access to water and sanitation. A recent study by the World Bank in the
sector estimated that China would need to invest US$ 4.1 billion per year to meet the
MDG targets by 2015 and US$5.4 billion annually to meet universal coverage. Actual
expenditure over recent years is estimated to be around 56% of targeted requirements.
The new FYP program released in 2006 for rural drinking water supply has set out a plan
for significantly increasing funds for the sector. The project has piloted PSP management
models which have shown how public-private partnerships can be developed for rural
water supply services.

C. Regional and Global Benefits

Globally, 1 billion people are currently without access to safe water supply and 2.6
billion have no form of improved sanitation services (Joint Monitoring Program figures
for 2002). Most of these people live in Asia and Africa. China has approximately one-
third of the global population without access to water supply and access to
sanitation. Therefore, increasing access in China and demonstrating how to scale up
water supply and sanitation services has important implications for global sector targets.




                                              24

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

       Names                Title                 Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR

George Plant       Urban Specialist      EACCF             TTL (Preparation &
                                                           Appraisal)
Dawn Vermilya      FM Specialist                           Financial Management
Mats Andersson     Sector Coordinator    EASUR             Project Management

Zhentu Liu         Sr Procurement
                   Specialist            EAPCO             Procurement

Xiaofeng Li        Senior Program
                   Assistant             EACCF             Project Administration

Ping Huang         Social Specialist     China Academy of
                                         Social Sciences   Health Education

Shunong Hu         Water Engineer        EASUR             Water Supply and
                                                           Procurement
Eddie Ke-Siong Hum Water Engineer        Consultant        Water Supply
David I            FM Specialist         EAPCO             Financial Management

Osmo Tammela       Engineer              EASUR             Project Management /
                                                           Former TTL

Thomas L. Zearley  Lead Operations                         Project Management /
                   Officer               EASUR             TTL
Zou Youlan         Safeguards Specialist EASES             Land Acquisition

Dong Yi            Disbursement
                   Specialist            EAPCO             Disbursements

Parameswaran Iyer  Sr. Water Supply and                    Rural Water Supply and
                   Sanitation Specialist EWDWS             Sanitation / TTL
Songling Yao       Safeguards Specialist EASES             Safeguards
Mark Wu            Economist             Consultant        Economics

Joanna McLean SmithWater & Environment                     Rural Water Supply and
                   Specialist            Consultant        Sanitation




                                         25

b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                   FY98                                                        7.86
                   FY99                                                      169.48
                   FY00                                                       -0.02
                   FY01                                                        0.00
                   FY02                                                        0.00
                   FY03                                                        0.00
                   FY04                                                        0.00
                   FY05                                                        0.00
                   FY06                                                        0.00
                   FY07                                                        0.00
                                   Total:                                    177.32
Supervision/ICR
                   FY98                                                        0.00
                   FY99                                                        0.00
                   FY00                                    11                 30.30
                   FY01                                    17                 36.27
                   FY02                                    19                 57.28
                   FY03                                    21                 64.40
                   FY04                                    10                 81.74
                   FY05                                    15                 87.69
                   FY06                                     4                 66.16
                   FY07                                     1                 15.04
                                   Total:                  98                438.88




                                       26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Summary Results of Baseline and Follow-up Surveys

Introduction. In accordance with the Loan and Credit Agreements, a follow-up survey of
the project was conducted in 2003 and in 2005 and the results were analyzed against
baseline surveys carried out in 2000, 2001 and 2002. The implementation plan for both the
baseline and follow-up survey were developed by national and provincial experts. These
experts organized training for the persons who would pilot and conduct the survey work.
The survey was conducted in 196 project villages of 27 counties of Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou
and Hainan Provinces. By the end of the project, the number of counties involved
increased by nine, to a total of 36 project counties. However, the survey was conducted
based on the 27 original counties involved in the project. During the follow-up survey, the
sample included 112 villages from the original 196 villages due to slow progress in
construction in some areas.

Contents of the Survey. The survey consisted of three questionnaires: (i) status of project
villages (ii) primary school pupils' health knowledge, and (iii) related behavior of
housewives. In each village, the teams surveyed a random selection of the following target
respondents: housewives aged between 20 to 45 years old (except village leaders, teachers
and doctors); all primary school students in grade 4; headmasters of the primary schools;
and managers of the water plants. The survey covered 112 villages which were supplied
by a total of 93 water supply systems.

Key Findings. The key findings of the survey, as they are relevant to the project
development objectives and key performance indicators are summarized below:

A. WATER SUPPLY

The following information represents the average time taken in each province for one
journey to collect water. It is estimated that households would conduct around two to three
journeys per day for consumption purposes only. These are the results from the baseline
survey carried out before the project supplied water was provided.

Table 1: Time for Rural Residents to Fetch Water
Province            Rainy season             Dry season
                    Single Journey           Single Journey
                    (Minutes)                (Minutes)
Anhui                           9                    11
Fujian                         18                    22
Guizhou                        27                    45
Hainan                         19                    48

The following table shows the tap water coverage in surveyed village during the baseline and
follow-up surveys.



                                             27

Table 2. Overall Tap Water Coverage in Survey Villages
    Province       Survey Time          Total       Households with Coverage Rate         %
                                      Households       Tap Water                       Change
     Anhui           Baseline           31,327            346              1.10          45%
                    Follow-up           24,608           11,346           46.11
     Fujian          Baseline           24,986           1,042             4.17          50%
                    Follow-up           19,806           10,777           54.41
    Guizhou          Baseline           23,934           4,801            20.06          27%
                    Follow-up           11,766           5,511            46.84
     Hainan          Baseline           14,514            628              4.33          66%
                    Follow-up           9,658            6,753            69.92
     Total           Baseline           94,761           6,817             7.19          45%
                    Follow-up           65,838           34,387           52.23

Figure 1:




The survey results show that there are still households within the project villages that have
not connected to the project piped water supply system. The main reasons cited by
households were: a) Construction progress has been slow and they have not yet received
connections; b) Poorer households cannot afford the water tariffs; c) In some areas, the
connection fee is too high (i.e. unaffordable); and d) Some residents did not see the benefit
of paying for piped water supply over their existing sources of supply.

Table 3: Reasons Given for not Using Tap Water%
Province              Slow progress Insufficient Income      Using Existing       Other
                                                                 Sources
       Anhui                44                   34                30                8
      Fujian                37                   45                22                6
     Guizhou                47                   26                21               16
      Hainan                83                   54                47               18
     Average               48%                  38%                23%            12%




                                             28

B. SANITATION

Table 4. Basic and Improved (Sanitary) Latrines in Survey Villages during the Baseline and
Follow Up Survey.
     Province         Stage        Households       Percent with  Households with      Percent of
                                   with Basic      Basic Latrine  Improved Latrine Households with
                                     Latrine                                       Improved Latrine
                                                                                      (Coverage)
      Anhui          Baseline        30,807            98%             2835               9%
                    Follow up        23,633            96%             8315              34%
     Fujian          Baseline        16,176            65%             2993              12%
                    Follow up        18,970            96%             7376              37%
     Guizhou         Baseline        21,520            90%              874               4%
                    Follow up        11,707           99.5%            4142              35%
     Hainan          Baseline         4070             28%             2904              20%
                    Follow up         6917             72%             2511              26%
      Total          Baseline        72,573            77%             9606              10%
                    Follow up        61,227            93%             22344             37%

Table 5: Construction of Household Sanitary Latrines in Survey Villages
     Province          Number of        Median number of      Newly constructed    Percentage of
                      Demonstration       Demonstration                          New (Median
                         Latrines            Latrines
                                            per village
       Anhui               666                   4                 3128                 17%
       Fujian              654                  10                 4133                 21%
      Guizhou              441                  17                 4021                 35%
      Hainan               335                  10                 1645                 20%
       Total               2096                 41                 12927                22%

Figure 2:




                                          29

C. HYGIENE PROMOTION

1. Results through survey questionnaire of housewives (baseline and follow up)
a) Housewives Washing Hands before Preparing Food (see figure below)
     Anhui:    Improved by 10% (from 70 ­ 80%)
     Fujian:   Improved by 48% (from 37% - 85%)
     Guizhou: Improved by 32% (from 50% - 82%)
     Hainan: Improved by 49% (from 44% - 93%)

Figure 3:




b) Housewives not wiping bowls with cloths (see figure below)
       Anhui:    Improved by 15% (from 53 - 68%)
       Fujian:  Improved by 12% (from 72 - 84 %)
       Guizhou: Improved by 6% (from 56 - 62%)
       Hainan: Improved by 18% (from 63 - 81 %)

Figure 4:




                                         30

2. Results through observation of housewives
a) Housewives Not Wiping Bowls with Dirty Cloths (i.e. Keeping Dishware Clean) (see
figure below)
       Anhui:    Improved by 26% (from 71 - 97%)
       Fujian:   Improved by 15% (from 73 - 98 %)
       Guizhou: Improved by 33% (from 60 - 93%)
       Hainan:   Improved by 47% (from 50 - 97 %)

b) Housewives Keeping Water Container Clean (see figure below)
       Anhui:    Improved by 31% (from 67 - 98%)
       Fujian:   Improved by 19% (from 78 - 97%)
       Guizhou: Improved by 32% (from 59 - 91%)
       Hainan:   Improved by 24% (from 74 - 98%)

c) Housewives Washing Hands with Soap (see figure below)
       Anhui:   Improved by 26% (from 64 - 90%)
       Fujian:  Improved by 55% (from 39 - 94%)
       Guizhou: Improved by 17% (from 67 - 84%)
       Hainan: Improved by 31% (from 58 - 89%)

Figure 5:




                                        31

3. Results through survey questionnaire of students (Baseline and Follow up)

Table 6: Percentage Increase in Key Hygiene Knowledge of Students between Baseline and Follow-up
Surveys

                  Should Wash          Having                                                                                 Disease
                 Hands Before      Conditions of    Washing Hands     When to Wash     Washing Hands        Keeping        Transmission
                       Meal        Washing Hands   after Defecation        Hands        before Meal    Dishware Clean
                                    before Meal                                                                                Route

      Province

                Baseline  Follow-          Follow-           Follow-          Follow-          Follow-           Follow-           Follow-
                            up    Baseline   up    Baseline    up    Baseline   up    Baseline   up    Baseline    up    Baseline    up


  Anhui         99.10      99.93  82.81     96.58  51.23     77.68   74.14     91.62  79.48    95.26   37.31     65.20   83.01      94.77



 Fujian         99.23      99.34  81.63     97.22  63.43     86.74   70.04     93.45  74.86    91.08   43.99     84.26   83.44      94.03



 Guizhou        90.56      100    75.20     93.22  40.41     83.58   65.88     86.32  72.80    86.16   67.74     62.84   77.30      96.47



 Hainan         94.39      99.22  81.96     99.94  44.34     94.88   38.50     94.25  52.47    98.45   31.27     89.29   65.58      97.52



Figure 6:




The proportion of schools having health education courses has increased from 60% during
the baseline survey to 91% during the follow-up survey. The proportion of schools having
health education homework or tests has increased from 32% during the baseline survey to
66% during the follow-up survey.




                                                               32

Table 7: Key Hygiene Knowledge of Students during Baseline and Follow-up Surveys (Questionnaire)




Figure 7:




4. Perception of the Incidence of Diarrhea

Changes in perception of the incidence of diarrhea after project implementation are shown
in Table 8. Approximately 88% of the survey households think the incidence rate of
diarrhea decreased markedly after the provision of piped water.

Table 8: Perception of Rural Residents on the Incidence of Diarrhea
Cases after the Supply of Safe Drinking Water (%)
         Province                Increase             Unchanged              Decreased
          Anhui                      0                     5%                  95%
          Fujian                     0                     8%                  92%
         Guizhou                     0                     19%                 82%
         Hainan                      0                     12%                 88%




                                            33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

While it was not possible to carry out a complete stakeholder workshop, given the
number of provinces and project staff involved, the Bank was able to: a) elicit feedback
from the provinces during two ICR missions; b) attend a workshop led by the NPO to
discuss the lessons learned in the previous Bank RWSS Projects, c) review
recommendations developed by the NPO as part of the follow-up survey completed in
early 2006; and d) hold a completion meeting with the NPO to discuss project lessons
and ask for feedback on Bank performance. The results of these activities have been
analyzed and are summarized below:

                   A. Key Lessons Learned during Implementation.

(i) Multi-province Project. In designing multi-province projects, more consideration
should be given to the differences among the provinces, particularly in regard to the
levels of development, economic conditions and capacity. Guizhou Province felt that, as
one of the most under-developed provinces of China, its status should have been
considered in terms of support to the province and when assessing the outcomes of the
project. Guizhou lies in a land-locked mountainous part of South-West China and is
ranked second to bottom of all Chinese provinces in regards to the UN Human
Development Index (HDI). In contrast, Anhui (eastern central China) is ranked 7th from
the bottom and Hainan and Fujian (both in south eastern China) figure in the top half of
the HDI ranking.

(ii) Private Sector Involvement. In all provinces, there is evidence that small-scale
providers are becoming involved in providing drinking water services. However, this is
happening with varying degrees of success and transparency. All provinces recognized
the need to develop this in a step-by-step way and for this to be carefully monitoring and
evaluated. The provinces felt that the PPIAF study arranged by the Bank to pilot private-
sector involvement in the management of some schemes in Hainan and Gansu (RWSS 3),
and the subsequent national workshop in 2005, were extremely useful.

(iii) Coordination of Different Agencies with Sector Responsibilities. Where provinces
or counties were able to encourage the coordination of the many different line
departments responsible for rural water supply, sanitation and health, this greatly
supported the smooth implementation of the project and improved effectiveness. For
example, during the typhoon in Hainan in 2003, the government mobilized a range of
agencies to address rural drinking water problems. This included the Provincial
Development and Reform Commission and the Provincial Poverty Alleviation Office.
Through this, Hainan was able to bring together funding and expertise to expedite project
implementation.

(iv) Changes in Leading Group or Senior Project Leaders. Some provinces suffered
negatively from either a change of Leading Group or a change of provincial leadership
which had negative repercussions on the speed of implementation and the ability to



                                            34

mobilize counterpart funding. While it is not possible to control this type of issue, it is
important that steps be taken to ensure a smooth transition and to maintain project
momentum. In addition, the NPO changed leadership three times and their host
organization during the project lifetime. The Bank Task Manager also changed a number
of times.

(vi) Ownership of Water Plants. A number of issues were raised in relation to the
handing-over of water plants. Firstly, as there was no clear policy for the hand-over of
water plants, the decision on ownership of the plants was not always linked to the parties
that invested in the water plants and the process for handing over the water plants was
slow.

(vii) Capacity of Water Plant Managers. While training programs were conducted for
water plant managers, it was felt that in general, the capacity of water plant managers was
limited, particularly in the areas of book keeping and operations & maintenance. The
provinces felt that regular training for plant staff on the management of water plants, as
well as retention of trained staff had a positive impact on the sustainability of the water
plants.

(viii) Collection and Management of Water Fees. Some water plants had problems
ensuring the collection of water fees and in managing these in an effective way. It was
felt that future Bank-financed projects should include support for improving the
efficiency of fee collection and management, such as computerized billing systems and
collection systems.

(ix) Changing Poor Hygiene Behaviors. Changing ingrained behaviors is difficult and
requires sustained efforts and funding. However, the limited funding available for
hygiene promotion made it difficult to have an impact on hygiene behaviors. Hygiene
promotion needs to use innovative methods and be carried out over a sustained period in
order to have an impact.

B. Key Lessons Learned during the Previous World Bank-supported RWSS Projects.

(i) The Bank has Brought Added Value. The Bank was recognized as adding value to
the sector in China, particularly through individual task managers.

(ii) Review Experience and Increase Policy Dialogue. It is suggested that the Bank
review experience and prepare a policy paper on RWSS in China. The Bank has financed
four similar lending projects since 1985 but has never carried out an analysis/post-
evaluation of them and ICRs are often done too early to show socio-economic impacts.
The Bank should issue an in-depth policy paper on issues and suggestions for the
sustainable development of RWSS in China based on the evaluation of the four Bank-
financed projects.

(iii) Integration of Bank Programs with Domestic and International Programs. To
enhance sustainability and increase impacts, the Bank should consider integrating its



                                              35

projects more with local programs for RWSS. The people trained under the Bank project
are also not always used in subsequent work. There are a number of international
organizations including the Bank, UNICEF, UNDP and DFID who have much
international experience but still require coordination to translate these experiences
within the Chinese context. The Bank should take the lead in this regard and develop an
integrated and multi-donor approach to work with China.

(iv) Assistance from International Organizations. Based on the latest survey conducted
by MOH, there are more than 300 million farmers who still have limited access to safe
water, less than 30% of rural households have improved latrines, and awareness of
hygienic behavior remains low. The Bank, as a knowledge institution, should make the
best use of the opportunity provided by the Eleventh FYP, which calls for `Building a
New Countryside Construction Program (i.e. Rural Development Strategy), and take a
lead in the sector. The Bank has a role to advise on key sector issues such as least cost
technologies, community participation and hygiene promotion.

                C. Good Practice Examples from the RWSS 4 Project.

Good Practice                      Example
Accessing Additional Poverty       Hainan Province was able to access additional funds,
Alleviation Funding for            from outside the project, to facilitate the increase in
Latrine Improvements in            latrine coverage within some participating villages.
Project Villages                   As the project had limited funding for sanitation, this
                                   was a particularly useful additional resource.

Encouraging the Involvement        Guizhou Province enlisted volunteer medical
of Medical Students in             students to support hygiene promotion and health
Hygiene Promotion and              education activities in rural areas. The students spent
Health Education                   time in project villages providing lessons and advise
                                   to the project.

Piloting of Private Sector         Hainan Province, with the support of Bank
Participation (PSP) Models         consultants hired under a PPIAF grant, piloted new
                                   PSP management models in two counties and shared
                                   their experiences in a national workshop in 2005
                                   attended by representatives from nearly all Chinese
                                   Provinces.

Computerized Billing Systems       Some counties have invested in computerized billing
                                   systems in some of the larger water plants. For
                                   example, Qianshan County in Anhui Province.

Using a Performance                Anhui Provincial PMO set up a performance
Incentive System                   incentive system in order to reward top performing
                                   counties in terms of achieving the project targets.
                                   This type of practice helped to improve efficiency.



                                             36

Setting Aside Funds for Debt Wuwei County in Anhui Province set aside 1% of
Servicing                    gross revenues and 5% of net profits from water
                             plants for debt servicing.

Monitoring Private Sector    Fujian and Anhui Provinces have been monitoring
Investment etc               wider private sector investment in water plants in the
                             provinces to gain experience for future investments.
                             Private sector financing has been used outside the
                             project in both these provinces, while being
                             innovative, still raises issues around accountability
                             and transparency as well as proper legal and
                             regulatory frameworks.

Designing Water Plants that  Later water plants built in Hainan Province were
Match Levels of Consumption well-built and commensurate with actual water
and Demand                   consumption and projected demands.

Hiring Construction          Guizhou Province hired an independent construction
Supervision Company          supervision company to ensure quality of
                             construction.

Developing a Strong          Anhui Province developed a strong relationship with
Relationship with Other      the Provincial Finance Department in order to speed
Departments                  up the rate of disbursements.
Making a Concerted Effort to Hainan Province made a concerted effort to extend
Extend Networks              network coverage in order to meet the design
                             capacity. This is reflected in the findings of the
                             follow up survey.

Innovative VCDs on Hygiene   The NPO and a number of provinces prepared VCDs
Promotion                    for hygiene promotion, which if well made, are a
                             cost-effective way to deliver hygiene messages.




                                        37

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                    Comments from the NPO on the RWSS 4 Project

The RWSS 4 project was appropriately identified as a key area for support by the World
Bank while at the same time meeting the demands of the government and people of
China. The overall design and planning of the project was reasonable and the
organizational arrangements and management at all levels (Bank, NPO, PPMO and
CPMO) was effective. The project objectives have basically been achieved, including
water supply, sanitation and health education, and capacity building components. The
project has surpassed most of the objectives set out and has resulted in positive benefits
to participating communities, increased capacity of government staff and has resulted in a
satisfactory project. The NPO provided detailed comments for developing the ICR and
on a draft final version of the ICR and these comments have been taken into account in
the final ICR Report.

The following is a summary of the key project achievements, positive lessons learned and
suggestions for future projects from the perspective of the NPO.

                                   A.     Achievements

RWSS 4 has:
    a) Helped to develop rural water supply and sanitation services in rural areas,
        particularly poor rural areas;
    b) Introduced advanced/scientific management methods and procedures and fostered
        the technical and management capacity of staff at local levels;
    c) Promoted the development of basic theories and techniques for implementing
        rural water supply and sanitation projects;
    d) Set a good example for the construction and management of rural water supply
        nationally;
    e) Set a good foundation for the implementation of the counties' safe drinking water
        programs and sanitation programs, including technical procedures and
        specifications;
    f) Pioneered the three-in-one approach (water supply, sanitation and hygiene
        promotion) in China and explored the mutual benefits of this approach;
    g) Shown its impact on poverty reduction, provided socio-economic and health
        benefits and has had a positive impact on the quality of life of rural residents;
    h) Contributed to the development of rural water supply and sanitation globally, in
        particular has helped contribute to progress in achieving the MDG targets in
        China and Internationally; and
    i) Demonstrated technical innovations in rural water supply which can serve as a
        lesson to other countries.




                                             38

                             B.       Positive Lessons

The RWSS 4 project has developed the following positive lessons:

  a)   Good cooperation between departments contributed to successful project
       implementation. The project enhanced the developed of interdepartmental
       cooperation and overall arrangements for project management, including
       cooperation at national, provincial and county levels as well as between the
       GoC and the Bank.
  b)   Established standardized procedures and methods for the management of rural
       water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion project implementation.
  c)   Scientific and standardized management systems have been developed.
       Implementation was enhanced by fully staffed agencies with procedures and
       rules set by both the GoC and guidelines and rules set by the Bank.
  d)   The success of the project depended on the participation of local government
       and local populations. The project was in line with the development needs of
       project regions and the demands of rural people.
  e)   Local implementation of the rural water supply schemes, including design,
       O&M and unit costs has been advantageous. The unit cost for the project was
       half that of national projects (i.e. 200 Yuan instead of 400 Yuan). The
       market-orientated aspects of the project helped to keep costs down.
  f)   Attention to both construction and management has helped ensure sustainable
       development. The emphasis that the Bank gave to post-construction
       management was greater than for national projects and has had a positive
       impact on sustainability.
  g)   The focus on skills development, quality and management aspects has had a
       great impact on the sustainability of investments.
  h)   While some of the water supply schemes do not yet have a high standard of
       financial record keeping, it is clear that there is a strong basis for the
       sustainable management of the schemes in the long-term.

                     C.      Suggestions for Future Projects

  a)   Identification / Design Stage: The domestic counterpart funding ratio should
       be reduced, especially in poor rural areas.
  b)   Appropriate Procurement: The NPO recommends the use of National instead
       of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for the lump sum contracting
       model. The detailed implementation of procurement is better left to the
       provincial agencies who often have difficulties with the ICB procurement.
  c)   Integration with Overall Master Plans: Projects should be developed in
       accordance with the local and regional master plans, including the FYPs and
       the Rural Safe Drinking Water Plans.
  d)   More Flexible Bank Requirements: Some Bank requirements are too rigid to
       ensure that projects are integrated with national plans, such as the rule that no
       more than 25% of beneficiaries can be township residents, the majority must




                                          39

    be rural residents. This is not in line with future domestic plans for
    developing suitably scaled water supply works.
e)  Well-designed Monitoring Indicators: The design of indicators requires more
    thought to ensure that they are suitable.
f)  Tariff Covenant: The requirement that after two years of operation, the water
    supply schemes should cover O&M plus debt service is not in line with the
    development of rural water supply.
g)  Stable Management Staff: Keeping the management staff stable (both GoC
    and Bank) is important to the project.
h)  Careful Selection of Project Regions: Selection should take into account the
    different economic development of regions and be in line with development of
    water supply in rural areas. International financing institutions should
    consider working in central and northern parts of China where the economic
    situation is better.




                                      40

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

The following is a list of key documents relating to RWSS4:

  1. The World Bank: Project Appraisal Document: Fourth Rural Water Supply and
       Sanitation Project dated May 10, 1999, Report No. 19226-CHA.
  2. The World Bank: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project - Loan
       Agreement between China and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
       Development,
  3. The World Bank: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project ­ Development
       Credit Agreement, September 17, 1999. Credit Number 3323 CHA.
  4. National Project Office: Bi-annual Progress Reports.
  5. The World Bank: Preparation, supervision and completion mission Aide Memoires,
       Back-to-office reports and ISRs from 1999 to 2006.




                                           41

Annex 9. Pictorial Evidence of the Project Activities and Achievements

A.       PROJECT ACTIVITIES IN PICTURES

(i) Project Management, Training and Capacity Building




  Pictures above: Training courses for project staff, including both classroom based and on-site
  training.

(ii) Supervision




    Pictures above: A World Bank supervision mission reviewing: the book keeping of a functioning
    water plant in Hainan Province (on the left) and inspecting a newly constructed water plant during
    a site visit in Guizhou Province (on the right).




                                                42

(iii)  Sanitation




                              Picture above: Construction of Composting Latrine




(iv)   Hygiene Promotion




 Picture: China has a long history of Hygiene     Picture: More modern techniques, such as role
 Promotion ­ see old poster above which says,     play and video, have been developed to promote
 `Practice Hygiene to protect against disease'.   hygiene messages, along with traditional
                                                  approaches.




                                               43

B.     PICTORAL EVIDENCE OF THE PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS - BEFORE
  AND AFTER PICTURES

(i)    Water Supply
   Before                                              After




   Pictures above: A young student washing his hands with soap using the new water supply
   (on the right) situated beside the old water supply source (on the left).

                                                         After

 Before




Pictures above: The leader of the village All China Women's Federation showing the original
water source; a 30 minute round trip from the village. On the right, a farmer using her newly built
piped water supply source conveniently located in her yard.


                                                44

(ii)    Sanitation

 Before                                                        After




Pictures above: On the left an old latrine situated in unhygienic conditions and close to a water
source, posing a risk to health. On the right, a demonstration latrine built in hygienic conditions and
away from any water sources.

     Before                                              After




    Pictures above: On the left is an original latrine which consists of wooden slabs and where the
    waste is collected in an unlined pit and used for night soil. On the right, is a picture of a
    demonstration latrine built under the project where the waste is collected in a septic tank
    and composted.




                                                 45

 Before                                               After




Pictures above: The picture on the left shows a village where the pigs and chickens roam freely
creating an unhealthy village environment. The picture on the right shows how the building of a pig
pen and biogas latrine can contribute to an improvement in living conditions.




 Before                                              After




Picture: An additional benefit of the biogas latrine is the use of gas for cooking (on the right).
On the left is an original outdoor cooking stove which uses straw and wood to fire (which needs to
be collected by the households).




                                                46

(iii)   Hygiene Promotion

                                                         Good Hygiene Behaviors

 Risky Behaviors




Pictures above: On the left, a farmer spreading night soil on her fields. On the right, a household
washing vegetables with piped water in their home.




   Pictures above: Students having a hygiene education class and healthy young children playing with
   safe water.




                                              47

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 30180R

ANHUI PROVINCE                                                      SHANDONG                                                                                              FUJIAN PROVINCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Z H E J I A N G
0      50        100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHINA
                           DANGSHAN                                                                                                                                                0     50       100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PUCHENG
    KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS
                                            XIAO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WUYISHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHI            SONGXI
                                            HUAIBEI
                                                SHI                                                                                                                            J I A N G X I                                                                                                                     AND SANITATION PROJECT
                                                                      SU                                                                                                                                    GUANGZE                                              SHOUNING          FUDING
                                           SUIXI                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZHENGHE
                      BOZHOU                                              LINGBI                                                                                                                                           JIANYANG                                           ZHERONG
H E N A N                                   SUZHOU
                           GUOYANG              SHI                                         SI                                                                                                                SHAOWU                                          ZHOUNING
                                                                                                                                              J I A N G S U                                                       SHI                                                     FU'AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XIAPU
                    TAIHE                                                                                                                                                                                                            JIAN'OU                               SHI

                                MENGCHENG                             GUZHEN                                                                                                                                                                            PINGNAN    NINGDE
               JIESHOU      LIXIN                                                 WUHE                                                                                                                                 SHUNCHANG                                                                                                        PROJECT COUNTIES
                  FUYANG                      HUAIYUAN                                                                                                                                         JIAN-
        LINQUAN XIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GUTIAN
                        FUYANG                                          BENGBU                                                                                                                 NING    TIANING JIANGLE                                              LUOYUAN
                           SHI                                                                                                                                                                                                   NANPING
                                      FENGTAI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJET COUNTIES ADDED
                                                                          FENGYANG                                                                                                                                                  SHI
                                                                                              JIASHAN                                                                                                                                                    Min            LIAN-                                                           DURING IMPLEMENTATION
                 FUNAN   YINGSHANG            HUAINAN                                                                      TIANCHANG                                                                                      SHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MINGXI                                            MINHOU    JIANG
                                                                            DINGYUAN                              LAI'AN                                                                     NING-                                             MINQING             FUZHOU
                                                CHANGFENG                                     CHUZHOU                                                                                         HUA                 SANMING          YOUXI                             SHI                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                         SHI                                                                                       QINGLIU           SHI
                           HUOQIU          SHOU
                                                                           FEIDONGQUANJIAO                                                                                                                  YONG'AN                                                       CHANGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        YONGTAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHI                                                                                                                    COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
                                     LU'AN                                                     HANSHAN                                                                                                                  DATIAN                                     FUQING
                                      XIAN                          HEFEI                                                                                                                                                         DEHUA                              SHI
                                         LU'AN    FEIXI                                                          HE      MA'ANSHAN                                                    CHANGTING                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                           SHI                                CHAOHU                                                                                                            LIANCHENG          ZHANG-                 XIANYOU              PUTIAN SHI        PINGTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PING      YONGCHUN                       PUTIAN
                    JINZHAI                                                                              WUHUDANGTU                                                                                                  SHI                        QUANZHOU      XIAN                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                          HUOSHANSHUCHENGLUJIANG                                          WUWEI               SHI   WUHU                                       Tai Hu                                 LONGYAN                               SHI

                                                                                           FANCHANG                      XIAN                                                                             SHI                ANXI
                                                                                                                                            LANGXI                                   WUPING                                                              HUI'AN

                                                                             TONGLING                    NANLING                                                                           SHANG-                                   NAN'AN

                             YUEXI         TONGCHENG                                 SHI    TONGLING                XUANGZHOU                   GUANGDE                                      HANG                   HUA'AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JINJIANG
       H U B E I                                                   ZONGYANG                   XIAN                                                                                                                             TONG'AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   YONG-
                                QIANSHAN                                                                                                                                                                                CHANGTAI
        Cha                                                                                                                                                                                         DING                                                SHISHI
                                                   ANQING                                 QING-                   JING                                                                                        NANJING           XIAMEN                                        S o u t h
                                         HUAINING                                         YANG                                   NINGGUO                                                                                                                 SHI
           ng             TAIHU                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHI
                                                                      MENGCHENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LONGHAI
                                        WANG-                                               HUANG- JINGDE                                                                                                     PINGHE                   ZHANGZHOU SHI                         C h i n a
               Jiang                     JIANG                              SHITAI            SHAN                         JIXI
                            SUSONG               DONGZHI                                    YI                                                                                                                          ZHANGPU

                                                                            QIMEN                                    SHE                        Z H E J I A N G                                                                                                                S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YUNXIAO

                                                                                           XIUNING                                                                          G U A N G D O N G              ZHAO'AN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                        H U N A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                acceptance of such boundaries.

GUIZHOU PROVINCE                                                                                                                                                                           HAINAN PROVINCE
                                                                                             C H O N G Q I N G
                                                                              Jiang                                                                                                                                                                      GUANGDONG
        0         50       100                                      Chang                                                                                                                       0                  50            100

             KILOMETERS                                                                                                     DAOZHEN                                                                          KILOMETERS
S I C H U A N                                                                                                               GELAO-
                                                                                                                            MIAOZU
                                                                                                                                  WUCHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M O N G O L I A                          L              J I L I N
                                                                                                                 ZHENG'AN                  GELAO-    YANHE
                                                                                                                                                   TUJIAZU
                                                  CHISHUI                                                                         MAIOZU                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                      SHI                                                                                                                                     G u l f o f                                                                                                                                            G
                                                                            XISHUI                    TONGZI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                   FENGGANG   DEJIANG                                                                                                            HAI KOU                                                                        O                 LIAONING
                                                                                                         SUIYANG                                             SONGTAO-
                                                                                                                                                                                               T o n k i n
                                                                                                                                                     YINGJIANGMIAOZU     H U N A N                                                                                  SHI                                                                       M                              DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                       TUJIA-                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                      MIAOZU                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N E
                                                                                                                                                SINAN                                                                                                                               WENCHANG                                                   BEIJING    Beijing
                                                                                                                                AN                       JIANGKOU                                                                       LINGAO                       QIONGSHAN
                                                                                                      ZUNYI                                                      TONGREN SHI
                                                                             RENHUAI                                                         Wu                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIANJIN
                                                                                                        SHI                  MEIT                                    WANSHAN TEQU                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP. OF
                                                                                           ZUNYI XIAN                                         SHIQIAN                                                                                                     CHENGMAI                                                                                HEBEI
                                          BIJIE                                                                                                        CENGONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KOREA
                                                                          JINSHA            Yachi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHANXI
                                                                                                                             YUQING                            YUPING DONGZU                                                 D A N                                                                                                                     SHANDONG         Yellow
                                              DAFANG                                                                                               ZHENYUAN
                                                                                    XIFENG                          WENG'AN                  SHIBING                                                                                                                 DING'AN                           QINGHAI                NINGXIA                                    Sea
                     HEZHANG                                          QIANXI                  KAIYANG
          WEINING                                                                                                                 HUANG-                  SANSUITIANZHU                                                                                                                                                GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JIANGSU
           YI-HUI-                                                               XIUWEN                                                    PING                                                                 CHANG-                                                                                                                         HENAN
           MIAOZU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TUNCHANG                                                                   SHAANXI
                                     NAYONG                                                                              FUQUAN                      TAI-JIANHE                                                  JIANG

                           ZHONG-                 ZHIJIN                 QINGZHEN                                                            KAILI JIANG        JINPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BAISHA                                                                                                                      ANHUI
                            SHAN                                                    GUIYANG                                                  SHI                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     QIONGHAI
                              QU                                                           SHI                             MAJIANG                                                                                                                      QIONG-
                          SHUICHENG                                       PINGBA                                                               LEISHAN                                                                                                                                                                                         HUBEI
                                              PUDING                                                        LONGLI  GUIDING                                                                                                                             ZHONG                                                    SICHUAN                                                          E a s t
                                        LIUZHI                                                                                             DANZHAI              LIPING                                                                         LI-MIAOZU                                                                                                           ZHEJIANG
                                                       ANSHUN                                                            DUYUN                                                                           DONGFANG
                                        TEQU                                                                                                          RONG-
                                                           ZHENNING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                       JIANG                                                                                                                                     XIZANG                    CHONGQING                  JIANGXI
                                                                                          HUISHUI
                                         GUANLING                                                                                            SANDU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S e a
Y U N N A N           PANXIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WANGNING
                        TEQU         QING- BUYI-                        ZIYUN                               PING-                            SHUIZU        CONG-                                                                                                                                                                             HUNAN
                                     LONGMIAOZU                                                                                                                                                                                   TONGSHI
                                                                         BUYI-   CHANGSHUN                  TANG           DUSHAN                          JIANG                                                                    SHI
                                               ZHENFENG B-M MIAOZU                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S o u t h                                GUIZHOU             Area           FUJIAN
                                PU'AN                                                                                                                                                                               LEDONG
                                                                   Beipan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of map
                                XINGREN                                                   LUODIAN                                            LIBO                                                                                     BAOTING            LINGSHUI                                                                                                        TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LI-MIAOZU                                     C h i n a                   YUNNAN
                                       ANLONG                            WANGMO                                                                                                                                               SANYA                                                                                                              GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GUANGXI
                            XINGYI                                                                                                                                                                                             SHI
                              SHI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S e a                                                              HONG KONG
                                                 CEHENG
                                                                                                                                                G U A N G X I                                                                                                                                                                                          MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ANMAR            VIETNAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MY      LAO                                  South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THAILAND            DEM.                  HAINAN      China Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REP.                                                   PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOVEMBER 2006

