Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19226
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$16 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR22.2 MILLION (USD$ 30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
May 10, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1998)
Currency Unit = Renminbi
$1.00 = Y8.3
Y1.0   $0.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASUTRES
m = Meter (= 3.28 feet)
km  =  Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
I = Liter (=0.264 US gallons)
lcd = Liters per capita per day
m  =  Cubic meter or ton of water (284 US gallons)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWP         - Annual Work Plan
CAS         - Country Assistance Strategy
CNCCCITC - China National Chemical Construction Company International Tendering
Company
CPO         - County Project Office
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return
FRR         - Financial Rate of Return
ICB         - International Competitive Bidding
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
NCB         - National Competitive Bidding
NPO         - National Project Office
NPHCC       - National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
NPV         - Net Present Value
NRWS        - National Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. N0270-CHA)
OED         - Operations Evaluation Department
PHRD        - Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIP         - Project Implementation Plan
PMO         - Project Management Office
PPO         - Provincial Project Office
QCBS        - Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
RAP         - Resettlement Action Plan
RWS          Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. 1578-CHA)
RWSS        - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2336-CHA)
SOEs        - (I )Statements of Expenditures (2) State Owned Enterprises
SDPC        - State Development Planning Commission
UNDP        - United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    - United Nations Children's Fund
VAT         - Value Added Tax
WAs         - Withdrawal Applications
WSP         - UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program
WTP         - Willingness to Pay
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director: Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager: Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader: George Plant, EACCF



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective .................................................................3
1. Project development objective .................................................................3
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................3
B Strategic Context .................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........3
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................5
C  Project Description Summary .................................................................6
1. Project components .................................................................6
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................7
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements .............................................................8
D Project Rationale ................................................................                                                               12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...............................                                .................... 15
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project ................................................................ 15
E  Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                       16
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                          16
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                          16
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                          18
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                      19
5. Social ............................................................... 19
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                          20
7. Participatory approach ............................................................... 21
F Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                                        22
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                                    22
2. Critical Risks ...............................................................                                                    22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...............................................................                                    24
G  Main Loan Conditions ...............................................................                                                           24
1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................................................... 24
2. Other ............................................................... 24



ii
H Readiness for Implementation ........................                           25
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                          26
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .27
Annex 2. Project Description .30
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .37
Annex 4. Economic Analysis .38
Annex 5. Financial Summary .46
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .48
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements            .51
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .52
Table D.  Schedule of Disbursements .53
Annex 7. Project Processing Schedule .60
Annex 8. Documents in the Project File .61
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .62
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .66
Map



CHINA
Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Country Operations Division
Date: April 16, 1999                              Team Leader: George N. Plant
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang             Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Varma
Project ID: 57352                                 Sector(s): WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         [E Credit       Li Grant        CI Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 46 (IBRD Loan: 16, IDA Credit: 30)
Proposed Terms: O To be defined  LI Multicurrency N Single currency U.S. dollars
151 Standard Variable El Fixed      N LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           5; 10
Years to maturity:              20; 35
Commitment fee:                 0.75; 0.5%
Service charge                  0; 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan      1.00%
Governinent                                                   23.00            0.00         23.00
IBRD                                                           4.00           12.00         16.00
IDA                                                            7.40          22.60          30.00
BENEFICIARIES                                                 23.00            0.00         23.00
| Total:                                                      57.40           34.60         92.00
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Health
Implementing agency(ies):
National Patriotic Health Campaign Cornmittee, China Water Supply and Sanitation National Project Office
Address: 17 Government Street
-Changping County
People's Republic of China
Contact Person: Mr. Zhang Yiren, Standing Deputy Director
Tel: (86-10) 6974-4468               Fax: (86-10) 6974-4437               Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual    6.30          8.40        10.80      10.60        6.70         3.20



Cumulativel   6.30   |    14.70  |    25.50  |    36.10  |   42.80  |    46.00
Project implementation period: July 1999 to December 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/99  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998
-2-



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project aims to reduce the time and cost for people in poor rural areas to obtain clean, safe
water supply, while improving related sanitation and health behaviors through education and pilot
investments. The principal objective of the project is to provide access to safe, conveniently located water
to 3.1 million poor rural people in Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou, and Hainan provinces, and to improve related
water and sanitation practices. A supporting objective is to provide the water at the lowest possible cost
and to ensure its sustainability through good maintenance and accounting practices.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
1. Number of villagers newly served by project-supplied water meeting national rural water quality
standards, with the goal of serving 3.1 million over five years;
2. (a) Number of sanitary latrines constructed in villages in the project counties in addition to the school
and household demonstration latrines constructed in each village under the project, and (b) percentage point
improvement compared to the baseline period in key water-related health behaviors;
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
The China Country Assistance Strategy highlighted human development as one of the five major themes in
Bank support for China's development. Within that theme, poverty reduction plays a major program role.
The poverty reduction program seeks to increase the resources controlled by the poor, be these income
generating (such as improved agricultural land), contributing to future productivity (education), or
protecting physical well being (health). Improving rural water and sanitation meets several of those goals.
It typically releases labor for other purposes, can itself be a productive input, and by lowering pollutant and
pathogen intake by the poor, helps protect their health.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In the past decade, China has made significant gains in rural water supply. Between 1985 and 1997, the
number of rural residents with convenient access to improved water has more than tripled, to over 848
million, or 88.9 percent of China's 954 million rural people. Of these, approximately 407 million people
(48 percent of those with access to improved water) presently drink piped water. The remaining 441
million (52 percent of those with access to improved water) use a variety of other sources, including
handpumps, shallow and deep wells, and rainwater collectors. The preference of Chinese governmental
agencies is for the development of piped systems because of the added convenience and the ease of
controlling water quality.
Having access to an improved water source, however, is not equivalent to having access to safe water.
While almost all piped water systems meet the government's standards for safe water quality, the same is
not true for hand pumps and other systems. Only about 95 million beneficiaries of non-piped systems
enjoy access to safe water. The remaining 346 million rural residents use water which is improved, but
nevertheless still does not meet the standards of safe water.
-3-



Therefore, despite recent progress, more than 450 million rural Chinese continue to suffer from unsafe or
insufficient water supplies. About 76% of these are individuals having access to improved water which
does not meet the quality of safe water, while the remaining 24% lack access to any improved water source.
Both of these groups face problems such as water sources with high pathogen loads due to fecal or other
contamination; water with high levels of naturally occurring fluoride, arsenic, or salts; growing industrial
and agricultural chemical pollution; and seasonal water shortages.
In China, as in other countries, the lack of safe water correlates highly with poverty. Also positively
correlated with poverty are behaviors that worsen water-related disease. Examples include failure to
protect water sources from contamination, to boil water before drinking, or to wash hands after using the
toilet and before preparing or eating food. As a result, many poor rural people suffer from common
diarrheal diseases and helminth infections and, more rarely, dysentery, hepatitis, typhoid and cholera.
To maintain momentum gained during the United Nations "International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade" (1981-90), in 1991, China set 1995 rural water supply goals at: 35 to 50 percent
coverage of drinking water meeting international quality standards, including 35 to 40 percent of rural
residents receiving piped water supplies. Both goals were met and even more ambitious goals established
for 2000. In its Ninth Five-Year Plan, the government announced its targets of providing piped water
systems for 50% of China's rural population, and of providing safe water for 85% of all rural residents and
65% of those residing in China's poorest rural areas by 2000.
However, China differs from many other developing countries in that there is not a history of the central
govermment providing large subsidies for the financing of rural water supply and sanitation. Instead, there
is greater emphasis on self-reliance with rural people using their own contributions and resources to
improve their water supply. This financing structure causes poor rural areas to accurately match their
ability to pay with the proper type of systems and level of service. As a result, China is held up as a model
for other developing countries. Support for capital costs for water supply is partially provided by the local
and/or provincial government. However, this support cannot reach all poor rural areas, and multilateral
and bilateral assistance is welcomed by the government.
Health problems caused by the lack of safe water are exacerbated by poor sanitary conditions in rural
China. Traditionally, Chinese households collect human waste and transport it to the fields for use as
fertilizer, often without further treatment. This practice will undoubtedly continue. The main objectives of
sanitation improvements are therefore to improve the standard of latrines and to make reuse practices more
hygienic. By 1997, 90 percent of rural households had some sort of household latrine, but most of these
facilities are rudimentary at best: they provide temporary storage of wastes and are unprotected from flies
and other insect vectors of disease transmission. Only 29 percent of the rural population use "sanitary"
latrines, usually defined as latrines with full walls and roof, odorless and insect-free; an additional 27
percent, primarily in county towns, have access to composting latrines that promise high rates of pathogen
destruction. The availability of public and school latrines is low, and they rarely meet the "sanitary"
standard.
In recent years, China has made substantial progress in addressing sanitation issues. Since 1995, the
number of households with "sanitary" latrines has nearly doubled. In the Ninth Five-Year Plan, the
government announced the ambitious goal of establishing "sanitary" latrines for 40% of the rural
population by 2000. Until recently, efforts by the National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
(NPHCC) to expand the use of improved rural latrines have been decentralized, with most improvements
left up to individual provinces or townships.
-4-



Nevertheless, the government has made a concerted effort to promote good health-related behaviors. In
most rural areas, a network of NPHCC workers, Women's Federation representatives, Youth Leagues,
local epidemic prevention stations, and schools have led health education campaigns encouraging a wide
array of hygienic behaviors. That work, combined with a high literacy rate (even in poor areas), has led to
widespread knowledge of many basic health behaviors, such as the importance of drinking boiled water.
However, actual behavioral change has been slow to follow, especially in poor areas where fuel may be
scarce and understanding of the link between raw water or unwashed hands and diarrhea is tenuous. Thus,
the problem is more one of the effectiveness of health messages than of their dissemination: health
education in most rural areas provides little concrete information to link hygienic behavior to improved
health, and most provinces still lack specialized health education training.
As a result, significant disparities exist between poorer and wealthier rural counties, both among and within
provinces in China. While a number of wealthier and middle-income rural counties have experienced
tremendous health-related benefits as a result of improvements in water supply and sanitation, poorer
counties with more limited resources have yet to receive similar benefits and still require additional support
in order to carry out the changes necessary for improved health gains.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project aims to complement China's efforts in improving rural water supply and sanitation and build
on previous Bank Group sector experience, by providing financing to 27 counties in 4 provinces for water
supply, sanitation and health education, and project management. It adopts a linked approach in which
physical investnents in water supply are combined with efforts in sanitation and health education, and
efforts in project management, in order to maximize the benefits in terms of time, cost, and increased
productivity gained from improved water supply. An IDA credit of $30 million and IBRD loan of $16
million will make up 50 percent of the project's total investment of $92 million; the other 50 percent will be
provided by provincial and local governments, and by the individuals benefiting from the project.
Ultimately, most of the costs of the project will be borne by individual beneficiaries, through capital and
in-kind contributions and through water tariffs that finance loan repayment.
This project addresses the following three key issues: 1) expansion of safe water supply in poor rural areas;
2) improvement of existing efforts in sanitation and health education; and 3) strengthening of the project
management capacity. The strategic choices involved in each are discussed below:
Water Supply. As discussed earlier, over 450 million rural Chinese still lack access to safe water supply.
This project would alleviate the problems of 3.1 million individuals by providing safe water supply systems
which are sustainably financed. In recent years, Chinese governmental agencies have shown a heavy
preference for the development of piped systems in many rural areas. Of the total rural population that is
currently adequately served with safe water, over 80 percent get their water through piped systems.
Although construction and maintenance costs per person for piped systems are often higher than for hand
pumps or similar facilities, government officials prefer piped systems when financing can be arranged
because of the added convenience and the ease of controlling water quality. However, as long as adequate
measures are taken to protect the sources, handpumps, wells, and rainwater collectors may also be used to
provide safe drinking water. Handpumps often serve communities where population is sparse and/or
ground and surface water is scarce; rainwater collectors are primarily used in mountainous regions, where
rainfall is plentiful, but access to surface water is difficult. One key concern is therefore the nature of the
water supply system itself. A second is the overall size and capacity of the individual system. This project
will ensure that village input is sought in both regards, when determining the appropriate scheme for water
-5-



supply for each individual sub-project. Responsibility for the management of the water system will lie with
the village(s) and/or township(s), depending on the overall complexity of the system.
Sanitation and Health Education. International experience has shown that promotion of sanitation and
health education, in conjunction with improvements in rural water supply, raises the overall impact of the
project. For this reason, sanitation and health education efforts will be incorporated into this project, as
was also the case with the second and third rural water supply projects in China. As mentioned earlier,
existing efforts often fail to foster effective understanding of the link between certain hygienic behaviors
and improved health. This project will focus on constructing very specific health messages and carefully
targeting the messages' audience, rather than delivering general injunctions to behave well.
Most poor rural areas in China are also in need of physical improvements in sanitation. Improvements
which increased the pathogen kill rate would have positive impact on overall health. However, the cost
associated with construction of a "sanitary" and/or composting latrine are high enough to place them out of
the reach of most villagers in poorer counties. Moreover, while some positive social externalities can be
obtained from construction of improved latrines in private households, it is not clear that these are large
enough to justify the substantial subsidies necessary to finance such sanitation improvements. This project
therefore focuses more on raising the awareness of the benefits of improved sanitation by construction of
demonstration latrines in village schools and in three households per project village, and will provide
information to households on design alternatives and their costs through the health and hygiene education
program.
Project Management. Finally, efforts will need to be made to increase the capacity of the various project
offices to provide services to beneficiary villages. Project office staff will need to obtain training in various
project management skills. Efforts will also need to be made to determine effective strategies for conveying
sanitation and health education messages and for inducing actual behavioral change.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will comprise of the following for each of the three main project components:
Water Supply: Provision of safe water, suitably financed, to poor commnunities currently lacking such
supplies. This will include both piped as well as non-piped systems (i.e. handpumps and rain catchmnents).
Also, in order to ensure low-cost operation and project sustainability, the project will provide support for
training of water system manager(s), operator(s), and accountant(s). Users will be expected to pay for the
full cost of the water, net of government investment.
Sanitation and Health Education: Assistance to ongoing rural sanitation and health education efforts.
This component would work with primary school teachers, village doctors, Women's Federation
representatives, and public health systems in their efforts to imnprove water use and sanitation practices in
the villages. It would support demonstration programs to increase use of improved latrines; the preparation
of health education messages aimed at expanding the adoption of improved sanitation and hygiene practices
among the target beneficiaries, primarily housewives, school-aged children and decisionmakers in
households; and training of health education specialists in delivery of those messages.
-6-



Project Management: Support to increase project office capacity to provide services to beneficiary
villages. This would include surveys and research on effective strategies to expand adoption of improved
sanitation and convey health messages. It would encompass training in project management skills such as
procurement, water supply technologies, water quality protection, and health message delivery.
A summary of the costs of each of these components is listed below:
Indic~~~~~~tIv~~~~        %Aof
Componen           -iSetorh t                         % i f    fina' i ng    8ank-
--- _ _- _._._._:--:_ _._-__       _:_:-_:__ _ _           M)    T o:      J     L    fn a ncin g
Water Supply                                            74.20        80.7     40.90       88.9
Sanitation and Health Education                          7.30         7.9      3.70        8.0
Project Management                                        4.90        5.3       1.20       2.6
Total Project Costs                     86.40       93.9      45.80      99.6
Interest during construction                   5.40        5.9       0.00        0.0
Front-end fee                      0.20        0.2       0.20       0.4
Total Financing Required                     92.00       100.0     46.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
No key reforms, beyond those identified in the third project, will be necessary in this project, since the
necessary policy and institutional arrangements have already been established in the Bank's three previous
rural water supply projects in China --Rural Water Supply (RWS) Project (Cr. 1578-CHA), Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) Project (Cr. 2336-CHA), and National Rural Water Supply (NRWS)
Project (Cr. N027-CHA).
3. Benefits and target population:
The project investment strategy targets benefits on poor villages, while seeking a positive net present value
(NPV) of investments. Because economic demand for safe water is positively correlated with income, NPV
from private water demand would have been maximized by targeting unserved, yet high-income, villages.
Instead, the project strategy recognizes that important public health and social welfare externalities are not
captured in private demand. Because of concerns regarding these externalities, the project centers on
obtaining positive, though not necessarily maximized, system NPVs, and on having systems yield adequate
returns to ensure project financial sustainability.
Based on case studies in earlier, similar China projects, private demand for the new system derives
primarily from time savings in fetching water. However, improved water supply has been shown to have a
broad array of other benefits such as reducing waterborne diseases and providing an input to production.
Previous rural water projects in China have shown that project investments in rural water supply and in
better health and sanitation behaviors result in significant improvements in the health of many rural
residents. An international literature review of similar projects has shown that moving to safe water
reduced diarrheal morbidity by 16 percent, and substantially increased water quantities reduced morbidity
25 percent, with a joint effect of 37 percent if both conditions were met. Hygiene education also offers
documented improvements in health outcomes. The Implementation Completion Report for the Bank's first
rural water supply (RWS) project (Cr. 1578-CHA) reported sharp declines in morbidity of dental
fluorosis among children, in dysentery and in water-borne diseases in nearly every project county, as well
as substantial savings in medical expenditures incurred by households.
-7-



An operating financial covenant requiring that water tariffs cover all operations and maintenance costs and
the greater of (a) interest charges and depreciation or (b) debt service, combined with a 25 percent initial
villager capital contribution, serves as a key decision variable for village participation in the project. The
corresponding tariff is estimated during feasibility studies and villagers choose whether or not to
participate, and choose among system alternatives, based on those estimated costs. The tariff alone meets
the financial sustainability requirement and would yield at least a 3 percent economic rate of return (ERR)
even in the absence of consumer's surplus. Although the investment-decision rule faced by the community
implies a minimum expected positive ERR, it does not automatically follow that consumer's surplus would
be sufficient to raise the ERR above the 12 percent discount rate used for Bank Group China projects,
hence yield a positive NPV. Actual project consumer surplus will vary by village, and indeed by season for
a given village, and be highly dependent on the cost of alternative supplies. Where alternative supplies are
currently available at a slightly higher economic cost than those from the proposed project, consumer
surplus will be low. However, villages with such alternative supplies are unlikely to bid for the project, for
they face a relatively high risk of facing negative net benefits from project investments. The positive
externalities associated with improved public health and social welfare, although not explicitly estimated,
reinforce the expectation of a positive NPV from the investments in safe water.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Timetable.
Past Bank rural water supply projects in China have focused on building small, primarily piped water
systems designed to satisfy an estimated 15 year demand. Total project implementation time would be
about 5 years. Approximately 10-15% of the water systems will begin construction in the first and fifth
years, with higher proportions falling in the middle years. Based on experience under the NRWS project
(Cr. N027-CHA), each year's implementation cycle begins with consultations and village-level feasibility
studies and the development of procurement lists; these annual work plans are consolidated at the national
level and submitted to IDA/IBRD for review in the fourth quarter of each calendar year, for construction
beginning the first quarter of the following year. This arrangement has proven quite satisfactory under the
NRWS project, and allows ample time for discussion on any issues that may arise between the Bank and
the borrower.
Project supervision would monitor impact with respect to the objectives and focus on key sector issues such
as beneficiary participation in system design, water plant operator and accountant training, and
socioeconomic and health impacts of the project. Bank Group experience with supervision of the RWSS
project (Cr. 2336-CHA), which like the proposed project covers a large number of counties, suggests that
supervision would require about 85 staff-weeks over the life of the project, of which about 60 staff-weeks
would be in the field. The Bank resident mission will provide initial review of procurement actions. More
intensive supervision would be required during the first three years of the project, during which time project
counties would gain experience with new means of beneficiary participation and national and international
procurement. Supervision would be provided by financial analysts, water systems engineers, health and
sanitation education specialists, and other specialists as needed. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that a mid-term review, to be undertaken no later than June 1, 2002, will review progress in meeting
project objectives, as reflected by the monitoring indicators. The review will identify any changes needed
to meet those project objectives, including but not limited to reallocation offunds and commitment of
additional counterpart funds. Also, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the NPO will (i)
prepare, not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such later date to be agreed with the Bank
a plan for the future operation of the project; and (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views on said plan.
-8-



Implementing Agencies:
The responsibility for project management and implementation is divided among national, provincial and
county levels. At each level, Leading Groups will be established to provide policy guidance and advice of
an intersectoral nature. Their responsibilities include: (a) formation and staffing of project offices; (b)
oversight of project offices; (c) resolution of policy issues that arise during project implementation; and (d)
coordination of project issues across project related government bureaus. The National Leading Group is
headed by the Minister of Health. Provincial Leading Groups are headed by standing vice-governors
responsible for health matters, with at least two bureau directors as members. County-level Leading
Groups are headed by county magistrates and such bureau directors as the magistrate deems important to
project execution.
Descriptions of the composition and the specific implementation responsibilities for the project management
offices (PMO) at each level are as follows:
National Project Office. The National Project Office (NPO), which was established to manage the RWSS
Project, is attached to the Ministry of Health. Its working site is part of the China Rural Water Supply
Technical Center, which provides logistical support to the NPO. The NPO has a staff of 20, including one
director, one deputy standing director, one deputy director, three water supply engineers, four health
education and sanitation specialists, three accountants, two procurement officers, one interpreter, and four
staff members for general affairs. The NPO is responsible for overall project design, general project
guidance to Provincial Project Offices (PPO) and County Project Offices (CPO), and monitoring of project
progress and quality. Specific responsibilities include:
(a)    Design Review: Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the NPO would
appraise, using agreed criteria, all water supply investments with an estimated total
investment above Y 3. 0 million for the quality of their engineering andfinancial
preparation and their overallfeasibility. Procurement ofproject-related works would
not commence prior to successful NPO appraisal. In addition, the NPO will be expected
to conduct site reviews of not fewer than 8 of the largest provincial projects in any given
year.
(b)    Procurement: The NPO will formulate, lead, and monitor all International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procurement of goods.
(c)    Agreements: The NPO will execute all agreements related to the project and will ensure
compliance with regulations applicable to the project.
(d)    Baseline Surveys: The NPO will develop and oversee the carrying out of the project
baseline surveys. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the provinces will
complete the baseline surveys for villages receiving new water supplies in 2000 and
submit them to the NPO no later than December 1, 1999. The NPO shall consolidate
and analyze those surveys, submitting them to the Bank no later than January 1, 2000.
(e)    Training: The NPO will be responsible for organizing and implementing training
programs at the national level.
(f)    Sanitation and Health Education The NPO will be responsible for the development of
-9-



health education materials.
(g)    Project Reporting and Annual Work Plan: The NPO is responsible for consolidation of
provincial project reports and for mandatory progress reporting to the World Bank.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a comprehensive project Annual Work
Plan (A WP) for the following year would be prepared and submitted to the Bankfor
review and approval no later than November 30 of each year.
(h)    Accounts and Audits: The NPO will prepare a national consolidated account of project
expenditures, to be submitted to the Bank no later than 6 months after the end of the fiscal
year. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) details NPO audit responsibilities.
Provincial Project Offices. The PPO staff are drawn from such provincial departments as planning,
finance, water conservancy and power, agriculture, urban construction, tax, and patriotic health campaign
committee offices. A director and from 12 to 16 technical, financial and operational staff constitute the
PPOs. The PPOs are responsible for organization, direction and supervision of the implementation of
county-level projects, and for quality of project design and management at the provincial level:
(a)    Design Review: Assurance were obtained at negotiations that the PPOs would appraise,
using agreed criteria, all investments with an estimated total investment above Y 0.5
million and not exceeding Y 3. 0 million for the quality of their engineering and financial
preparation and their overallfeasibility. Within the mandatory review limits,
procurement ofproject-related works would not commence prior to successful PPO
appraisal. In addition, PPOs will be expected to conduct site review of no fewer than 20
projects per year, including at least two projects below the mandatory review limit size.
(b)    Procurement: PPOs will arrange for the formulation of annual ICB goods procurement
lists, and subsequently, for the acceptance and distribution of goods received under ICB
procurement. They will manage procurement of civil works contracts with an estimated
value of more than $100,000.
(c)    Training: PPOs will be responsible for planning and execution of the provincial-level
training program. They will lead the training for the county health education programs,
and will assist the NPO in the design of health education materials.
(d)    Project Reporting and Annual Work Plans: PPOs will consolidate all investment
implementation information and prepare monitoring reports to be submitted to the NPO,
for further consolidation and submission to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that provincial project A WPs for the followingyear would be prepared and
submitted to the NPO for review and approval no later than October 15 of each year.
(e)    Accounts: PPOs will prepare consolidated accounts of provincial project expenditures, to
be retained at the PPO for mission review. They will carry out an annual review of all
water system and county-level audits ensuring that counties act on audit findings.
County Project Offices. The CPOs work under the guidance of county-level Leading Groups and have 12
to 15 staff drawn from the same range of technical backgrounds as the provincial project offices. The
CPOs will include qualified construction supervision staff and have recourse to county-level quality
-10-



assurance offices when additional supervisors are needed The CPOs are responsible for project planning at
the county level, including design, construction and supervision of water supply investments at the
township and village level:
(a)    Design Review and Supervision: The CPOs have responsibility for approval of designs
with investment cost less than Y 0.5 million. Designs are completed only after feasibility
studies in which villages participate. The village committee must formally approve the
concept to be developed. Where CPOs lack sufficient supervisory expertise, they will
contract local construction quality assurance offices to augment that capacity. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations thatfor all water systems with total investment above Y 0.5
million, the county quality assurance office would be retained to verify that construction
practices and standards have met design specifications.
(b)    Procurement: CPO procurement responsibilities include preparation of procurement
documents and all aspects of the civil works tendering, bid evaluation and award process.
(c)    Sanitation and Health Education Progrant CPOs also have responsibility for planning,
design, construction and management of sanitation facilities under the project, as well as
for assisting the NPO in carrying out the project baseline survey. They will work with the
NPO and PPOs in designing health education work and will execute the resulting work
program.
(d)    Project Evaluation and Reporting: The CPOs are responsible for preparation of
quarterly implementation progress reports for submission to PPOs, and for ensuring that
audit requirements under the project are met.
(e)    Audit: CPOs will prepare consolidated accounts of county project expenditures, to be
retained at the CPO for mission review.
Communities. The communities benefiting from the project will (a) decide their participation in the project
and level of service by choosing to sign the village commitment letter and paying the upfront cash
contribution, or not; (b) provide in-kind contribution of labor and materials needed for construction of the
water facilities; (c) supply (in most cases) the water facility manager, operator and accountant who will be
responsible for operating and maintaining the systems and collecting tariff revenues; (d) pay a water tariff
sufficient to meet the operating revenue covenant; and (e) coordinate with the County Finance Bureaus
repayment of the loan and credit. Communities, either at the county, township or village level, will
ultimately take over ownership of the water facilities depending on the scope of the investments.
-11-



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Sanitation physical investments: Most of the physical investments in this project are related to water
supply rather than sanitation. This is because in previous Bank projects in China, efforts in sanitation and
health education have fared worse than water supply. The Bank's first project supported only water
supply. The Implementation Completion Report from the first project noted that integration of water
supply with health education and sanitation would substantially increase health impacts. The second
therefore added such components. The sanitation work sought to replace existing latrines with composting
latrine models having high pathogen kill rates. Unfortunately, the cost of meeting mandated material and
construction quality requirements of the approved latrine designs placed them out of reach for most of the
poor villages targeted by the project. The issue of affordability was remedied in part through subsidies;
however, these failed to provide even a short-term solution for individual poor households. The third
project recognized from Chinese and international experience that willingness-to-pay (WTP) for improved
latrines correlates highly with income. In the poor areas served by this project, if individual households
with a high WTP could be identified, the village has the option of investing in designs and other technical
assistance, but the emphasis under the project is on changing water and sanitatiun-related behavior. The
proposed fourth project would follow on this model.
Project area selection: The major design challenge is to target funds on those who are poor but
nonetheless have sufficient resources to upgrade their water supply once long-term financing can be
provided. The main risk is that these funds will be captured by middle-income communities rather than the
poor (higher income communities have already moved to safe piped water supply). With the exception of
Guizhou province, this project uses designation as a national- or provincial-level poor county as a basic
targeting tool. Experience from previous water supply projects in China has shown that this approach has
been met generally with success. In each province, the participating counties were selected according to
their: (a) rural poverty, in which the poorest counties were given first rights of participation; (b)
percentage of rural people lacking access to improved water supplies; (c) number of people exposed to
unsafe water, as evidenced by fluoride or alkali content, or by the incidence of gastrointestinal illness; (d)
existing provincial plans targeting priority areas of rural water improvement; (e) demonstrated ability to
provide the needed counterpart funds; and (f) willingness to form and staff a county project office to agreed
standards. Because Guizhou is one of China's poorest provinces, county selection criterion was widened to
include all counties, with particular emphasis on the county's need for water supply improvements and the
beneficiaries' ability to repay the loan/credit. To minimize the risk that funds will be diverted to
middle-income communities, this project will not finance any water systems in county seats in any of the
four provinces, given our expectation that these areas are able to finance these projects themselves.
Given the repayment constraint, the project does not target the poorest of the poor villages which are not
able to afford the long-term costs of the project. While many of these villages are in need of improved
water supply, they will have to rely on grant programs to provide financing. Instead, this project targets
those poor villages just above this level, with the resources to upgrade their water supply once long-term
financing is provided. Within each of these beneficiary villages, the poorest people will gain access to safe
water. Because of the repayment constraint, and also the importance of building financially self-sustaining
water systems, this targeting was deemed appropriate.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
-12-



LatestSupervision
Sector tssue         -Project                       :   E P SR Ra&
_(Bank4inanced p rje  ! ony
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rural water supply                 China Rural Water Supply (Cr.    NA            NA
1578-CHA)
Rural water supply, sanitation, and    China Rural Water Supply and  S             S
health education                   Sanitation (Cr. 2336-CHA)
Rural water supply, sanitation, and    China National Rural Water    S             S
health education                   Supply (Cr. N027-CHA)
Other development agencies
Rural water supply and sanitation  UNICEF: 1996-2000 Water
and Environmental Sanitation
Programme
Health education and rural water supply "Knowledge for Life" program
technical assistance               UNDP/World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program (WSP)
Rural water supply technical and   1991 "Capacity Building and
preparatory assistance            Investment Preparation for
rural Water Supply and
Sanitation in Poor and Remote
Areas" (CPR/91/141)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3.. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Cost recovery: Earlier projects established that Chinese villagers, even in poor areas, would contribute
capital and pay tariffs sufficient to finance safe and convenient water supply. Furthermore, despite
abandoning collective farming, the village collective management structure remains sufficiently robust to
manage water systems. The Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's evaluation of the first China rural
water project financed by IDA confirmed that finding, as well as financial and health benefits from water
supply investments. The second (RWSS) project was completed in December 1998. From this, we expect
to obtain some quantification of the levels of cost recovery. Identified weaknesses in both projects include
occasional excess optimism, hence system overdesign, and the need to improve quality through increased
project office supervision of design and construction. Measures will be taken in this project to ensure that
these weaknesses are corrected. The economic analysis for the third (NRWS) project, as well as interviews
with potential beneficiaries, showed that even the poorest villagers consider the health gains from clean
water supply well worth the minimal upfront costs. Nearly all villagers are able and willing to pay for such
investments. Despite some weaknesses in a limited number of sub-projects, overall, by international
standards, water supply projects in China are extraordinary in their cost recovery and sustainability.
Needfor greater focus on education rather than physical sanitation investments., Experience from earlier
projects suggest the importance of focusing efforts on health and hygiene education, rather than physical
-13-



sanitation investments, as a means of inducing behavioral change. For more details, see discussion above
in Question 1.
Needfor realistic expectations in terms of behavioral change:
Although basic health knowledge is fairly widespread, behavior in rural areas often does not match that
knowledge. Experience from the previous projects suggests that even with higher quality education efforts,
actual behavioral change can be a slow process. Slow progress in changing behavior does not invalidate
health education efforts. A peer reviewer for the third water supply and sanitation project pointed out that,
"on a dollar-to-dollar basis, it costs less to achieve health benefits from sanitation and health education than
from making water available." Previous projects in China as well as others worldwide have demonstrated
the importance of careful targeting and very specific health messages, rather than general injunctions to
behave well. This project will build on the experience acquired in the previous three projects in China, and
continue to support the use of monitoring indicators and baseline surveys to help refine health messages and
their delivery, thereby increasing the efficiency of these efforts.
Needfor strong project management at the national, provincial, and local levels:
Previous experience has shown that the most successful Bank-financed projects in China have a strong
commitment from the borrower as well as strong leading groups and strong PMOs at the national,
provincial, and local levels. The PMOs must be staffed with qualified, experienced, and competent staff in
the key areas of engineering, procurement, accounting/finance, and sanitation and health education. This
project will ensure that the same requirements for project management are kept at all levels. Development
of the capacity of PMOs at all levels will be addressed through training workshop programs during project
preparation and implementation.
Needfor measures to safeguard against overdesign of water systems:
In the second (RWSS) project, a limited number of water systems were overdesigned, with negative effects
for cost recovery. This was because in the RWSS project, the criteria for system design were determined
on an ad hoc basis. To correct for this problem, for the third (NRWS) project, the design manual was
updated and required to be followed. Also, increased emphasis was placed on rigorous review of designs to
ensure that they are realistic with actual local consumption needs, and World Bank monitoring of the
review process was increased. This project will follow those measures taken by the NRWS project.
Needfor quality maintenance:
Another lesson gathered from the RWSS project was that of the necessity to provide training in operations
and finance to local water plant staff in order to maintain the quality of each individual scheme. In the
RWSS project, funding for such training was not included in the project and had to come out of local
government budgets. As a result, training in some instances was inadequate, and the quality of the
investment was not always successfully maintained. This was corrected in the NRWS project, with the
inclusion of project funding for local training, and will continue in the fourth project as well.
-14-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Beneficiaries' commitment to their individual water scheme is demonstrated through their willingness to
contribute cash and in-kind contributions upfront to the construction of the water plant. These
contributions amount to 25 percent of the overall costs of the project, and represent a substantial
investment for most households. Such a payment mechanism, whereby contributions are collected upfront,
ensures that only those villagers wishing to participate will receive household connections to the new water
supply. In order to make this decision, villagers will need information about the options, costs, and benefits
of the new water scheme. Thus, this mechanism also helps ensure that the village and township leadership
thoroughly discusses the options and rationale for the project during the design phase for each water
system, and solicit villagers' input concerning the design, as the leadership will ultimately rely upon
villagers' upfront contributions to help pay for the costs of construction. Previous experience has shown
that such a mechanism can be effective means for stakeholders to have a voice in the overall design of a
scheme; in the second project, there are a number of documented instances where villagers, after
discussions of options with local leadership, triggered significant changes in the design of the eventual
water system. All water supply schemes for the project will be required to have the approval of the Village
Committee in a document with an official seal. This document will represent the comnnitment of the village
leadership to the water system. Following construction of the water supply system, ownership of the water
plant will transfer to the village(s) and/or township(s), depending on the size of the system. The
management and staff of most water plants will also come from local villages and townships. This ensures
that local beneficiaries have the largest input and stake in the operations and maintenance of the plant.
Upon operation of the new system, villagers will continue to receive information about and provide input on
water quality. As part of the implementation of the health education component, village doctors, primary
school teachers and Women's Federation representatives will also be involved in the information
dissemination to the target beneficiaries.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The supply of clean water to rural people is a high priority of the Chinese government, and past experience
shows extremely high willingness to pay by project beneficiaries. Even the poorer villages have a proven
good track record for long-term cost recovery; however, many poor villages cannot afford the upfront
capital costs of constructing even modest systems. In China, there is little direct financing for the rural
water supply and sanitation sector from the central government. Instead, rural people rely mainly on their
own contributions or local government subsidies to improve water supply. The IBRD loan / IDA credit
and government counterpart financing will allow the beneficiary upfront capital contribution to fall from
1 00 percent to 25 percent of total investment, considerably broadening the number of villages able to invest
in safe water supply. Bank involvement thus allows capital costs to be met on a long-term basis, with most
villagers paying no more than 3 percent of annual income for access to safe water supply. Without the
Bank's support, most project villages would not be able to invest in the proposed water supply
improvements. Bank involvement also ensures that water supply and treatment plants are more technically
sound than might otherwise be the case.
Moreover, the Bank can bring international experience to bear on the issues of health and sanitation
education - issues which have been well-covered by China's mass education campaigns, but need to be
more effectively implemented. Health messages may be better targeted and alternative sanitation designs
may be proposed and implemented as a result of the Bank's involvement.
-15-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
Ideally, participating villages would be chosen by evaluating the NPV generated by water investmnents,
including public health, social welfare, or other externalities, and choosing that set of investments that
maximized the surplus value across all villages. However, generating such information over the nearly 500
piped water and 300 non-piped systems proposed would be excessively costly, if even possible to an
acceptable level of uncertainty. A robust alternative test has been chosen, that of requiring villages to pass
a test of revealed demand-a willingness to supply 25 percent of upfront capital costs and levy water
tariffs that cover the full operating costs of and loans incurred by the system. That test, a covenant in the
project described more fully in the financial analysis below, justifies the project in terms of private demand.
It also guarantees a positive private economic rate of return and, as shown in greater detail in the Economic
Analysis contained in Annex 4, can be expected to result in a positive net present value for the project.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Government Counterpart Finan!cin
Provincial Finance: Provincial counterpart funding is expected to average 5 percent, or $4.8 million, of the
$92 million total project financing requirements. Provincial revenues allocated to fund this project are from
several sources: agriculture, enterprise and commercial taxes, and special allocations from the Drinking
Water for Humans and Animals Fund and Small-Scale Water Conservancy Project Fund. Due to project
financing commitments, on average, rural water supply, health education and sanitation expenditures of the
participating provincial governments will increase between 3 to 40 percent during the implementation of the
proposed project. However, the provincial counterpart funding requirement remains less than 0.2 percent
of projected provincial on-budget expenditures, and in the event prefectures or counties are unable to meet
their counterpart funding obligations during implementation, provinces should be able to meet the shortfall.
Prefecture, County and Township Finance: Prefectures, counties and townships contribute the largest
share of proposed government fmancing-20 percent, or $19.2 million, of total project financing. These
governments, through their finance bureaus, provide all funding not met by the IBRD loan / IDA credit,
beneficiaries and provincial govemrnent contributions. In addition to funding CPO costs, their budgets are
expected to bear a share of the provincial and national project office management fees, and finance the
non-Bank-financed portion of local health and sanitation training. With the beneficiaries, they will finance
a portion of water supply, the full amount of sanitary latrine construction, interest during construction, and
transport, taxes and duties on goods and equipment.
In the past, the project counties have varied in their rural water, health education and sanitation spending as
a proportion of budgetary expenditures, ranging from 0.5 to 6.2 percent. With the proposed project, annual
county-level spending on these sectors will range from 0.5 to 2.6 percent of budgetary expenditures. As a
criterion for county selection, county budgetary revenues plus transfers had to yield a large enough surplus
to service the debt on the IBRD loan / IDA credit and contribute the agreed amount of county counterpart
financing. The respective provincial finance bureaus are responsible for independently assessing the ability
of the prefecture and county governments to provide the required counterpart funds from assured sources
and identifying to the Bank the sources of those funds. During implementation, the pattern of county and
-16-



township financing will vary across years to meet the physical progress needs of construction.
Beneficiarv Financing
Benefiting villagers are expected to pay between 75 and 100 percent of the water supply capital costs:
in-kind labor and materials contributions (typically 10 to 15 percent of the water facility investment costs),
together with upfront cash payments collected prior to construction, make up 25 percent of capital costs.
Through tariffs, the beneficiaries repay the county for the 50 percent of the capital costs covered by the
IBRD loan / IDA credit. The local government contribution (25 percent of capital costs) may also be
recaptured through the water tariff, at the option of the local government.
Beneficiaries will face per capita investment costs averaging between Y1 15 and Y250 for piped water
systems, between Yl40 and Y210 for deep-well handpumps, and Y365 for rainwater collectors. Project
village committees will collect the community and villager cash contributions about 3 to 6 months in
advance of construction to ensure firm commitment from the beneficiaries and to cover startup costs.
The project will seek to identify villagers willing to construct improved household latrines at their own
expense, and in such cases provide technical assistance. In villages where no such households can be
found, but some villagers are able to contribute at least half the cost of an improved latrine in labor and
materials, the project will make a limited amount of funding available to assist in purchasing inputs, for no
more than three household latrines per village. The latter expenses will be covered either by Bank
financing or government grants. By county option, beneficiaries may bear project office management costs
through the water tariff.
Recovery of Water SuPPlY Costs
Rural beneficiaries in China have a long history of paying water supply operation and maintenance costs,
as well as a large portion of the capital costs. This has been true under the three previous Bank-financed
projects and the practice will be continued under this project. In addition to the capital contributions
mentioned above, the tariffs will be set locally and reviewed annually by the CPOs to ensure that they cover
the full costs of water supply. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that, commencing not later than
the second fullfiscal year of operations of such investment, water charges will be established and
collected annually at a level sufficient to cover operations and maintenance costs, administrative costs,
taxes, and the greater of (a) interest charges and depreciation, or (b) debt service requirements (interest
plus principle repayment). No subsidies from government on water supply credit repayment are
anticipated, so tariffs will fully cover these expenses. Water charges are expected to total Y 29 to Y 62 per
person per year (no more than 4 percent of average per capita gross income) depending on location, type of
service, and water volume consumed.
In many smaller communities with piped water systems, water usage is billed according to household size
rather than metered usage. Although this in theory discourages conservation, such supplies are often
intermittent, limited to morning and evening peak demand periods, and the investment and administrative
costs of metering outweigh any efficiency gains. The few poor communities with strong collective
enterprises may use those revenues to partially cover the cost of water. Where water plants offer 24-hour
water supply, the NPO and the Bank encourage the installation of household meters to manage demand.
Rainwater collectors that serve individual households involve large upfront costs, but negligible operations
and maintenance costs. Since these are household systems, debt service costs and capital contribution costs
cannot be recouped through a tariff. Rather, government has the choice of capturing those costs through
general revenues or assessing lump-sum charges on beneficiaries. Other non-piped systems, such as public
-17-



hand pumps, also involve large upfront costs by the end-users. Here, debt service on the IBRD loan / IDA
credit and operations and maintenance costs are generally recouped through monthly usage fees based on
household size.
Fiscal Impact:
As both local and provincial governments have the option of recovering part or all of the costs of their
counterpart financing, the expected fiscal impact of this project will vary depending on how each level of
government chooses to exercise this option.
3. Technical:
This project includes a 5-1/2 year implementation program of numerous water supply systems of low
complexity, serving communities ranging from small individual villages to clusters of villages in
multi-village schemes within a township. Responsibility for design of the water supply sub-projects varies
with size and complexity, with CPOs responsible for the smaller, simpler schemes, and increasing use of
consultant specialists and design institutes as complexity and size increase. Guidelines for this and related
training to PPOs and CPOs are provided by the NPO. Subprojects must be developed through feasibility
studies carried out in accordance with the agreed framework, addressing technical, financial, operation and
maintenance, management and environmental issues
Project design entities must use the " China Rural Water Supply Engineering, Planning, and Design
Manual" (1998 edition), which includes all of the technical standards for the design of rural water projects
in China. The quality of water supplied must meet the national standards for rural water supply. The
design manual provides guidance on such items as water source selection considerations, unit water
demands appropriate to a range of situations, pump selection, treatment processes, disinfection and
controls. Professional judgement is required during the feasibility study and design phases to ensure unit
demands and projections are not overstated, resulting in facilities too large for actual demands. Adherence
to the manual and a provision for comprehensive review of all designs helps ensure that appropriate,
affordable and sustainable options are chosen and efficient, cost-effective designs result.
The water sources are mainly groundwater (underground aquifers and springs) with the remainder utilizing
surface water from streams and rivers, or rainwater collected in underground storage tanks. Water sources
are assessed by the local Water Resources Bureau during the project development phase and during the
operational phase, water quality of sources is monitored regularly by County Anti-epidemic Station.
During preparation of this project, feasibility studies and preliminary designs of the water supply
sub-projects included in the first year (2000) investment program are being carried out. The draft
feasibility reports of 27 of the 43 first year sub-projects were reviewed during pre-appraisal. In most cases,
the proposed systems were technically acceptable. In a limited number of cases, problems emerged
including unit demands being too high for local conditions resulting in unrealistic and unsustainable
designs. These were discussed during pre-appraisal and corrective measures are being taken. During April
and May 1999 preliminary designs will be completed and the data from them will be used to compile the
materials and equipment lists to be included in the first of the annual ICB procurement packages. This
process will occur annually during the project.
-18-



4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Overall execution of the project will be the responsibility of the NPO. This agency
has extensive experience in managing Bank financed projects. Its staff is very familiar with Bank
procedures and guidelines.
b. Project management: Day-to-day implementation and project management will be the responsibility of
the PPOs and CPOs, and will be supervised by the NPO. The NPO will provide training for the staff of the
PPOs and CPOs to ensure that they are familiar with all aspects of the project and the latest Bank
procedures.
5. Social:
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Reflecting the expectation that the land acquisition and resettlement impacts of the project will be modest
and the fact that the actual impacts will be known only on a year-to-year basis, the Bank Group did not
seek an overall Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the project. Rather, a Policy Framework for
Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project-Affected Persons (see PIP) was agreed with the
government during negotiations. The Framework requires each CPO to prepare an annual Resettlement
Inventory if fewer than 150 people are affected and otherwise to prepare a RAP. Each annual Inventory or
RAP will be reviewed by the respective PPO and the NPO for conformity with the Framework and included
in the NPO's AWP. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each province will carry out or
cause to be carried out the resettlement of persons affected by the project according to the agreed
Resettlement Policy Framework and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Investments that may invoke Chinese law or Bank Group policy conceming land acquisition are
village-specific or multivillage piped water supply schemes. In most instances, the amount of land acquired
for each treatment plant is no larger than 4-8 mu (4/15 to 8/15 hectare). Only in a few instances does land
acquisition exceed 8 mu (8/15 hectare). To ensure that planners minimize land acquisition, the Policy
Framework stipulates that where planned or actual land acquisition exceeds 3 mu (1/5 of a hectare) for any
individual investment, the county will be required to obtain PPO no-objection in addition to any local
clearances needed. Where planned or actual land acquisition exceeds 5 mu (1/3 of a hectare) for any
investment, or where residential buildings will be acquired, the county will be required to obtain NPO
no-objection in addition to any local clearances needed. Considerable flexibility usually exists in water
plant siting, so that housing or other buildings need rarely, if ever, be acquired. On the other hand,
acquisition of cultivated land may be difficult to avoid. Where that happens, the current users will be
compensated in a fashion that maintains or increases their standard of living.
Ethnic Minorities
Ethnic minorities constitute a disproportionately high percentage of the overall beneficiary population. In
China, ethnic minorities make up approximately six percent of the country's total population. Of the
( project's 3. 1 million beneficiaries, close to 600,000, or 1 8.4 percent, are ethnic minorities. The majority of
the ethnic minority beneficiaries are found in Guizhou province, where the 484,000 minority beneficiaries
constitute nearly 60 percent of the total. One of the counties in Guizhou is a minority autonomous county,
and in total, provincial officials plan to include 77 minority townships in the project. Ethnic minority
beneficiaries also number 92,000, or 15.4 percent of the total beneficiary population, in Hainan, where half
of the total project counties are minority autonomous counties. In Anhui, the number of the ethnic minority
beneficiaries is 23,200, or 1.8 percent of the total beneficiary population. Only in Fujian are there no
-19-



minority beneficiaries expected in the project.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category D A 7 C
Z B OZFI
The balance of the environmental impact is expected to be substantially positive; however, potential
adverse impacts from construction or a failure to protect water supply sources require the classification of
the project as Category B in terms of the Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment. The PIP
details the environmental mitigation plan developed for the project. The project relies on a thorough review
and supervision process to ensure that environmental concerns are answered. Several organizations share
responsibility for recognizing and mitigating environmental problems. The most important work is
completed during the design stage. Designers must recognize potential problems and design to avoid thern.
This includes attention to the quality and nature of water sources, the engineering and construction
practices dictated in bidding documents, the provision for chlorination or other water treatment, and, in
health education, inclusion of the key health practices. The design responsibilities vary by water supply
system size and complexity, with county project offices undertaking the easier work themselves and
commissioning the more difficult. Chinese design manuals incorporate guidelines for proper water system
construction practices (i.e., minimal ground disturbance, source protection). Design review is provided by
the provincial or national project offices for larger projects. At each review stage, good environmental
practice will be one evaluation criterion. County construction quality assurance offices must certify that
designs are adhered to for projects valued at more than Y 0.5 million. Below that amount, CPOs provide
that service. Finally, for piped water systems, the county environmental protection bureau must certify that
the project complies with government regulations that require the designs to contain appropriate
environmental protection, and ensure that construction and operations observe those regulations. Thus,
standard engineering reviews are supplemented by professional environmental oversight for the systems
most likely to have environmental impacts.
Potential environmental problems must be evaluated against the type of water supply system anticipated.
The bulk of the beneficiaries would use water from piped systems supplied by wells. Wellheads are in
small compounds, protected from surface pollution. Simple chlorination systems are provided in case the
regular water quality testing shows problems with bacteria. If the latter occur, they are most likely to enter
the system from the pipe network, due to the intermittent operation that characterizes the smallest systems.
Villagers will be encouraged to continue boiling water as an additional protection. Other piped systems use
surface water supplies, which face a higher risk of bacterial contamination. Many sources are springs, for
which special source protection measures, including villager education and physical protection from animal
intrusion, will be taken. In the few cases where river water supplies the plant, raw water quality testing
intervals will be shorter and continuous chlorination very likely. Such water plants will have personnel
trained in water quality testing, equipped with standard test kits. These are employed successfully under
previous projects.
Where the improved water supply relies on hand pumps, wells are typically scattered through the villages.
Such wells are more vulnerable to contamination from surface water, livestock, or latrines. Consequently,
well aprons are designed to prevent surface water contamination, wells are cased, and latrines and animal
pens are separated from the wells by minimum adequate distances. Well designs and setback distances are
specified by standard design manuals.
A third type of water supply is rainwater collectors. These channel rainfall runoff, generally from the roofs
of houses, into holding tanks. To minimize pollution from runoff, the systems are manually operated, with
householders instructed to permit the first flush to drain to the ground before directing further runoff into
-20-



the holding tanks. Householders are further trained to periodically add bleach to their tanks to minimize
risk from bacteria, and to continue boiling water. Tanks themselves are impermeable, with the mouth
elevated, covered when not in use, and surrounded by an apron to minimnize pollutant ingress at the
extraction point. The county epidemic prevention station provides semiannual water quality testing for
these tanks.
For any of the well systems, water quality can be a problem due to saline/alkaline water intrusion into
permeable aquifers or to high concentrations of fluorides, arsenic, and other potentially toxic materials.
These problems draw particular attention in this project, for many of the investments would provide new
water sources to escape precisely those problems in current drinking water supplies. Water quality testing
would be carried out for all water sources, and where fluoride and arsenic are problems, that testing will
extend to careful assessment of the geology of the area, to identify sources unaffected by toxins and
unlikely to be affected by them through aquifer recharge. Periodic water testing would then continue to
look for evidence of these problems.
Water extraction in the size plant envisioned here is too small to affect groundwater resources other than in
the immediate surrounds of the well, where the pumping capacity may exceed the aquifer yield. That might
result in damage to the pump, but not to the environment. All new wells would be subject to standard yield
tests, the protocol for which was judged adequate by Bank engineers. Similarly, springfed and surface
water supplies may not provide sustainable supplies through both wet and dry seasons and in drought
periods. However, these local sources are well known, with the larger having documented flow histories
often over hundreds of years. Where needed, such as in one county where several plants will draw from the
same river, a formal hydraulic study would be made to assess the sustainability of the supply and potential
impact on downstream users. Where mitigating actions are necessary, they will be taken.
The project also includes the provision of household and school composting latrines. These latrines,
designed to retain fecal material at a sufficiently high temperature for a sufficiently long time to kill most
pathogens, clearly improve on the current latrines. They are sealed, hence prevent any passage of
pathogens directly into the soil, and when the compost is used on fields it does not threaten surface or
groundwater supplies. Furthermore, the latrines are designed to reduce insect access, virtually elirninating
that pathogen vector. For all these reasons, and the fact that construction of these latrines should itself
have no significant environmental imnpact, this component presents no environmental risks.
Finally, the health and sanitation education component focuses on modifying behavior to secure the safe use
of water or otherwise improve hygiene. Any success in this effort will lead to unambiguous environmental
improvement.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have mifluenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries are the rural village residents (IS). When seiecting villages to participate, CPO
officials consult with village leaders and feasibility studies are carried out for every scheme. Each
feasibility study must include a document from the village leaders (CON) confirming the residents agreed to
the project, understand the cost levels and benefits and agreed to pay appropriate cash and in-kind
contributions and pay tariffs at levels sufficient to meet operation and maintenance costs and repay loans.
-21-



b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders in the project include the village, township and county level workers implementing
the sanitation/health education components of the project (IS); women's groups such as the All China
Women's Federation (CON); children benefiting from the health education program (IS); and the educators
in the school system (CON).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Local government funding and beneficiary financing through water tariffs provide a framework for project
sustainability. Water plants constructed under this project are maintained as independent systems, with
tariffs set at a rate to cover the original investment and repay the loan. For most villagers, these tariffs are
usually less than 3 percent of their annual gross per capita income. Benefiting villagers are expected to pay
between 75 and 100 percent of the water supply capital costs. This payment is broken down as follows: a
total of 25 percent of the costs are recovered from an upfront contribution consisting of cash and in-kind
labor and materials contribution (typically totaling 10 to 15 percent of capital costs); another 50 percent of
the capital costs are captured through tariffs; and a further repayment of up to an additional 25 percent
may also be incurred by villagers depending on the percentage of the local government contribution passed
down through tariffs. In most instances in the first three projects, this arrangement has demonstrated high
levels of sustainability. That would be enhanced under the current project through increased villager
participation, better construction supervision and more intensive training of plant operators and managers.
Previous experience has shown that sanitation costs often exceed villagers' willingness to pay. This project
will take steps toward ensuring replicability in this area by identifying higher-income households willing to
invest in improved sanitation, and by using sanitation education to induce increases in willingness to pay.
Health education financed by the project would be integrated with existing government-led programs, and
would focus on sustainable behavioral change rather than on simply delivering messages to a target number
of people.
On the institutional side, project training would provide the project offices with a foundation for efficient,
cost-effective operation of the investment program. Efficient water supply system operation would benefit
from training and institutional support in finance and water plant operation and management. Surveys to
establish monitoring indicators and baseline conditions will provide valuable information, both for
educators targeting health and sanitation messages and for measuring the benefits of this project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Ri_k                                       Risk Minimizatin M_asure
From Outputs to Objective
Excessive extraction from or polluting     N         Feasibility studies will be required for
inputs to the various surface and                    each sub-project and will consider
groundwater sources used by the water                environmental risks and decide on any
systems, forcing either expensive raw                necessary source protection measures.
water treatment or a move to alternative
sources.
-22-



Rapid deterioration of sub-project's       N         Regular monitoring of water quality is
water quality, as shown by the                       required to be done by the water plant
re-emergence of fluoride and/or arsenic              and/or the local Anti-Epidemic station.
after its initial disappearance.                     County Project Offices should ensure
that water quality records are kept at
each water plant.
From Components to Outputs
Risk of failure to comply with the         M         Counties are required to factor in Bank
operating revenue covenants due to                   Group-estimated purchasing power
fluctuations in the exchange rate, as                parity foreign exchange rates,
repayment obligations are fixed in                   generating higher counterpart funding in
dollar terms while investments yield                 Yuan terms.
only local currency income.
Project finance risks due to delays or     M         Past experience shows that beneficiaries
inability to generate counterpart funding            have little trouble meeting their 25
at the provincial, prefectural, county,              percent upfront contribution. If local
and/or beneficiary level.                            and provincial governments do not meet
counterpart funding commitments, loans
may be redirected to other villages
and/or counties.
Inability to implement tariff structure    M         Tariff estimates are made as part of
due to intervention by local price                   each sub-project's feasibility study.
bureau, thus impairing the financial                 These are reviewed prior to an
ability and performance incentives of                investment being made.
the water company.
Poor performance of the national,          M         Consultant and national best-practice
provincial, and/or county project                    input in training programs and other
offices.                                             issues.
Failure of the health and sanitation       S         Previous experience and required
program to induce significant change in              baseline surveys will help target and
behavior.                                            further sharpen health education
programs which stress hygienic
water-related practices and water source
protection; sanitation investments
reduce pathogen loads.
-23-



Overoptirnistic projections of             M         Project offices are required to follow
beneficiaries' consumption levels,                   national guidelines on estimating
leading to system overdesign and                     consumption levels when completing
difficulties in cost recovery.                       feasibility studies which analyze the
sub-project's financial sustainability.
Government restructuring prevents full     M         Restructuring at the provincial and
staffing of provincial and county project            county levels is set to begin in 1999.
offices.                                             This will be monitored and raised as an
issue in the future if necessary.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard conditions for effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a)   the provinces will complete the baseline surveys for villages receiving new water supplies
in 2000 and submit them to the NPO no later than December 1, 1999. The NPO shall
consolidate and analyze those surveys, submitting them to the Bank no later than January
1, 2000; [Dated Covenants]
(b)    each CPO and PPO will prepare semiannual progress reports and submit them to the NPO
not later than one month following the end of the reporting period. The NPO will prepare
and submit a consolidated semiannual progress report to the Bank not later than two and
one-half months following the end of the reporting period. The first report would cover
two reporting periods, from July 1, 1999 to June 30, 2000; [Dated Covenants]
(c)   the NPO will (i) prepare, not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such later
date to be agreed with the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the project; and (ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said plan; [Dated
Covenants]
(d)    a mid-term review, to be undertaken no later than June 1, 2002, will review progress in
meeting project objectives, as reflected by the monitoring indicators. The review wili
identify any changes needed to meet those project objectives, including but not limited to
allocation of unallocated credit funds and commitment of additional counterpart funds;
[Dated Covenants]
-24-



(e)   the NPO will appraise, using agreed criteria, all water supply investments with an
estimated total investment above Y 3.0 million for the quality of their engineering and
fnancial preparation and their overall feasibility. Procurement of project related works
will not commence prior to successful NPO appraisal [Implementation Covenants];
(f)    a consolidated project AWP for the following year will be prepared and submitted to the
Bank for review and approval no later than November 30 of each year; [Dated Covenants]
(g)   the national consolidated account of project expenditures prepared by the NPO will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Additionally, the following annual audits should be carried out and maintained at the
Provincial Finance Bureau for mission review: (i) provincial consolidated accounts
prepared by the PPO; (ii) SOEs and Special Account maintained by MOF and the
Provincial Finance Bureau; and (iii) county accounts of project expenditures carried out by
the CPOs. To ensure better review of large-scale water supply systems, each water plant
facility with total investment greater than Y 5 million will be audited at the end of its first
full fiscal year of operation in accordance with auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, such audit to be submitted to the Bank for
review no later than 6 months after the end of the audited fiscal year. [Financial
Covenants]
(h)    each province will carry out or cause to be carried out the resettlement of persons affected
by the project according to the agreed Resettlement Policy Framework and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank [Implementation Covenants];
(i)   the PPOs will appraise, using agreed criteria, all water supply investments with an
estimated total investment above Y 0.5 million and not exceeding Y 3.0 million for the
quality of their engineering and financial preparation and their overall feasibility. Within
the mandatory review limits, procurement of project related works will not commence prior
to successful PPO appraisal [Implementation Covenants];
(j)    provincial AWPs for the following year will be prepared and submitted to the NPO for
review and approval no later than October 15 of each year; [Dated Covenants]
(k)   for all water systems with total investment above Y 0.5 million, the county quality
assurance office will be retained to verify that construction practices and standards have
met design specifications [Implementation Covenants]; and
(1)    commencing not later than the second full fiscal year of operations of such. investment,
water charges will be established and collected annually at a level sufficient to cover
operations and maintenance costs, administrative costs, taxes, and the greater of (i) interest
charges and depreciation, or (ii) debt service requirements (interest plus principle
repayment). [Operating Revenue Covenant]
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
-25-



O 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Note: Re: l.a) and 2. above. Engineering designs for the first year will be completed by May 1999, with
civil works bid documents being completed during the remainder of 1999 to ensure construction starts in
early 2000, which is the first year of construction.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
George N, Plant                  Keshav Varma                      Yukon Huang
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-26-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Human development: poverty  Increased incomes and     Annual figures published by   Government's commitment is
reduction.                improved health conditions   the State Statistical Bureau,   sustained.
nationally.                Ministry of Public Health,
Provincial Health Bureau, and
Provincial Governments.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Reduce the time and cost for  Number of villagers served by Figures provided by the  Increased convenience from
people in poor rural areas to  project-supplied water  National Project Office,  sub-project systems saves
obtain clean, safe water  meeting national rural water  Provincial Project Office, and labor which is diverted to
supply, while improving   quality standards.         County Project Offices.     other more productive
related sanitation and health                         Baseline survey and Progress  activities.
behaviours through education Namber of sanitary latrines   reports.
and pilot investments.     constructed in villages in the                        Government efforts to control
project counties in addition to                       pollution and diseases are
those constructed under the                           sustained.
project, and the precentage
point improvement in key
water-related health
behaviours.
[Note: No specific indicators
are given for time and cost
savings because (a) the
exercise of precisely
quantifying these savings is
expensive and (b) this exercise
would provide little additional
information additional to that
from financial performance.
The financial covenant
performance, through
demonstrated willingness to
pay, reflects villagers' own
perception of time and cost
savings. Time and
cost-related questions are
included in the baseline
survey.]
Output from each          Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
-27-



Safe, conveniently-located  Number of people newly      Progress reports from National Technical and environmental
water to 3.1 million people in  served with safe water.  and Provincial Project Offices. risks are minimized. Water
27 counties.                                                                        sources show no sign of
deterioration.
Sustainable investments in    Percentage of water systems   Operational reports from the  Unforeseen costs do not arise
water systems.              meeting the tariff covenant by National and Provincial  over time from other sources.
the second full fiscal year of  Project Offices.        Proper financial management
operation.                                              of systems.
Increased adoption of safe    Improvements in the       Baseline surveys. Progress    Project is replicated across
water-related health, hygiene, percentage of people     reports from National and   households. Eventually, more
and sanitation practices.   practicing key water-related   Provincial Project Offices.    villagers are willing and able
behaviors. Number of                                   to pay to install safe latrines in
villagers using their own                               their own households.
resources to construct                                  Successful diffusion of
additional sanitary latrines.                           improved behavioral practices
across individuals and
villages.
Project Components /        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                              Outputs)
Water supply, including piped US$74.2 million to 3.1    Project office progress reports, Local and provincial
(household connections and   million people in 27 counties  disbursement reports, required governments meet counterpart
community standpipes) and   in 4 provinces.             Annual Work Plans including funding commitments;
non-piped (handpumps and                                design and financial feasibility beneficiaries are able to pay
rain catchments) systems                                studies, and Bank supervision 25 percent upfront
missions.                   contribution. Local price
bureaus and other agencies
cooperate to establish
appropriate tariff levels to
ensure financial sustainability
of new water systems.
Sanitation and health       US$7.3 million              Project office progress reports Targeted health education
education.                                              and Bank supervision        programs stress hygienic
missions.                   water-related practices and
water source protection;
sanitation investments reduce
pathogen loads. Baseline
surveys target appropriate
areas of health behavior.
Increased education induces
behavioral change.
-28-



Project management         US$4.9 million              Project office progress reports, Project offices are fully staffed
disbursement reports, and  and funded. Training
Bank supervision missions.   programs and consultant input
are utilized to address specific
problems such as procurement
and design work.
-29-



Annex 2: Project Description
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$74.2 million
The Water SupPly Component
The water supply component will give villagers in all 27 counties the opportunity to invest in improved
water supplies. No constraints are set on the type of system chosen, which can range from the
household-specific solutions of rainwater collectors or shallow or deep-well hand pumps, to single- or
multivillage community piped systems. Households can choose whether to invest in individual household
connections or to rely on community standposts.
Piped Water Supply Systems. Piped water supply systems will serve over 99 percent of the
approximately 3.1 million project beneficiaries. According to the government's preliminary estimates, a
total of 479 water facilities will be constructed, of which 454 are planned to provide direct household
connections. The continuing shift from hand pumps to piped systems with household connections that has
been occurring since the first rural water supply project reflects both consumer demand for the convenience
and status afforded by individual household water taps and their willingness to pay up front the additional
costs. Spring water sources are the most cost-effective because the water is usually of good quality and no
treatment, apart from disinfection, is necessary. Often, spring systems can be gravity-fed, removing the
need for storage tanks and pumps. Surface water systems are usually the most costly because water
treatment is required, as is pumping to storage tanks to maintain system pressure. The majority of the
proposed systems (70.6 percent) are medium-scale (Y 0.5 million to Y 3 million). Of the remainder, 27.4
percent of the systems are small-scale (less than Y 0.5 million investment), while only 2.1 percent are
large-scale (over Y 3 million). In the first-year program, 43 piped systems are proposed for construction,
after which 357,400 rural residents would have access to safe drinking water.
Non-piped Water Supply Systems. The proposed project also contains a limited number of alternative
low-cost water supply technologies (point sources) to serve communities where population is sparse and/or
ground and surface water is scarce. According to the government's preliminary estimates, the proposed
project would construct 120 household rainwater collectors and 173 deep-well hand pumps. These systems
would collectively serve 30,213 rural residents, or slightly less than one percent of the total beneficiaries.
Rainwater collectors are planned for the mountainous regions of Guizhou Province, where rainfall is
plentiful, but access to surface water is difficult. Deep-well hand pumps are planned for construction in
Anhui and Hainan Provinces. Fujian Province does not plan to construct any non-piped systems. In the
first-year program, 16 deep-well hand pumps will be constructed, serving 1,700 people.
Planning and Design Criteria. The piped water supply systems proposed in the project have been selected
as the least-cost solutions. The criteria used in the design of the piped systems are based on the China
Rural Water Supply Engineering, Planning, and Design Manual prepared by the Executive Office of the
National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee. Per capita domestic water consumption is assumed to
range between 40 to 80 liters per day depending on the sufficiency of the water sources and the climatic
conditions. For animals and other uses, a consumption allowance of 10 liters per day is used. For
non-piped systems 30 to 40 liters per capita per day are considered adequate design demands. A design
period of 15 years is selected (10 for some of the smallest plants) and the annual population growth is taken
-30-



as 1.2 percent. A factor of 1.5 is used for maximum day demand and the peak hour demand factor applied
varies from 2.5 to 4.0. The minimum system design pressure in the pipe network must be not less than 5
meters. Non-piped water supply systems use the design criteria specified in the China Rural Water Supply
Engineering, Planning, and Design Manual.
Training. Training sessions will be conducted by the CPOs for water plant managers, operators, and
accountants. Manuals for this training have already been prepared by the NPO, and will be disseminated
through the CPOs.
Project Component 2 - US$7.3 million
The Sanitation and Health Education Component
This component seeks to help maximize the opportunities for reducing the incidence of waterborne disease
in three ways: (a) make available information on improved latrine designs, their investment costs and
economic and health benefits by sponsoring village information sessions about water supply, improved
latrines, and related hygiene practices; (b) finance improved latrine facilities on a demonstration basis in
project village schools and in one to three households in each project village; and (c) identify specific types
of behavioral change that will improve health conditions, finance the preparation of health education
materials and finance support to local health networks to expand and upgrade existing health education
information programs in the project areas, increase local media coverage of health issues, make health
educational materials accessible to more rural people, and train additional local health experts.
The component will comprise of the following:
Training. The NPO and CPOs will provide health education training to local leaders, including primary
school teachers, village doctors, and Women's Federation representatives.
Health Education. The NPO will develop, and provincial and county project offices and local leaders will
implement, an education information program that will emphasize the importance of behavioral change and
the link between hygienic practice and improved health primarily to housewives, young women and school
children. Development of education materials will be done with the assistance of agencies selected through
a competitive process. The information program will be implemented in four phases: Phase I-awareness
of project objectives; Phase 11-awareness of environmental protection and sanitation promotion; Phase
III-water utilization; and Phase IV-hygienic behavior. Phases I and II of the health information program
would be implemented in project villages prior to the construction of water supply schemes in each village,
and Phases III and IV during and after the construction period.
Construction of Three Household Composting Latrines. For those villagers willing and able to
construct improved household latrines at their own expense, CPOs and county/municipal sanitary and
epidemic prevention stations will provide technical assistance. Where villagers are able to contribute at
least half the cost of an improved latrine in labor and materials, but not the full capital cost, the project will
make a limited amount of funding available to each village to assist in purchasing inputs, for no more than
three household latrines per village. The latter expenses will be covered either by beneficiaries, Bank
financing or government grants. Only those households that are able to pay part of the cost of the latrine
will be supported under this component, to avoid providing models that cannot be followed without
subsidies.
Construction of Three to Five Village School Composting Latrines. In each project county, the CPO
-31-



will select three to five villages to receive public school composting latrines.
Schedule. The NPO will prepare materials for the first two phases of the health education component on
the basis of existing information, in order to begin training-of-trainers for the first-year program no later
than January 1, 1999. The health education information program for Phases I and II will be carried out in
all first-year villages by the beginning of the construction season in April 2000. The NPO will use the
findings of the baseline surveys to develop targeted, specific health education messages, and would prepare
materials and begin to implement training for Phases III and IV of the health education information
program by September 2000.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.9 million
The Proiect Mana2ement Component
The project management component comprises (a) the establishment and maintenance of the county,
province and national project offices; (b) technical assistance and training for project office personnel; (c)
financing of project management and supervision activities; and (d) development and implementation of
baseline surveys.
Establishment and Maintenance of Project Offices. The existing NPO, four PPOs, and 27 CPOs will
operate during the implementation period of the project to carry out day-to-day project activities. The
following physical assets will be required to support this work:
(a)    Office Space. At the provincial and county levels, if new facilities are required, space will
be rented, or provided free of charge if the project will be operating out of a government
building; no dormitories will be funded under this project.
(b)    Warehouses. At the county level, warehouses will be rented, or, if suitable facilities are
not available, construction of adequate warehouses will be funded through the project.
Warehouses will be financed by counterpart funds.
(c)    Vehicles and Office Equipment. These items will be procured through the project if such
equipment is not already available.
(d)    Operating Expenses. These include communication, transportation and stationary costs
to be funded by the project.
Technical Assistance and Training for Project Management Office Staff. The national, provincial and
county project offices with a full complement of staff will employ approximately 500 persons to implement
this project. To maximize their participation, training and technical assistance will be provided in the
following areas:
(a)    Procurement. Annual assistance by qualified procurement personnel will be provided to
the NPO to improve preparation of ICB bidding documents. The CPOs and PPOs will
receive ongoing procurement training from the NPO, particularly on procuring civil works
contracts and on preparation of ICB bidding documents. There are approximately 53
procurement staff who will require this training.
-32-



(b)    Project Management. Provincial and county project office directors and deputies will be
trained by the NPO in human resource management, project scheduling, monitoring,
evaluation, reporting, supervision, budgeting, and funds management. PPOs will have
additional follow-up training sessions for the CPOs. Approximately 72 management staff
will participate in these sessions.
(c)    Finance and Accounting. The NPO will train all PPO and CPO financial project staff on
the accounting system used to track project expenditures, maintenance of supporting
documentation, preparation of financial reports, and processing of disbursement and
Special Account reimbursement requests. PPOs and CPOs will also be trained in financial
management aspects of water utilities and financial analysis of water supply system
options. There are approximately 135 financial staff requiring this training. It is also
desirable that county and provincial auditors attend this meeting to familiarize themselves.
(d)    Water Plant Engineering and Operations. Approximately 95 project office engineering
staff will require training in water plant site selection, hydrogeological surveying,
construction management, water plant operations management and water quality
monitoring. The NPO will design all training programs and carry out initial training, with
follow-up training provided by the PPOs. Technical assistance from county and provincial
design institutes to review and prepare some water facility engineering designs, as well as
from construction supervision bureaus to supervise construction works will be required.
(e)    Sanitation and Health Education. Approximately 89 personnel will require training in
the design of health education programs, composting latrine designs, costs and benefits,
and latrine construction supervision. The NPO will conduct the initial training, with
follow-up training to be provided by the PPOs.
The costs include technical assistance and training-related organizational and administration costs incurred
at the national, provincial and county levels.
-33-



Project Management and Supervision. Nearly 500 piped and 300 nonpiped water facilities will be
constructed, and the project beneficiaries will receive training to improve their health and hygiene and
sanitation practices. To oversee the successful implementation of these investments, the national,
provincial and county project offices will need to spend the majority of their resources on design review,
supervision of project implementation, and project monitoring, evaluation and reporting. These activities
are summarized as follows:
(a)    Design Review. To facilitate PPO assessment of CPO engineering and financial
capabilities, each PPO is expected to conduct site review of each of the first three water
supply system designs in each county, or the full county first-year work program,
whichever is greater. In each subsequent year, the PPO will conduct site review of no
fewer than 20 water supply systems per year, including all systems with estimated total
costs above Y 500,000 and at least two systems below the mandatory review limit size.
The reviews will include all engineering factors, as well as the financial analysis and
counterpart funding plans. All mandatory reviews are expected to be carried out in the
field. The NPO will conduct mandatory review of all systems with estimated total
investment costs above Y 3 million and not fewer than 8 of the largest provincial systems
in any given year, such review to occur in association with site visits and to be conducted
by teams of financial analysts and engineers. Design review, travel and subsistence costs
will be funded by the project.
(b)    Supervision. This is comprised of on-site inspection of water plant construction and
operation, latrine construction and health education training programs. PPOs should plan
to visit all project villages at least once every year to review the status of project
implementation, and CPOs will need to make frequent village visits depending on each
village's stage of development. Where water plant size and complexity is beyond the
scope of the CPO's experience, provincial construction supervisors should be engaged to
perform that function. Supervision travel and subsistence costs will be funded by the
project.
(c)    Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting. These activities include conducting baseline
surveys, monitoring performance indicators, and preparing quarterly performance reports
and biannual project financial statements. Related travel and subsistence costs will be
funded by the project.
(d)    Development and Implementation of Baseline Surveys. The NPO will oversee, and
CPOs will conduct, baseline surveys in project villages, to provide a basis for future
monitoring and evaluation. The baseline survey will cover 15 percent of the villages in
each of the 27 project counties over the course of three years; in each village, a primnary
school (Grade 4) class and 10 housewives between the ages of 20 and 45 will be surveyed.
The survey will cover basic information on population, gross income level and sources,
coverage of different water systems and latrine types, time and distance traveled to collect
water, the incidence of water-related diseases, health education activities and coverage of
villagers and school children, and percentage of rural residents washing their hands before
meals and after using the toilet, and drinking boiled water. A copy of the format of the
survey is included in the Project Implementation Plan. The field work for the baseline
survey will be carried out by CPO staff, beginning no later than October 1, 1999. The
final report for the baseline survey will be prepared by the NPO and submitted to the Bank
for review by January 1, 2000. Resurveys will be conducted after the fourth year of the
-34-



project, or more frequently as needed.
Financing Arrangements for Project Management Costs. The project office budgets will include the
costs of leasing office and storage space (storage space may be constructed at the county level if suitable
space is not available for rent), supervision expenses, office staff training expenses, transportation to
project sites, and contracting for construction supervision or other outside services; office staff salaries are
not included in the budgets. The IBRD loan / IDA credit will be used to fund a portion of the vehicles and
office equipment, and technical assistance and training costs. Transportation, travel expenses, and office
operating expenses will be funded by county governrments. The NPO, PPO and CPO costs will be borne by
county-level counterpart funding annually in amounts proportional to each county's project investment
costs. It is the responsibility of the county government to repay any credit proceeds used to finance project
office assets. Some counties pass on all or part of these costs to beneficiaries through the local water
tariffs.
-35-



LIST OF PROVINCES AND COUNTIES
Anhui Province                                      Guizhou Province
1. Qianshan County                                         15. Jinsha County
2. Guichi County                                           16. Kaiyang County
3. Yingshang County                                        17. Nayong County
4. Linquan County                                          18. Xiuwen County
5. Qingyang County                                         19. Zheng'an County
6. Wuhe County                                             20. Qianxi County
7. Wuwei County                                            21. Bijie County
8. Lujiang County                                          22. Xifeng County
23. Weining County
Hainan Province
Fuiian Province
9. Ding'an County
10. Tunchang County                                        24. Changting County
11. Changjiang County                                      25. Pingtan County
12. Lingao County                                          26. Liancheng County
13. Ledong Li Nationality Autonomous County                27. Pinghe County
14. Lingshui Li Nationality Autonomous County
-36-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Water Supply                                               38.5         22.4          60.9
Health, Education and Sanitation                            5.1           1.0          6.1
Project Management                                          3.9           0.2          4.1
Total Baseline Cost                                        47.5         23.6          71.1
Physical Contingencies                                     7.1          3.5          10.6
Price Contingencies                                        2.8           1.9          4.7
Total Project Costs               57.4         29.0          86.4
Interest during construction                  5.4          5.4
Front-end fee                     0.2           0.2
Total Financing Required               57.4          34.6         92.0
Goods                                                          10.2         28.9          39.1
Works                                                          37.6          0.0          37.6
Services                                                        0.5          0.0           0.5
Training                                                        3.5          0.1           3.6
Other                                                           5.6          0.0           5.6
Total Project Costs        57.4         29.0          86.4
Interest during construction                   5.4          5.4
Front-end fee                      0.2           0.2
Total Financing Required        57.4          34.6         92.0
Other includes: Land Acquisition under the Water Supply component ($3.6 mil.) and Project Management
and Supervision under the Project Management component ($2.0 mil.).
Interest During Construction is based on: (i) onlending rates for projected disbursements of loan proceeds;
(ii) payment of commitment charges; and (iii) service charges for projected disbursements of credit
proceeds.
-37-



Annex 4
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Water Supply
1.    The project will benefit an estimated 3.1 million rural people in 27 poor counties. Ideally,
participating villages would be chosen by evaluating NPV generated by water investments, including public
health, social welfare, or other externalities, and choosing that set of investments that maximized the
surplus value across all villages. However, generating such information over the nearly 500 piped water
and 300 non-piped systems proposed would be excessively costly, if even possible to an acceptable level of
uncertainty. As an alternative, villages are required to pass a test of revealed demand-a willingness to
supply capital and levy water tariffs that cover the full operating costs of and loans incurred by the system.
Thus, the water investments are justified in terms of private demand. A very wide array of villages would
meet such a test, including those that are relatively well off, yet still unserved by safe water. In practice,
counties select villages based on an initial assessment of the cost of supplying water and whether the likely
village demand would meet those costs. If they feel a particular village might be eligible to participate, they
offer the opportunity and the village makes its own assessment of services, costs, and willingness to pay.
When a village elects to participate, a feasibility study is done that more carefully fixes service levels and
costs, and villagers have a second opportunity to opt out of, or attempt to modify the terms of,
participation. The village selection technique biases selection toward better-off villages in the county.
However, given that the highest income villages in the project counties already have piped water systems
(on average, 18 percent of the villages already have such service), and that the credit will provide an
additional 21 percent of villages with safe water, mainly through piped systems, the benefiting villages
should include primarily villages grouped close to the county mean income level.
2.     The actual NPV of the investment will vary from system to system, depending on actual villager
WTP, public health and social welfare externalities, and system economic costs. In none of the villages
visited was water marketed by private vendors, nor was such marketing reported for other villages. This
comparator for direct valuation of water is therefore unavailable. In the absence of such a market, the use
of a financial covenant for the water supply investment does set a base economic rate of return (ERR). The
covenant requires that tariffs cover all operations and maintenance costs and the greater of depreciation or
debt service. Chinese regulations require a depreciation rate of 3.5 percent. The onlending rate to be
passed down by the Ministry of Finance is expected to be approximately 3 percent, with a 17-year
maturity, so debt service will exceed depreciation for those years. Given that the standard conversion
factor for China is 1.0, major equipment and materials inputs are acquired through ICB, and no major
domestic input has an economic price above its financial price, a simple calculation shows that if the
covenant is met, the lower-bound ERR will be at least 3 percent. The actual rate will be higher in all cases
as the calculation does not incorporate consumer surplus, nor does it reflect the fact that the actual tariff
will be set on a cost structure that includes the 17 percent VAT and other taxes and duties, as well as
incorporating a return to government capital contributions in many counties. The government choice to
direct scarce international resources to these villages gives evidence of significant positive public health or
social welfare externalities additional to the private value of increased water supply.
3.     The covenanted tariffs yield positive lower-bound ERRs, but do not match the established discount
rate of 12 percent for Bank Group projects in China. The relative contribution of consumer surplus
therefore becomes a key issue for economic evaluation. The demand curve for the improved supply
-38-



depends very much on the original supply, which typically remains available. In almost all cases, some
substitution of sources is possible. For the more common bacterial and viral contamination, boiling for
sufficiently long periods can negate the problem and the trade-off between old supply and new becomes one
of the cost of fuel and tirne. These issues are stressed here because in some very low-income villages under
RWSS, demand for improved water has not met expectations, with consequent reductions in economic
returns. Those cases are characterized by convenient, if unsafe, existing supply. There, villagers have
maintained or even increased overall consumption of water, but used the high-quality source only for
drinking and cooking. In those cases, at water tariffs above Y 1.5/m3, the new source may supply only 10
to 15 liters/capita/day (lcd) of a total consumption exceeding 60 lcd.
4.     The above discussion referred to substitution based on quality. A second source of difference is
water source location. Here, circumstances vary greatly across project counties. In some counties in
Hainan, Fujian, and Guizhou, for example, surface or shallow well-water sources tend to be convenient for
all households, with no more than a five-minute walk to a source in all seasons of the year. There, the
problems are mainly those of water quality. In other project counties, however, access to raw water, even
with existing wells, can be highly seasonal. During the rainy season, water, often of good quality, will be
conveniently located. But during the dry season, and particularly in drought years, 40 minute or longer
round trips for water are not uncommon. In these locations, then, the demand for improved water varies
with the season. Demand for improved supplies will be highly inelastic during the dry season, but very
elastic during the rainy season. Economic returns to new supply likewise vary across seasons.
5.     Because convenience-the time required to obtain water from a particular source -is a major
determinant of demand for improved supply, and because the impact on private demand is much more
readily analyzed than are other contributors to that demand, this analysis will focus on the time variable.
The methodology for calculating the cost of time is well developed and that used here is based on the
discussion in " The Value of Time In Economic Evaluation of Transport Projects: Lessons from Recent
Research" (World Bank, Infrastructure Notes, OT-5, 1997). In this formulation, household income is used
to calculate the value of time used in pursuits that do not yield monetary income. For illustrative purposes,
three project counties are used to show the implications of income levels for the cost of water collected
from unimproved sources (Table 1). The three serve as representatives of counties whose average annual
net rural per capita income fall in the lower, middle, and upper ranges of the 27 project counties (see Table
2). The table has been constructed assuming very conservative values whenever a choice needed to be
made. For water gathering time, only 7.5 minutes per round trip is assumed for surface sources. With
household wells, that is reduced to 4 minutes per round trip. Note that collection time from an improved
yard tap will not differ much from a household well, the difference coming in the time needed to lift out a
pail of water from a well, or pump out the same volume using a hand pump. One important factor not
reflected in the table is the effort connected with the time spent. Clearly, the effort of filling a pail by
turning a spigot is much less than lifting water from a well, even if the time needed for both is
approximately the same. Any adjustment to the cost for the effort of gathering water from the unimproved
source would serve to increase that cost.
-39-



Table 1: Cost of Water
Guizhou       Anhui           Fujian
Nayong         Qianshan       Pinghe
County         County         County
Annual per capita income (Y)                 950            1,358          2,502
Average household size                       4.3            4.1            4.2
Laborers per household                       2.2            2.2            1.8
Annual household income (Y)                  4,094          5,568          10,508
Assumed hours of work per year               7,260          7,260          5,940
Average income per hour (Y)                  0.56           0.77           1.77
Daily water gathering time in hours,         0.5            0.5            0.5
4 trips/40 liters each (surface source)
Daily water gathering time in hours,         0.2            0.2            0.2
4 trips/40 liters each (household well)
Current labor cost/m3 (surface)              1.75           2.40           5.53
Current labor cost/m3 (household well)       0.70           0.96           2.21
Approximate cost/m3 of project safe water    1.5            0.9            1.5
Note: Water is typically collected using two 20-liter pails on a shoulder pole, so each trip collects 40 liters.
Table 2: Distribution of Project Counties' Annual Net Rural Per Capita Income
Average Annual Net Rural Per Capita Income            Number of Counties
Y  950- 1,200                                8
Y 1,201 - 1,400                              7
Y 1,401 - 1,800
Over Y 1,800
6.    The conclusion from the table is straightforward: a family currently served by a household well
supplying water that will be safe after boiling will have little financial incentive to use improved water
supplies if time is the only factor. Either source is likely to be boiled, given the Chinese preference for
-40-



taking drinking water in the form of tea. Only for counties in the higher income range does usage of piped
supply provide cost savings. However, the cost of collecting water quickly exceeds the tariff for piped
supply once the family must rely on sources outside their own compound. Even with a round trip of 7.5
minutes, families at the average income of the lowest income county are indifferent between purchased and
collected supply. For counties in the middle and higher income ranges, improved supply becomes a very
attractive alternative to gathering water outside of the household vompound. Where raw water sources
cannot be easily treated to yield drinking water, families will readily carry drinking water over 20-minute
round trips, indicating a value for that water of at least Y 2.0/m3, even for the poorer families.
7.     The analysis accords well with observed village participation in earlier projects. No database has
been assembled for those projects that can be used to characterize villages by their density of reliable
household wells. However, Bank supervision teams have now visited well over one hundred villages either
participating in or proposed for participation in the Bank-financed rural water projects. In no supervision
case has a village with reliable household wells chosen to participate. Rather, participating villages
regularly or seasonally face a substantial time burden for water gathering, or, more rarely, have current
supply with arsenic or fluoride levels so high as to damage health. The same pattern of participation is
expected in this project and consistently generates rates of return well above the 3 percent financial floor.
8.     The relative contribution of consumer surplus to the total private value of improved supply will
determine the private ERR and NPV. The information in the above table also helps address this question.
First, recall that when villagers choose whether to participate in the project, they know the approximate
tariff levels. Villagers choosing to participate thus face costs for at least part of their supply that are as
great as the projected tariff. These costs often include recapture of govermnent capital contributions, plus
taxes and other fees on inputs, hence yield ERRs above the 3 percent covenant level. However, assuming
the worst case, that the tariff represents only a 3 percent lower bound for the ERR and that no real income
increases are expected over the project life, the consumer surplus would have to increase total value by 38
percent over that captured in the tariff for the project to enjoy a positive NPV for the private demand (any
positive externalities to, say, public health, would further increase NPV). Any increase in real incomes
over the project life would shift the demand curve (given the positive income elasticity of water demand
shown in other China projects) to the right and further increase the consumer surplus. Based on the water
collection time cost in the above table, in the better off among the poor counties (examples shown for cases
in Anhui and Fujian), for villages without reliable household supply, water costs are cut by more than half
and consumer surplus will therefore easily exceed the 3 8 percent level. The Guizhou case is less clear.
Under the most conservative assumption about the demand curve, and assuming that villagers attribute
value only to time savings, the additional consumer surplus would increase total benefits only 17 percent,
yielding an ERR of about 8 percent. Although the project clearly faces the risk that villages with positive
ERRs but negative NPVs will elect to participate, this risk arises only with the poorest participating
villages when they already enjoy supply within an average 7.5 minute roundtrip from the household.
Supervision experience suggests that the poorest villages typically suffer the longest, not the shortest,
distance from reliable supply, hence the risk is deemed manageable. For the higher-income poor counties,
even a 7.5-minute round trip justifies project participation.
9.     Sensitivity Analysis. Given that nearly 500 piped systems will be constructed under the project, a
wide array of actual ERRs is anticipated. The economic test is to realize a positive NPV, not maximize
that NPV over the project. As the time value chart shows, maximizing private NPV would generally
involve selecting higher-income villages in preference to lQwer-income as project beneficiaries. This
selection bias against serving the poor occurs in any project in which time value plays a crucial role in
determining returns. Indeed, to overcome this problem in transport projects, the "Infrastructure Note" cited
above recommends using average national time values, rather than location-specific values, to avoid biasing
-41-



road investments toward wealthier areas. That works as a political selection mechanism, but is not
defensible in terms of ERR or NPV calculations. In this project, the tariff provides a self-selection
mechanism that guards against projects with negative NPVs. As the time value calculations show,
economic returns from projects meeting the tariff covenant have a very high probability of yielding a
positive NPV. Indeed, where existing water sources are distant or untreatable to safe standards, the ERR
will be well above 12 percent and the NP-Y well above zero.
10.   The argument in the foregoing paragraph relies on accurate forecasting of demand at each village,
so that the consumers use, and pay for, sufficient water to actually cover the enumerated costs. Experience
in the previous projects makes it clear that designers usually correctly estimate use rates. However, some
counties have shown a tendency to design for and construct excess supply, on the theory that economic
growth, hence incomes and commercial and industrial demand, will proceed at a rapid pace. This issue
therefore was the subject of considerable scrutiny during the appraisal process. The appraisal mission
deemed the best proxy for system demand to be demand for similar systems in adjoining areas within a
county. Where such evidence could not be found, or comparable systems had markedly lower tariffs,
CPOs have been asked to undertake additional analysis to justify their choices.
11.   A second requirement if the willingness to pay the financial tariff is to capture economic value is
that the villagers perceive that they will be required to repay the loan on schedule. If, instead, they believe
that the loan contract is unenforceable, the project would face a familiar moral hazard through villagers
signaling a willingness to pay for a higher level service than they are actually willing to fully pay for. The
first rural water supply project has not experienced this problem, while the second is just entering the
repayment period and thus provides scant evidence. That said, the concern is not simply hypothetical,
given the widespread publicity in China about SOE failure to repay loans and the lack of effective
sanctions on them.
Sanitation and Health Education
12.    The value of safe water supplies can be negated by a failure to follow good health and sanitation
practices. For example, food preparers who have not washed their hands can easily contaminate the water
after it leaves the tap. Unfortunately, while affordable physical investments can solve many of the water
quality problems, the behavioral change needed for good health and sanitation practices is much harder to
induce. For decades, the Chinese NPHCC has run health education and action campaigns targeting a broad
array of rural health problems. They achieved early successes that included reduction of schistosomiasis
and insect-borne diseases, both cases where disease vectors were easy for rural people to identify. NPHCC
has also worked on a number of important sanitation interventions, including boiling water; latrine use,
particularly composting latrines that promise high rates of pathogen destruction; and hand washing. They
report success in spreading knowledge of good practice, and Bank preparation and supervision missions
have rarely met an adult who hadn't heard of the importance of boiling water. However, in many poor
villages those same adults report frequent consumption of unboiled water, especially in the summer and by
young children.
13.    Latrine use rates are high, at over 90 percent, reflecting an ancient concern with capturing fecal
material to fertilize crops. A total of 57 percent of rural households have composting latrines; their
coverage has grown rapidly in recent years. Not surprisingly, Chinese surveys have consistently shown a
high correlation between handling untreated fecal material and intestinal and other illness. For the last
three decades, government has worked to identify treatment methods that substantially reduce pathogen
transmission. A number of latrine designs, when properly used, have been shown to massively reduce the
number of pathogens. However, compared to the simple traditional designs, such latrines require
-42-



purchased inputs and unfamiliar construction techniques. Cost, which can easily amount to a year's per
capita income in poor villages, and the lack of a proven health benefit have slowed adoption.
14.    Unlike water supply under the RWSS project, the WTP for improved sanitation under RWSS has
been well below the private cost of latrine construction. Even in villages with high subsidies for the
construction of private composting latrines, uptake rates have been low. This correlates with national and
international experience with improved sanitation-everywhere the private demand for sanitation
substantially lags that for improved water supply. Were this project to seek rapid advance in installing
improved latrines, project design would need to be bimodal, in the sense of working with relatively wealthy
counties on the sanitation issue, for that is where sanitation WTP will be highest. However, experience
under RWSS suggests that such an approach would over stretch the administrative capacity of provincial
project offices and the disconnect between the water and sanitation issues would hinder overall
implementation. Instead, the project will have lower expectations of sanitation than of water supply,
proceeding in a cautious and experimental manner toward expanded use.
15.   In the context of preparing this project, a viable benefit estimation procedure for the sanitation and
health education components has not been identified. The methodology is certainly known, but involves
sophisticated epidemiological work for which the needed data are not at hand and for which the cost cannot
be justified. In the absence of such a test, the project seeks to lower the cost of improved sanitation through
the provision of technical assistance in design and to increase private demand through demonstrating the
technology to villagers. Even in the absence of an adequate rationale for subsidizing private sanitation
facilities, such a rationale does exist for improved school latrines. School health education courses, which
have demonstrated a substantial positive impact on health, lose effectiveness if taught in an environment
where students cannot practice the skills they are being taught. Quite apart from the project concerns,
inadequate sanitary facilities are also known to discourage school attendance by girls of some age groups
or ethnicity.
16.    The project will begin to overcome, however modestly, the gap in NPHCC's knowledge of the
impact of their work. The baseline studies fnanced by the project will, for the first time, permit direct and
systematic estimation of project impacts. The studies provide the basis for adapting program content to
results over and past the life of this project.
Typical Costs
17.    Water supply costs vary depending on the available sources of raw water, their location relative to
the served village(s), and treatment levels needed to assure safe supply. Those costs are village-specific.
But costs also vary with the choice of delivery level (standpipes, household connections, continuous or
intermittent supply). Those costs are household-specific. Where villages elect to build systems allowing
household connections, households have the option of seeking household connections or not. Those that
elect such connections in the first year of project construction will have part of those costs eligible for
financing under the loan/credit. Households electing to connect in later years will bear the full direct cost
of such connections.
18.    The feasibility studies on first-year proposed systems yielded estimated operations costs and
projected tariffs. The system cost estimates for the first-year construction program are based on accurate
bills of quantity. The inputs are all locally available, hence prices are reliably known. Furthermore, the -
projections can be validated against costs experienced in the ongoing NRWS project. Based on the
-43-



feasibility studies, the project shows the following range of costs per cubic meter of delivered water:
Table 3. Distribution of Expected Tariffs by Province
Province                   Piped supply
(Y/m3)
Anhui                       0.65-1.30
Fujian                      0.52-1.80
Guizhou                      1.50-2.80
Hainan                      0.70-1.22
19.   These figures are comparable to those under NRWS. Urban residents typically pay much less for
a more reliable water supply, with rates ranging from about Y 0.4/m3 to Y 0.8/m3. Lower urban prices
have two main causes. First, their water pricing is based on the depreciated, historical value of capital and
many of the systems are at least a decade old. Second, urban governments have traditionally subsidized
many of the investment costs, which were then not used in the price basis for the system.
Poverty Analysis
20.   The beneficiaries under the project are located within some of China's poorest communities.
Accordingly, offering low-cost water supply options and a means of financing them through the water
tariffs are key to the affordability of these systems. Beyond this, communities selected for inclusion in the
project must demonstrate the willingness and ability to pay for safe and convenient water supplies by
collecting beneficiary investrnent contributions prior to commencement of construction. In the selection of
project counties, local per capita income information was analyzed. The anticipated water tariffs were then
compared against the average income figures, which range from Y 950 to Y 2,787 per capita per year. In
the highest case, annualized water fees are expected to represent 5.7 percent of beneficiary income, and in
most cases less than 3 percent. Asset holdings are unknown and the burden of making the capital
contribution difficult to analyze. Here, though, the willingness to contribute is immediately tested and
found to be high. In the ongoing NRWS project, beneficiaries have continually shown a willingness to pay
the cost of their water supply.
-44-



21.    Preliminary estimates suggest the following levels of tariff as a percentage of villager income:
Table 4. Water Costs as a Percentage of Villager Income, Distribution Range by Province
Province                                Estimated percentage of villager income needed
to purchase water at estimated use levels of the new system
(lowest and highest county)
Anhui                                                    1.2 - 2.3
Fujian                                                   0.5 - 1.8
Guizhou                                                  2.1 - 5.7
Hainan                                                   1.3 - 2.5
22.    A critical affordability issue is not average affordability, but rather affordability by the poorer
members of the village population. The poorest villagers will have insufficient cash income to contribute
capital during the construction phase or pay tariffs during implementation. Some substitution of labor and
materials for capital is possible, but studies show that the poorest are often so because they are too
incapacitated to join fully in the working life of the village. In every village interview addressing this issue,
village leaders noted the existence of such households (indeed, the formal rural social welfare system is
structured around identified poor households). These households are termed "five guarantee households,"
are primarily found among the childless elderly, and consistently numbered no more than 1 percent of the
population in villages visited by the preappraisal mission. Fellow villagers are legally obliged to provide
these households with a stipulated array of subsistence support, and village leaders consistently reported
that the village would ensure access to safe water on behalf of the poorest village members. In some cases,
the village welfare fund will cover the costs of the poorest. In others, common use, umnetered standpipes
will be part of the system and accessible to all village members. While such households are unlikely to be
offered household connections at communal expense, basic availability of safe water will be ensured.
23.    Perhaps those at greatest risk will be those households that have incomes just above the level
needed for special village poverty status. Such households will be able to control their own metered
consumption, whether at household tap or standpipe, but most villages plan to assess the capital
contribution on a per capita basis rather than an estimated use basis. Families with low per capita use will
therefore effectively subsidize those with higher use levels. However, as with other project issues,
experience under the previous projects provides good guidance on this issue. Under those projects, access
by the poorer villagers has not been a serious problem, so it is unlikely to be so under this one.
-45-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Years Ending
2005
Year I    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4    Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           9.9       22.8       25.9       19.6       8.2        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          9.9       22.8       25.9       19.6        8.2       0.0       0.0
Interest during    0.1       0.7        1.2        1.6        1.8        0.0       0.0
construction
Front-end fee    0.2        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing              10.2      23.5       27.1       21.2       10.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   9.1       10.6       10.9       8.7        6.7       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.6        6.5       8.1        6.2        1.7       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.6        6.5        8.1        6.2        1.7       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.6        6.5       8.1        6.2        1.7       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     10.2      23.5       27.1       21.2       10.0       0.0       0.0
F Year I   Year 2      Year 3  1 Year 4  1 Year 5     Year 6  1 Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Interest during construction  0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Front-end fee    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
-46-



Main assumptions:
Figures for Year 1 include those for 1999 and 2000.
Figures listed under Provincial Government also include financing from Prefectural, County, Township and/or
Local Governments.
Figures may not add up properly due to rounding.
-47-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will follow the Bank's Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999. Chinese Model Bidding Documents (including prequalification and bid evaluation documents),
published by Tsinghua University Press, dated May 1997 and which are acceptable to the Bank, or the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, will be used for all Bank-financed procurement. A Procurement
Plan, providing a timeline for each step of the procurement process, is included in the PIP, to be updated
annually.
All consultancy services financed by the Bank will be based on the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, issued in January 1997 and revised September
1997 and January 1999. Normally the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method will be used for
the selection of consulting firms. Consultancy services estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract
may be selected using one of three methods: (a) selection based on consultants' qualifications; (b) single
source selection; and (c) individual consultants. Services in which selection based on consultants'
qualifications is used and which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Services in which single source selection is used and which are estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. Services for the study of
procurement document review which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
All ICB procurement will be organized through the China National Chemical Construction Company
International Tendering Company (CNCCCITC), which has been contracted by the NPO to carry out that
work. CNCCCITC is an experienced and competent procurement agent with recent and relevant
experience in international competitive bidding on Bank/IDA-financed projects. All other procurement will
be conducted by the project offices. Intensive, continuous procurement training financed under the project
will help these offices maintain their quality and expertise. The tender documents to be used in the project
will be based on the model bid documents prepared by MOF and approved by the World Bank Group. All
civil works are expected to have a value well below $10 million; therefore no ICB procurement of civil
works is anticipated. Contracts for equipment and materials shall be grouped into packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each, to attract maximum international competition. Table A
summarizes the procurement categories and the expected procurement methods. The contract packages and
method of procurement have been agreed with the NPO.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works. The total value of civil works is estimated at $41.1 million. These include water supply
facilities (wells, pumphouses, treatment facilities, distribution systems, offices, latrines, and storage areas),
latrines under the sanitation component, and some county warehouses (where suitable rental facilities are
not available). Because even the largest systems would have total investments below $1 million, with most
systems below $200,000, and because of their dispersed locations, all civil works will be contracted by
-48-



national competitive bidding (NCB), national shopping or force account. Of the total $37.6 million for
civil works, it is expected that $12.2 million will be procured under NCB. Contracts with estimated values
above $400,000 will be contracted by the PPOs following the NCB procedures promulgated by the
government that have been reviewed and approved by the World Bank Group. Interested foreign bidders
will be allowed to bid for NCB contracts. For contracts with estimated values below $400,000 (i.e. for the
procurement of small works), project offices may use national shopping as an alternative to NCB. In
national shopping, the project office uses clear, uniform written specifications, including delivery terms and
conditions, to obtain bids from at least three qualified contractors. For contracts with estimated values at
or above $100,000, the PPO conducts the shopping and qualified bidders must be from at least two
different counties. For contracts with estimated values below $100,000, the CPO may conduct the
procurement. National shopping can be used for contracts up to an aggregate value of $25 million.
Included in this amount, force account may be used to procure civil works valued at or below $20,000 in
areas where there is no adequately qualified or interested contractor. The aggregate value of force account
procurement shall not exceed $4 million. Usage of force account for the procurement of civil works is
subject to the Bank's prior agreement.
Equipment and Materials. Procurement of major items of equipment and materials-pipes, steel and
pumps, along with audiovisual training equipment and utility vehicles-amounting to about $39.1 million
will be through ICB, managed by the NPO on behalf of the project provinces. CNCCCITC will act as the
procurement agency. Qualified domestic suppliers will be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15
percent or the prevailing rate of customs duties and import taxes payable by a nonexempt importer,
whichever is less. That equipment and materials will be procured through annual procurement actions.
Additionally, the project will procure printed and audiovisual sanitation and health education materials,
with each package valued under $100,000. These materials will be procured through national shopping, up
to a maximum of $500,000. No NCB equipment and materials procurement is anticipated. Any needed
equipment and materials not procured through ICB or national shopping will be procured as part of the
appropriate civil works contract.
Technical Assistance. An estimated $3.6 million will be devoted to technical assistance and training. The
project requires a baseline survey and resurveys to establish project impacts. These surveys have an
estimated cost of $0.2 million. The project also relies on an extensive training program to ensure efficient
implementation, with an estimated cost of $3.4 million. The Bank has worked with the borrower to
establish both total costs and unit costs for the survey and training activities. Within the unit costs, the
Bank has identified incremental costs of different types of surveys and training, defined as the direct costs
of the activity, net of government employee salaries and institutional overheads. These incremental costs
average 90 percent of total costs. The Bank would disburse against 100 percent of the eligible incremental
costs. Eligibility would be established through Bank no-objection to the detailed survey and training plans,
as these are developed and reflected in the annual work program.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All equipment and materials ICB packages (about 5 contracts, 100 percent of equipment and materials)
would be subject to the Bank's prior review, including notice of invitation to bid, bid documents, bid
evaluation and contracts. Project civil works will include some 479 piped systems with an average civil
works contract value of about $130,000, 147 deep-well hand pumps with an average value of under
$2,600, and 120 rainwater collectors, with an average value below $200. For civil works contracts, the
first piped system contract from each project county (27 contracts), and thereafter approximately 10
randomly designated contracts per year, will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Also, the first NCB
contact from each project county will be subject to the Bank's prior review. The high cost of prior review
relative to contract value necessitates the low prior review percentage. Aggressive post-review, with all
-49-



contracts. in any given county post-reviewed during supervision mission visits to the county, will provide a
strong incentive for good performance. An estimated 20 percent of piped system contracts will be subject
to post-review.
All good contracts to be procured using ICB will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Also subject to
prior review are the first contract for goods for health education in each project province (4 contracts).
The threshold for prior review of contracts for consultants will be $100,000 equivalent for firms and
$50,000 for individual contracts. For contracts below the threshold, prior review will apply to terms of
reference above the thresholds noted above, single-source selection, assignments of a critical nature, and
any amendments that would increase the original amount of the contract by more than 15%. Other
contracts will be subject to selective post-award review. (Please note that given the nature of this project,
the thresholds for procurement are not monetary, with the exception of consultancy services. Therefore,
Table B has not been included.)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IBRD loan of $16 million and IDA credit of $30 million would be disbursed over a period of
about five and a half years, matching the original disbursement period under the second and third rural
water supply project. This disbursement period is considered sufficient because implementation risks are
mitigated by (a) 10 percent of the five-year investment program being prepared to fnal design level prior to
appraisal; and (b) planning annual ICB procurement, thereby avoiding the bunching problems found in the
second project. Civil works disbursement rates vary across provinces to reflect the different level of
equipment and materials procured through ICB. Provinces with high civil works disbursement rates have
less complex systems and higher rates of contractor-supplied materials.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs), confirmed by the NPO, for: (a)
contracts for (i) civil works valued at less than $2.5 million; and (ii) equipment and materials costing less
than $0.5 million equivalent; (b) contracts for consulting services costing less than $100,000 equivalent for
firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals; and (c) training, study tours, and incremental costs (i.e. the
cost of travel, accommodation, meals, and printing of survey materials) incurred by CPOs in connection
with training and the carrying out of surveys. Documents supporting the SOEs will be retained by MOF
and made available for inspection during the course of Bank supervision missions and by external auditors.
All other disbursements will be made against fully documented expenditures.
Special account:
To expedite disbursements, four Special Accounts (one in each project province) will be established. The
authorized allocation for the account will be decided at negotiations, but it is expected to be in the range of
about four months' average disbursements. The accounts will be replenished monthly or whenever the
Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial value, whichever occurs first.
-50-



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                               0.0             15.7            20.7            4.7             41.1
(0.0)           (7.5)           (7.7)           (0.0)          (15.2)
2. Goods                               35.6             0.0             0.0             0.0            35.6
(26.7)          (0.0)           (0.0)           (0.0)           (26.7)
3. Services                            0.0              0.0             4.1             0.0            4.1
(0.0)           (0.0)           (3.9)           (0.0)           (3.9)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.0              0.0             0.0             5.6             5.6
(0.0)           (0.0)           (0.0)           (0.0)          (0.0)
5. Interest during                     0.0              0.0             0.0             5.4             5.4
construction
(0.0)           (0.0)           (0.0)           (0.0)          (0.0)
6. Front-end fee                       0.0              0.0             0.0             0.2            0.2
(0.0)           (0.0)           (0.0)           (0.2)          (0.2)
Total                               35.6            15.7            24.8            15.9            92.0
(26.7)          (7.5)           (11.6)          (0.2)           (46.0)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent
units.
-51-



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Civil Works                          15.1              Anhui: 41 percent of expenditures
Fujian: 44 percent of expenditures
Guizhou: 39 percent of expenditures
Hainan: 43 percent of expenditures
Goods, Equipment,                    26.8              100 percent of foreign expenditures,
Materials                                               100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory, net of VAT), and 75
percent of other items procured
locally
Training and Study Tours              2.0                  100 percent of incremental
expenditures
Consultant Services                   0.4                 100 percent of expenditures
Incremental Costs                     1.5                 100 percent of expenditures
Unallocated                           0.0
Total Project Costs                  45.8
Interest during            0.0
construction
Front-end fee             0.2
Total                                46.0
-52-



TABLE D: Schedule of Disbursements
Bank fiscal year   IDA/IBRD     Cumulative ($           Project       RWSS2        China Profile
and sememster    ($ million)      million)            Profilel/a     Profile /b        /c
2000
First Id         2.0          2.0                    4.0           6.0            0.0
Second           4.3          6.3                    14.0          15.0           3.0
2001
First            2.8          9.1                    20.0          24.0           26.0
Second           5.6          14.7                   32.0          33.0           26.0
2002
First            5.0          19.7                   43.0          46.0           38.0
Second           5.8          25.5                   55.0          60.0           42.0
2003
First            5.1          30.6                   66.0          69.0           62.0
Second           5.5          36.1                   78.0          78.0           82.0
2004
First            3.2          39.3                   88.0          85.0           86.0
Second           3.5          42.8                   93.0          93.0           98.0
2005
First            2.3          45.1                   98.0          97.0           98.0
Second           0.9          46.0                   100.0         100.0           100.0
/a_This is the same disbursement profile as that for NRWS3 (Cr. N0270-CHA).
/b Disbursement profile for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2336-CHA).
-53-



Lc Disbursement profile for China (water and sanitation sector) issued August 1995.
/d Includes initial Special Account disbursement.
-54-



China
Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Review of Financial Management System
February 1 -12, 1999
I.    Background
1.    Scope/Objective of Review of Financial Management System. This report is the result of a
financial management review and analysis of the project as conducted by Junxue Chu, Financial
Management Officer, EACCF and Nancy Chen, Financial Management Specialist, EAPCO. The scope of
work has been set out in the 'Review of Financial Management System' as documented in the LACI
Handbook, Annex 2. The objective of the review is to determine whether the project has in place an
adequate financial management system as required by the Bank in OP/BP 10.02.
2.    Project objective. The objective of the proposed Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(FRWSS) is to reduce the time and cost for people in poor rural areas to obtain clean, safe water supply,
while improving related sanitation and health behaviors through education and pilot investments. The
principle objective is to provide access to safe, conveniently located water to 3.1 million poor rural people
in Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou and Hainan provinces, and to improve related water and sanitation practices.
Key project performance indicators will be: (a) number of villages newly served by project-supplied water
meeting national rural water quality standards; (b) number of improved latrines constructed in villages in
the project counties and percentage point improvement compared to the baseline period in key water-related
health behaviors; and (c) water charges sufficient to cover water systems operations and maintenance, and
depreciation or loan/credit repayment.
3.    Project status. The project is currently at pre-appraisal stage, scheduled for negotiation on April
12, 1999 in Beijing and submission to the Board in June 15, 1999. Implementation of the project is
scheduled to run from June 1999 to June 2005.
II.    Organizational Structure/Institutional Arrangements
4.     Organization Chart (Attachment I). The overall responsible agency for the project is at the
National level: National Project Office (NPO). Project implementation will be undertaken at the provincial,
county and township level. In terms of project administration support, project management offices have
been established in each individual province (PPO) and county (CPO). The financial accounting and
reporting aspects of the project are to be handled by the national, provincial and county project
management offices.
Each of the four provinces will have its respective Financial Bureau - ' World Bank Division' to manage,
monitor and reconcile its Special Account, check and monitor withdrawal applications (WA) and to verify
payment requests meet Bank requirements.( See VI for detailed discussion of Special Account,
disbursements and supporting documentation.) As the Special Accounts are only accessible to and managed
by the Provincial Financial Bureaus, cash management is segregated from project administration which is
conducted at the PPOs and CPOs.
Each of the PPOs and CPOs is expected to maintain supporting documentation and is responsible for
consolidated project level reporting at each appropriate level.
-55-



5.    Institutional experience with Bank-Financed Projects. NPO was established to manage the Second
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project. NPO, Provincial and County Finance Bureaus have had
substantial previous experience with Bank financed projects and therefore are familiar with the existing
disbursement, procurement, financial reporting and auditing requirements. However, the PPOs and CPOs
(both Provincial and County levels) are new to working on/with Bank projects. Training on financial
management will therefore be arranged primarily focusing on PPO and CPO staff (see Section VII for
details). However, the counties involved all have previous experience with Bank fmanced projects (e.g.
Health IV, Health VI and Intensive Irrigation Project).
III.   Project Structure and Category
6.    Financing and Cost Sharing. The financing of the project will be supported by IBRD (US$ 16 M),
IDA (US$ 30 M) and Government financing (US$ 46 M) for a total estimated project cost of US$ 92 M.
7.    Loan Agreement Categories. These will include: civil works, goods, consultant services, training
and incremental costs. Each of the categories is broken down by Province.
8.    Project Components. The project is comprised of the following three components:
a.    Water Supply
b.    Health Education & Sanitation
C.    Project Management
IV.   Internal and Other Controls
9.    Project Financial Management Systems Manual. The objective of this Manual is to document the
operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management encompassing all levels of project
management (i.e. National, Provincial, County and Participating Agencies). The scope of the Manual will
encompass financial management infrastructure and staffing (e.g. organization chart and job descriptions),
identification of the accounting standards to be used by the project and all participating entities, project
reporting formats and procedures for cash management, asset management, procurement and
disbursements, counterpart fund management, budgeting and auditing. In terms of status, a template of this
Manual has been provided to the NPO who will be responsible for drafting the Manual as well as the
summary version to be attached to PIP. The summary version of the Manual is scheduled to be prepared on
or before March 1, 1999, and the Manual will be available before negotiations.
10.   MoF/Provincial Regulations. The administration, accounting and reporting of the Project are
required to be set up in accordance with the following regulations/circulars as issued by the Ministry of
Finance:
a.      Circular #6 "Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for
Projects Financed by the World Bank" as issued by the World Bank Department of the Ministry of
Finance in January 1997.
b.      Circular #127: "Temporary Regulations on Accounting and Reporting for Projects
Financed by the World Bank" issued in 1993 - provides the basis of accounting treatment for project
activities and guidelines for project fmancial management. Although it is outdated, the chart of
accounts designed by this Circular for use by Bank projects is still in effect.
-56-



c.,     Accounting Law issued January 1985 with subsequent amendments - includes job
responsibilities for cashiers and accountants and financial management recording and reporting
requirements.
d.      MoF Agreement - An agreement has been reached by MoF on a standard set of financial
statements to be used for World Bank projects. This agreement outdates the previous MoF Circular
#6: "Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the
World Bank" issued January 1997. The format of the financial statements included in this MoF
Agreement package is primnarily based on the construction accounting standard noted in 11. below.
11.   Standards. The Construction Accounting Standard issued by Accounting Departrnent, MoF for
construction oriented projects dictates the format of financial statements, chart of accounts and related
instructions. As noted above, this standard will affect project accounting and reporting requirements.
V.    Project Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting
12.   Accounting standards. The accounts will be prepared in accordance with the Circulars noted in
section IV. above on an accrual accounting, double entry bookkeeping basis in accordance with Chinese
accounting standards, including the above-noted construction accounting standard.
13.   Project Reporting. Clearance has been received from MoF on a standard set of project financial
statements which will be utilized by this project. In terms of reporting cycle, the project financial
statements will be submitted to the Bank bi-annually, in a project consolidated form, and include the
following: (a) Balance Sheet; (b) Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component; (c) Statement of
Implementation of Loan Agreement; (d) Statement of Implementation of Credit Agreement; and (e) Special
Account Reconciliation Statement. Each of the project management offices will be managing, monitoring
and maintaining their respective financial reports. Project level consolidation will be done by the
Accountants at the Provincial and National levels.
14.   Counterpartfunding. Counterpart funding is to be provided by the following: (a) provincial,
prefecture and county financing of US$23 M; and (b) beneficiary financing, in cash and in-kind, of US$ 23
M. The RMB equivalent value of the loan will be estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, and the
sum of counterpart funding commitments will be expected to at least match the loan value in those terms.
VI.   Special Account, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation
15.   Special Account. Each of the four provincial Financial Bureaus will manage, monitor and
maintain its respective Special Account. Corresponding USD accounts for Special Account related
transactions will be held at the Prefecture (with the exception of Hainan Province where the Prefecture level
will not be involved) and County level Finance Bureaus, acting as a channeling agent to transfer funds from
the Provincial Special Account through to the township level. A proposal for a Special Account at the
National level, for disbursements controlled by the NPO, is being discussed between NPO and MoF.
16.   Disbursements and Supporting Documentation. The original copy of WAs and supporting
documentation will be initially retained at the point of initiation, primarily the participating agencies, then
transferred to CPOs for record keeping. A copy of WA and the supporting documentation will be required
and retained at the Financial Bureau for amounts exceeding the SOE threshold.. Disbursement application
processing will take two months of processing time from Participating Agency to Provincial Finance
-57-



Bureau. (This point will be addressed in the FMS manual).
VII.  Staffing and Training
17.   Staffing. As noted in Section II, though the NPO and the Provincial Finance Bureaus are
experienced with Bank projects, the PPOs and CPOs do not have experience with prior Bank projects and
therefore may be unfamiliar with Bank procedures. The accountants at both the PPOs and CPOs are new
to Bank projects; however, discussions with the project staff indicated that the accountants all have prior
accounting experience. In terms of the status of hiring, at present, the NPO is fully staffed; accountants at
the Provincial and County levels are being hired for the duration of the project implementation.
18.    Training. It is suggested, as many PPO and CPO staff are new to Bank projects, that training
should be arranged for all project management offices and Participating Agencies on the following: (a)
Bank procedures and requirements on the withdrawal of Bank funds; (b) the newly revised project financial
statement formats; (c) performance indicator and procurement reporting requirements; and (d) project audit
requirements.
VIII. Audit Arrangements
19.   The Bank requires the Project to have its project financial statements audited in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. It is anticipated that the National Audit Office and its branch will be
found acceptable by the Bank for the purposes of auditing project financial statements. The audit reports
will be scheduled for submission to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the calendar year.
IX.   Budgeting
20.   The annual budget will be prepared by respective CPOs and reviewed, consolidated and approved
by the County level Finance Bureau prior to submitting to PPOs. PPOs will review, consolidate and
approve the budget prior to submitting to the Provincial Finance Bureau, who after the review and
approval, will submit it to NPO. Procedures used in the budgeting process are expected to be detailed in
the financial management systems manual and serve as a guide for all parties involved.
X.    Issues/Next steps
21.   Financial Management Systems Manual. As noted in Section IV, a summary version of the
manual is being prepared by the NPO. It will be submitted for review by the Bank financial management
staff on or before March 1, 1999. It has been agreed by the NPO that a draft Manual will be provided for
review and commnent by the Bank financial management staff on or before April 2, 1999, and the Manual
will be finalized before negotiations. It has also been agreed by the NPO that each PPOs will revise the
Manual to suit its own financial management system by loan effectiveness. Discussions with the project
staff indicate that at both NPO and Finance Bureau, there is a lack of segregation of duties for bookkeeping
and cash custody; in other words, the individual is both an accountant and cashier. NPO has agreed that
incompatible functions should be separated at all levels or in any event that reality does not allow sufficient
segregation of duties or such segregation renders operation impractical or unrealistic, secondary controls
(such as review by another higher-level staff) will be in place to fill in the gap.
22    Allocation of common costs. Discussions with the project staff indicate that certain common costs
such as training, incurred at the National and Provincial level, would be allocated to the County level.
Such costs once allocated, would be recorded in the County level sub-ledger and therefore would not
-58-



appear in the respective books at the National and Provincial level. Thus it is imperative that common
costs be defined and addressed in the on-lending agreement.
23.   Foreign Exchange Risk. Although MoF agreed that provincial governments will assume the
foreign exchange risk connected with loan repayments, currently PPOs are not sure who will bear such
risk, i.e. township or counties. This issue needs to be resolved between the MoF and the Provincial
government and addressed in the on-lending agreement.
24.    Training. NPO has agreed to provide training to all levels of the project financial management
staff and Participating Agencies, and to invite National Audit Office staff ( NAO) to participate in the
training, on the following: (a) Bank procedures and requirements on the withdrawal of Bank funds; (b) the
newly revised project financial statement formats; (c) performance indicator and procurement reporting
requirements; and (d) project audit requirements. The training is expected to be conducted in June 1999.
25.   Staffing. As soon as the hiring is completed, a listing of new Accountants /DOs should be
provided for the Bank financial management staff for review of the background, qualifications and
experience.
26.    Quality of Project Accounting Records. Since the bulk of the activities will take place at the
township level whilst the accounting records (i.e. sub-ledgers and original vouchers ) will be transferred to
and maintained at the County level for bookkeeping and Bank supervision missions, there is a concern for
the completeness and accuracy of the accounting records being transferred to the CPOs, who are
responsible for the recording and maintenance of accounting information. This situation will need to be
addressed as a priority during the training and supervision missions.
27.   Competence of County Audit Office staff. Discussions with a Provincial Audit Office staff
member indicates that County Audit Office staff in general do not have as good credentials as the
Provincial Audit Office staff. A training course on Audit Manual was provided to the NAO in August
1998 by PricewaterhouseCoopers. The Bank should consider having NAO provide training to its
provincial and county level staff.
XI.   Conclusion
28.   Pending addressing the issues noted above, the financial management team has determined that the
project will be satisfying the Bank's fnancial management requirements as required by OP/BP 10.02. The
project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement reached between the Bank and the China
Ministry of Finance.
-59-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)      10/14/98                   10/14/98
Appraisal mission departure              03/29/99                   03/24/99
Negotiations                             04/12/99                   04/12/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness           09/15/99
Prepared by:
National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee, China Water Supply and Sanitation National Project
Office
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grants
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Task Team
George Plant (Team Leader), EACCF  Engineering/Technical
Dawn Vermilya, EACCF              Finance
Mark Wu, EACCF                    Operations/Economics
Xiaofeng Li, EACCF                Operations
Lee Travers, TWUWS                Economics/Environment
Ping Huang (Consultant)           Health, hygiene, and sanitation education
Ai Chin Wee, WSP                  Participation
Chongwu Sun, EACCF                Environment
Junxue Chu, EACCF                 Disbursement
Margaret Png, LEGEA               Legal
Nancy Chen, EAPCO                 Financial Management Assessment
Jinan Shi, EACCF                  Procurement
Youlan Zou, EACCF                 Resettlement
Peer Reviewers
Caroline van den Berg, LCSFP      Economics
Richard Pollard, WSP              Rural water/Sanitation
Brian Smith, ECSIN                Finance
-60-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), May 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Preparation Documents
Anhui Province Project Proposal Report, September 1998
Fujian Province Project Proposal Report, October 1998
Guizhou Province Project Proposal Report, September 1998
Hainan Province Project Proposal Report, September 1998
NPO Plans for Training and Allocation of PHRD Funding, November 1998
NPO Feasibility Study Report, March 1999
Anhui Province Feasibility Study Report, January 1999
Fujian Province Feasibility Study Report, January 1999
Guizhou Province Feasibility Study Report, January 1999
Hainan Province Feasibility Study Report, January 1999
County-level Feasibility Study Reports for all 27 project counties, January 1999
Anhui Province Land Management Regulation, December 1992
Fujian Province Land Management Regulation, August 1998
Guizhou Province Land Management Regulation, September 1998
Hainan Province Land Management Regulation, October 1997
*Including electronic files
-61-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                  IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
CN-PE-3653      1999 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   CONTAINER TRANSPORT                        71.00         0.00        0.00       71.00       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-41B90     1999 PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOFCHIN    LIAONINGURBTRANSP                          150.00         0.00        0.00      150.00      0.00       0.00
CN-PE-49665     1999 PRC                           ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                     90.00        30.00        0.00      119.03      0.00       0.00
CN-PE-50036     1999 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                      200.00         0.00        0.00      200.00      7.45       0.00
CN-PE-51856     1999 MINISTRYOF FINANCE            ACCNTG REFORM &DEV                       27.40         5.61        0.00       32.96       1.36      0.00
CN-PE-63123     1999 PRC                           YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                     40.00        40.00        0.00       79.21      0.00       0.00
CN-PE-3539      1998 PRC                           SUST COAST RES DEV                      100.00         0.00        0.00       96.00     -0.25       0.00
CN-PE-3566      1998 PRC                           BASIC HEALTH                              0.00        85.00        0.00       81.99      0.05       0.00
CN-PE-35698     1998 PRC                           HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                    300.00         0.00        0.00      300.00      9.00       0.00
CN-PE-3591      1998 GOC                           STATEFARMSCOMMERCI                      150.00         0.00        0.00      102.59    -32.91       0.00
CN-PE-3606      1998 PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOF CHIN   ENERGYCONSERVATION                          63.00         0.00        0.00       63.00      2.87       0.00
CN-PE-3614      1998 MINISTRY OF FINANCE           GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                    200.00         0.00        0.00      192.00      5.61       0.00
CN-PE-3619      1998 CHINA                         2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                    123.00         0.00        0.00      123.00      18.50      0.00
CN-PE-36414     1998 PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA   GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                         72.00        20.00        0.00       88.83      -1.20      0.00
CN-PE-36949     1998 PRC                           NAT.HWY3-HUBEI                          250.00         0.00        0.00      242.00     12.00       0.00
CN-PE-40185     1998 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                       95.00         0.00        0.00       92.00     21.75       0.00
CN-PE-45788     1998 PRC                           TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                      230.00         0.00        0.00      230.00     39.70       0.00
CN-PE-46563     1998 PRC                           TARIM BASIN II                           90.00        60.00        0.00      140.76      5.11       0.00
CN-PE-46952     1998 PRC                           FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                    100.00       100.00        0.00      200.81      8.50      17.00
CN-PE-49700     1998 GOC                           IAIL-2                                  300.00         0.00        0.00      280.00       3.30      0.00
CN-PE-51736     1998 PRC                           E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                    250.00         0.00        0.00      250.00      92.38      0.00
CN-PE-56491     1998 PRC                           HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                          0.00        28.40        0.00       10.66     -9.81       0.00
ON-PE-34081     1997 PRC                           XIAOLANGDI MULTI. 11                    430.00         0.00        0.00      331.51     89.27       0.00
CN-PE-3590      1997 PRC                           QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                     30.00       150.00        0.00      148.35     23.88       0.00
CN-PE-3635      1997 PRC                           VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                     10.00        20.00        0.00       15.19       1.30      0.00
CN-PE-3637      1997 PRC                           NATLRURWATERIII                           0.00        70.00        0.00       62.10      10.38      0.00
CN-PE-36405     1997 PRC                           WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                    400.00         0.00        0.00      320.09      5.08       0.00
CN-PE-3643      1997 GOC                           XINJIANG HIGHWAYS 11                    300.00         0.00        0.00      230.72     57.72       0.00
CN-PE-3650      1997 PRC                           TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                    400.00         0.00        0.00      394.61     137.17      0.00
CN-PE-3654      1997 PRC                           HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                    400.00         0.00        0.00      336.64     86.62       0.00
CN-PE-36952     1997 PRC                           BASIC ED. IV                              0.00        85.00        0.00       41.37    -26.19       0.00
CN-PE-38988     1997 PRC                           HEILONGJIANGADP                         120.00         0.00        0.00       93.02       8.38      0.00
CN-PE-44485     1997 GOC                           SHANGHAI WAIGAOCIAO                     400.00         0.00        0.00      400.00     53.05       0.00
CN-PE-34618     1996 PRC                           LABOR MARKET DEV.                         10.00       20.00        0.00       24.00     22.16       0.00
CN-PE-3507      1996 P.R.C.                        ERTAN HYDRO II                          400.00         0.00        0.00       25.23    -22.55       0.00
CN-PE-3563      1996 PRC                           ANIMAL FEED                              150.00        0.00        0.00      138.78    110.45      18.79
CN-PE-3569      1996 PRC                           SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                    260.00         0.00        7.75      110.73     32.49      22.50
CN-PE-3589      1996 YUNNAN PROV. GOV.             DISEASE PREVENTION                        0.00       100.00        0.00       69.06     58.11       0.00
CN-PE-3594      1996 PRC                           GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                      60.00        90.00        0.00      125.65     26.19       0.00
CN-PE-3599      1996 PRC                           YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                       125.00       25.00        0.00      139.13      18.15      0.00
CN-PE-3602      1996 PRC                           HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                    125.00        25.00        0.00      123.98     76.31       0.00
CN-PE-3638      1996 SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT            SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                     80.00        20.00        0.00       80.15     27.70       0.00
CN-PE-3646      1996 CHINA                         CHONGQING IND POL CT                    170.00         0.00       77.99 .     91.22    102.45       0.00
CN-PE-3648      1996 PRC                           SECONDSHANGHAISEWE                      250.00         0.00        0.00      157.96     76.95       0.00
CN-PE-3649      1996 PRC                           SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                      0.00       100.00        0.00       34.56      -8.05      0.00
CN-PE-3652      1996 PRC                           2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                    210.00         0.00        0.00      139.29     51.28       0.00
CN-PE-36950     1996 PRC                           BASIC ED. POOR III                        0.00       100.00        0.00       11.93    -20.76       0.00
CN-PE-40513     1996 PRC                           2ND HENAN PROV HWY                      210.00         0.00        0.00      175.14     51.14       0.00
CN-PE-3493      1995                               INLAND WATERWAYS                        420.00         0.00        0.00      275.02      -9.54      0.00
CN-PE-3571      1995                               RAILWAYS VII                            400.00         0.00       29.00      344.67    201.66       -2.97
-62-



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                 IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3585      1995 GOC                          SHENYANG IND. REFORM                   175.00         0.00        0.00      97.54     49.74       0.00
CN-PE-3596      1995 PRC                          YANGTZE BASIN WATER                     100.00      110.00        0.00       35.28    -12.19      0.00
CN-PE-3598      1995 PRC                          LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                    110.00        0.00        0.00       70.21     58.65      0.00
CN-PE-3600      1995 PRC                          TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                    200.00        0.00        0.00      125.74     43.65      0.00
CN-PE-3603      1995 MOF                          ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                    275.00       75.00       20.00      199.54    155.96      7.94
CN-PE-36041     1995 PRC                          FISCAL & TAX REF. &                      50.00       25.00        0.00       66.31     41.61      0.00
CN-PE-3612      1995 PRC                          XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                      150.00        0.00        0.00       47.85     37.86      0.00
CN-PE-3634      1995 PRC                          MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                      0.00       90.00        0.00       18.42      8.84      0.00
CN-PE-3636      1995 PRC                          BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                      0.00      100.00        0.00        3.39     -1.46      0.00
CN-PE-3639      1995 PRC                          SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                    95.00       200.00        0.00      143.78     32.70      0.00
CN-PE-3642      1995 GOC                          ZHEJIANG POWER DEvT                     400.00        0.00        0.00      136.50    -44.02      0.00
CN-PE-3647      1995 PRC                          ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                       0.00                    0.00        5.51      5.59      0.00
CN-PE-36947     1995 MOH                          SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                    270.00        0.00        0.00      132.50    119.80     80.99
CN-PE-37156     1995 PRC                          IODINE DEF. DISORDER                      7.00       20.00        7.00        1.91     11.57      -0.19
CN-PE-3502      1994 PRC                          RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                       0.00      110.00        0,00       29.62     24.07      0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994 PRC                          HEBEIIHENAN NATIONAL                    380.00        0.00        0.00       48.65     15.63      0.00
CN-PE-3540      1994 PRC                          LOESS PLATEAU                             0.00      150.00        0.00       27.96    -23.21      0.00
CN-PE-3557      1994 PRC                          FOREST RESOURCE DEV                       0.00      200.00        0.00       40.47     13.01     -32.36
CN-PE-3562      1994 PRC                          XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                 460.00        0.00        0.00        0.83      0.83      0.00
CN-PE-3586      1994 PRC                          SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                    160.00        0.00        0.00       62.73     57.29      0.00
CN-PE-3593      1994 GOC                          SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                        0.00      205.00        0.00       25.39    -12.80      0.00
CN-PE-3596      1994 SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT    RED SOILS II DEVELOP                        0.00      150.00        0.00       40.36     16.45      0.00
CN-PE-3609      1994 GOC                          SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION          255.00        0.00        0.00      122.62     71.13      0.00
CN-PE-3622      1994 GOVERNMENT OF PRC            SHANGHAI MTP II                         150.00        0.00        0.00        7.36      7.37      0.00
CN-PE-3626      1994 PRC                          FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                     140.00        0.00        0.00       58.63     36.62      8.35
CN-PE-3633      1994 PRC                          TELECOMMUNICATIONS                      250.00        0.00       30.00       15.27     45.27      0.00
CN-PE-3641      1994 P.R.C.                       YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                    350.00        0.00        0.00       74.09     57.77      0.00
CN-PE-3644      1994 GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C   XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                    0.00      110.00        0.00       25.56      8.87      0.00
CN-PE-3473      1993 PRC                          ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                      0.00      110.00        0.00       19.79     19.17      0.00
CN-PE-3512      1993 PRC                          SHANGHAI PORT REST.                     150.00        0.00       25.74        3.88     29.10      2.86
CN-PE-3518      1993 PRC                          GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT               240.00        0.00        0.00        2.08     -0.94      0.00
CN-PE-3533      1993 PRC                          TIANJIN IND. II                         150.00        0.00       40.35       13.59     44.43      7.93
CN-PE-3559      1993 PRC                          AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                      0.00      115.00        0.00       10.41     -1.50      0.00
CN-PE-3561      1993 PRC                          SICHUAN ADP                               0.00      147.00        0.00        5.49      0.00      0.00
CN-PE-3567      1993 PRC                          EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                      0.00      100.00        0.00        9.59      7.96      8.04
CN-PE-3570      1993 PRC                          RAILWAY VI                              420.00        0.00        0.00       94.61     93.62      0.00
CN-PE-3580      1993 PRC                          SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.            250.00        0.00        0.00        4.15     -0.31      0.00
CN-PE-3581      1993 PRC                          HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                   120.00        0.00        0.00        9.59      9.60      0.00
CN-PE-3592      1993 PRC                          REF. INsrL.& PREINV                       0.00       50.00        0.00       18.47     18.48      0.00
CN-PE-3597      1993 PRC                          TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                    100.00      100.00        0.00       47.43     43.08      0.00
CN-PE-3816      1993 ROC                          TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                     300.00        0.00        0.00       65.95     49.37      0.00
CN-PE-3623      1993 PRC                          FINANCIALSECTORTA                         0.00       60.00        0.00       19.16     16.21      0.00
CN-PE-3627      1993 BEWING MUNICIPALITY           GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                   325.00      165.00        0.00      325.46    322.19     86.20
CN-PE-3632      1993 R.O.C.                        ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                     0.00       50.00        0.00       10.71     11.06      0.03
CN-PE-3503      1992                              ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                    310.00        0.00        0.00        7.79      7.80      0.00
CN-PE-3534      1992                              ZHEJIANG PROVTRANSP                     220.00        0.00        0.00      . 19.91    19.92     12.42
CN-PE-3564      1992                              BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                      45.00       80.00        0.00       2528      20.02      8.32
CN-PE-3565      1992                              SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                      0.00       60.00        1.69        1.32     -0.08      0.00
CN-PE-3568      1992                              TIANJIN URB DEV& EN                       0.00      100.00        0.00       18.33     15.24      -2.50
Total:  14,868.40    3,866.01      239.62    9,983.25   2,97525    243.35
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    8,558.59          12,529.50       21,088.09
of which has been repaid:         73.75        2,515.23        2,588.98
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:   18,550.68           9,648.52       28,199.20
Amount sold:          0.00            0.00            0.00
of which repaid:         0.00            0.00            0.00
-63-



Total Undisbursed:   9,983.25      21.95    10,005.20
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-64-



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Mar-i 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                  Pacific Ports                 0.00     0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00      3.64    0.00
1987/92/94          China Bicycles                 8.50    0.00    3.39     0.00    8.50    0.00     3.39    0.00
1993                Shenzhen PCCP                  3.76    0.00    0.99    0.00    3.76    0.00    0.99    0.00
1993                Yantai Cement                 13.51    0.00     1.95    7.22    13.51    0.00    1.95    7.22
1994                China Walden Mgt               0.00    0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1994                China Walden JV                0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.53    0.00
1994                Dalian Glass                  20.50    0.00    2.40   40.50   20.50    0.00    2.40   40.50
1994                Dynamic Fund                   0.00    0.00   12.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.08    0.00
1994/97             PTP Leshan                    11.20    0.00     1.00    14.00   11.20    0.00     1.00   14.00
1995                Dupont Suzhou                 23.36    0.00    4.15    46.80   23.36    0.00    4.15   46.80
1995                Newbridge Inv.                 0.00    0.00    7.19     0.00    0.00    0.00     3.89    0.00
1995                Suzhou PVC                    22.00    0.00    2.48    22.20   22.00    0.00    2.48   22.20
1996                Beijing Hormel                 4.64    0.00     0.50    4.95    4.64    0.00     0.50    4.95
1996                Jingyang                      40.00    0.00     0.00   100.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00
1996                Nanjing Kumnho                15.03    0.00    3.81   42.73    12.66    0.00    3.81   35.98
1996                TianjinKurnho                 11.17    0.00    0.00    33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                Weihai Weidongri               3.83    0.00    0.00     0.00    3.83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                Ningbo                         0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00
1997                Orient Finance                13.33    0.00    0.00    16.67   13.33    0.00     0.00   16.67
1997                PTP Hubei                     12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38    10.96    0.00     0.00   22.04
1997                Rabobank PTPC                  2.40    0.00     0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Caltex Ocean                  21.00    0.00     0.00   45.00    16.23    0.00    0.00   34.77
1998                Chengxin-IBCA                  0.00    0.00     0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Leshan Scana                   6.10    0.00     1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Rabobank SHFC                  2.75    0.00    0.00    2.75    2.25    0.00      0.00    2.25
Total Portfolio:       235.71    0.00   53.57  403.60  206.73    0.00   43.82  347.38
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               CHENGDU CHEMICAL                7.40    3.20     0.00    8.60
1998               EURECA                           0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998               JIANGSU COLINE                   6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               ORIENT FIN A INC                3.33    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               SHANGHAI KRUPP                 30.00    0.00     0.00   78.44
1998               WUHAN CIG                        0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998               WUHAN PORT                      5.00    0.00     0.00    5.00
1998               ZHEJIANG COLINE                 6.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               XIB                            50.00   20.00     0.00    0.00
1998               ZHEN JING                       4.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               CHINEFARGE                      12.80    0.00    0.00   20.00
1997               NISSAN/DONGFENG                20.20    0.00     0.00   27.00
1997               SMC                             14.00    0.00    0.00    14.00
1997               PTP HOLDINGS                    0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Conmmitment:     160.23   29.20    0.00   153.04
-65-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
East   Lower.                                          1128/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asia&    middle.
China    Pacific   Income        Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       1,227.2      1,753     2,282                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS1                       860        970      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      1,055.4      1,707     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                            1.1        1.3        1.2     G                                  G
Labor force (I%)                                          1.1        1.4        1.3     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest Vear available. 1991-97)                                   capita                         enrollment
Poverty N% of poPulation below national poverty line)       7
Urban population (% of total population)                   32         32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           70        68         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   32         38        36
Child malnutrition (56 of children under 5)                16         16         ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                     90         84        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       19         17        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)     120       118        114         -     China
Male                                                   121        120        116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 120        119        113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     19t6       1996       1997
Econemic raties'
GDP (USS billions)                            151.6    295.7       816.5     902.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  27.9      37.7       39.6      38.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP               5.0      12.2       21.0      23.0                       Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     28.5      35.2       41.7      42.7
Gross national savings/GDP                     28.5      35.3       40.4      41.4
Current account balance/GDP                     0.2      -2.5        0.9       3.2        _mt
Interest payments/GDP                             ..      0.2        0.6        0.6     Domesticment
Total debt/GDP                                    ..      8.0       15.8       16.3      Savings                       Ie n
Total debt servicelexports                        ..      9.6        8.7        8.6
Present value of debt/GDP                         ..        .          .       14.9
Present value of debUexports                      ..        .                 62.7
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97      1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                    9.3     10.1       9.6        8.8                      -China
GNP per capita                         8.3      8.6       8.7        7.4         .Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         18.8     16.6       5.6       27.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996       1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             35
Agriculture                                    32.8      27.1       20.4       18.7
Industry                                       45.4      44.0       49.5      49.2      20
Manufacturing                                 29.5     35.5       37.8       37.3     1
Services                                       21.7      28.9       30.1      32.1        i
Private consumption                            64.0      51.4       46.7      45.7             92   93   94   95   95   97
General government consumption                  7.5      13.4       11.6       11.6                      G        -*--GDP
Imports of goods and services                   4.5      14.7       18.9      18.5
1976-86  1987-97       1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     6.0       4.4        5.1        3.5    40
Industry                                       11.0      13.8       12.1       10.8    30
Manufacturing                                 12.8     13.3       11.6        9.9  
Services                                       12.0       8.7        7.9        8.3    20X
Private consumption                             9.3       8.8       11.1        6.2
General government consumption                  9.4       9.9        9.5        8.2     o
Gross domestic investment                      10.8      11.2        8.2        5.6            92   93   94   95   95   97
Imports of goods and services                  22.5      12.8        5.9       13.1             -     Exports      e  Imports
Gross national product                           9.8      9.9        9.8        8.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-66-



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           30
Consumer prices                                          6.5        9.4       7.9    20
Implicit GDP deflator                           4.0      4.6        5.9       1.2    15J
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    D
Current revenue                                  ..    24.0        11.4      12.0             92    93    94    95    96   97
Current budget balance                           ..      5.6        0.6       0.6              -     GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -1.8        -1.5      -1.5
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   30,942    151,066   182,696     200,000
Food                                           ..   4,448      10,232    11,054
Fuel                                           ..   3,683       5,929     6,987      150,00l
Manufactures                                   ..  19,670    129,141   158,767
Total imports (cif)                              ..  42,904    138,838   142,361      500,00_
Food                                           ..   2,002       7,866     6,308   s uouDo
Fuel and energy                                ..    504        6,877    10,306
Capital goods                                  ..  20,415      59,610    57,930          o
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       66          ..
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       69          .                              Exports     Ulmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio
(US$ millDons)
Exports of goods and services                 7,383   29,583    171,700   207,253     4T
Imports of goods and services                 7,125   37,472    154,100   166,755
Resource balance                               258   -7,889      17,600    40,498     2U
Net income                                       0       176   -12,370   -15,900
Net current transfers                            0      255       1,922     4,660     D
91   92         94   95   90   97
Current account balance                        258   -7,458       7,152    29,258
Financing items (net)                            ..   5,410    28,248       6,599
Changes in net reserves                           ..   2,048    -35,400   -35,857     ^
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           ..  16.417    111,728   146,448
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)                1.9      3.5        8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..  23,719   128,817   146,697
IBRD                                           ..     965       7,616     8,239                          A: 8,239
IDA                                            ..     774      7,579      7,830           G: 31,464            B: 7,830
Total debt service                               ..   2,974      15,756    18,445                                   D: 2,904
IBRD                                           ..      66        840       858
IDA                                            ..        8        73        81                                       E 20,782
I-
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..      155       249       228
Official creditors                             ..   1,165       4,401     4,315
Private creditors                              ..   3,693       6,454     8,134
Foreign direct investment                      ..   1,875     40,180    44,236
Portfolio equity                               ..        0      3,466     8,457                   F: 75,478
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..   1,120       1,900     2,425     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..     607      2,097      2,275     B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..        0       364       377      c - IMF                    .  G - Short-erm
Net flows                                      ..     607       1,734     1,898
Interest payments                              ..       75       549       562
Net transfers                                  ..     532       1,185     1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                           1/28199
-67-



MAP SECTION



LBRD 30180
ANHUllZROVINCE'--SADN                                                                                    FUJIAN PROVINCE,
.'                                                              j                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ZHEJIANG
0   5.0      100       AN'N0                                                                                         .50      100                                                                                                                          CHINA
KIJOTrRQNGKEMETERS                                                                                                                             NG  LA
xv,o                                                  KILOMETERS                        UY N' ' SIAN   SOG                 >FOURTH  RURAL WATER SUPPLY
RENA N                      '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H AUG N                                                                                                                ENG~EIGNO
ALLAN-Li AL                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JIANGXI  ~                   AAA                                  .~N1                                 AND SANITATION PROJECT
HE NAN   'o,AlN(LAGTAGE
A N,,NLA                                                                  '1150                        'AANFNO UACNYS, )  sFl        IAN,
lixiN   'O   , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JIF                                  UNIII~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~PROVINCE BOUNDAIES
t       NGNAXI                   Y     UR.sA  AN      I-N ItN    \  N                                                                                                                                                               - 1         ONY(IA)BUDRE
TN  [N,,AAL A,   I I LI                          N                     '                                  LAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~  ALANIN~   I,"
'U"',  I'lA  N                                                                                                                               tLUOZA 'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIG, NH TOY  N
II              'LAN L                                                                                             MNLGNG,  1NIA                      A                                                                        ---A--L INTEROAVIONC E    BOUNDARIES          (IST
N    AIA A                           ILA ~LU IAL,
A N,N,'IGI'UEA,,' ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      11NG'
FUNAH ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ NG                                                                     A                                                   I NHAN       
SOUL JAIl' IA' NN~~~~NLXI,ANG   ANNA AL  OLAG  ' '-s'  In HA  /                LU~~~~NOYNim    AONYIIN)BUDRE
4A2,NI 3F LN'G   H                        7 HNjAL A                                            A     A\ MII       10 L'
RUBE!                                 A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1 C                        INO I     I      '            ITl'l-RIER
Alul                                                                                                           YONIANN ON                     NNSF
SOIL All        -                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIANGINIA
LAW  '    I          iRtJIANG                                                                                                             $ 'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,,  ~    YN06NIA
JIZAIAC,                                                                    GUANCQNG                          NN-AA
HI/NA   HA  mp  aspaoucd  yMaSlp  asaLAY  /  aWolGRal
~~~~~.1                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colons, dannminatiens and onyaLIIe~~~~~~~~~- Al nrina , -on shownr
A'                                          N         N~~~~~~~~t N1               HIGNN'Ng
S  TO     NO            ' ~~~~TNSCVN                         -oA T                                           h0N              50U            00
KUOALELLRT  (  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  5'  1AAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21LL 'F  I  LOBONRETERS-                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~ GA     
U'   A  NGGIIL(ALNAAJ  %                                                                                         5W                                   MONGOLIA                      "         '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN   t ASJAG, GLNI
7       " 'N-iL           o' IAI'NLYAL) 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~jj~~~~I 'SI- sAC;LIA  KNC                                                                                                                                                                                      A'
TA I U ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ -'N                                                                                               NLCA
I'                                       '(~~~~~~~M N   ti     H-JAN
IINA LA   '  N3 -  AG'tAGN' TU,AAK                                                                                                           )                                                      '     HN
0-V                                                        f              GUANNGDONGL.
H U                   N  ~  AN ANThi AbN-NAt,  N   (A                                                                                                                                                                             , 1''A
ALAHO    PCINALCN                                           HGANANAAN NNAROSVlIACE}
L  ..................... .L. 
KILMEER  GI5                                                                                                                                             NGa ma 'TF
SICHUAN~~~'NA    t                                                                                                               LGGAN 
LA ING AC                                                                 4                                                                         MONGSOLIAO'-"
NA    I ANn'        LLNG                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UI  
AALGL,,,L,~ ~~ ~ ~~~~SiIA' Al,  NAAK'N                                    ,LNLL GAX  I,                                                                                                   'LL N-SA
TONGCRN                                                                                                                                             LTyNO'RLP. O
ANON                                                         I                          TElL                                                            oe                  ,,   OUAANOAL        UAAUGDONO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN  a-
TN                                                            I                                                                                                  A                                      K      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI
HEHANI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     t                                                                      NSOuET t            I        '-    
WEININ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',OE,                                                                                                                                      NLA;   NAA'
NG ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~         ~        ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       IILAE              ~          U,,,                              NUPLE
___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __                                                             __ __ __ __ __ __ __A_ __ __NG_ __ __ __                                                                  /RE.,    -
/TJN,,HAN6l , ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~MT  U



