Report No. PID7182
Project Name                     China-Fourth Rural Water Supply and (+)
Sanitation Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Project                          CNPE57352
Borrower(s)                      People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee,
China Water Supply and Sanitation National
Project Office
17 Government Street
Changping County
People's Republic of China
Contact person: Mr. Zhang Yiren,
Standing Deputy
Director
Telephone: (86-10) 6974-4468
Fax: (86-10) 6974-4437
Environment Category             B
Date PID Updated                 April 16, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 3, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
In the past decade, China has made significant gains in rural water supply.
Between 1985 and 1997, the number of rural residents with convenient access
to improved water has more than tripled, to over 848 million, or 88.9 percent
of China's 954 million rural people. Of these, approximately 407 million
people (48 percent of those with access to improved water) presently drink
piped water. The remaining 441 million (52 percent of those with access to
improved water) use a variety of other sources, including handpumps, shallow
and deep wells, and rainwater collectors. The preference of Chinese
governmental agencies is for the development of piped systems because of the
added convenience and the ease of controlling water quality.
Having access to an improved water source, however, is not equivalent to
having access to safe water. While almost all piped water systems meet the
government's standards for safe water quality, the same is not true for hand
pumps and other systems. Only about 95 million beneficiaries of non-piped
systems enjoy access to safe water. The remaining 346 million rural
residents use water which is improved, but nevertheless still does not meet
the standards of safe water.
Therefore, despite recent progress, more than 450 million rural Chinese
continue to suffer from unsafe or insufficient water supplies. About 76t of
these are individuals having access to improved water which does not meet the
quality of safe water, while the remaining 24t lack access to any improved
water source. Both of these groups face problems such as water sources with
high pathogen loads due to fecal or other contamination; water with high



levels of naturally occurring fluoride, arsenic, or salts; growing industrial
and agricultural chemical pollution; and seasonal water shortages.
In China, as in other countries, the lack of safe water correlates highly
with poverty. Also positively correlated with poverty are behaviors that
worsen water-related disease. Examples include failure to protect water
sources from contamination, to boil water before drinking, or to wash hands
after using the toilet and before preparing or eating food. As a result,
many poor rural people suffer from common diarrheal diseases and helminth
infections and, more rarely, dysentery, hepatitis, typhoid and cholera.
To maintain momentum gained during the United Nations "International
Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade" (1981-90), in 1991, China set
1995 rural water supply goals at: 35 to 50 percent coverage of drinking
water meeting international quality standards, including 35 to 40 percent of
rural residents receiving piped water supplies. Both goals were met and even
more ambitious goals established for 2000. In its Ninth Five-Year Plan, the
government announced its targets of providing piped water systems for 50t of
China's rural population, and of providing safe water for 85t of all rural
residents and 65t of those residing in China's poorest rural areas by 2000.
However, China differs from many other developing countries in that there is
not a history of the central government providing large subsidies for the
financing of rural water supply and sanitation. Instead, there is greater
emphasis on self-reliance with rural people using their own contributions and
resources to improve their water supply. This financing structure causes
poor rural areas to accurately match their ability to pay with the proper
type of systems and level of service. As a result, China is held up as a
model for other developing countries. Support for capital costs for water
supply is partially provided by the local and/or provincial government.
However, this support cannot not reach all poor rural areas, and multilateral
and bilateral assistance is welcomed by the government.
Health problems caused by the lack of safe water are exacerbated by poor
sanitary conditions in rural China. Traditionally, Chinese households
collect human waste and transport it to the fields for use as fertilizer,
often without further treatment. This practice will undoubtedly continue.
The main objectives of sanitation improvements are therefore to improve the
standard of latrines and to make reuse practices more hygienic. By 1997, 90
percent of rural households had some sort of household latrine, but most of
these facilities are rudimentary at best: they provide temporary storage of
wastes and are unprotected from flies and other insect vectors of disease
transmission. Only 29 percent of the rural population use "sanitary"
latrines, usually defined as latrines with full walls and roof, odorless and
insect-free; an additional 27 percent, primarily in county towns, have access
to composting latrines that promise high rates of pathogen destruction. The
availability of public and school latrines is low, and they rarely meet the
"sanitary" standard.
In recent years, China has made substantial progress in addressing sanitation
issues. Since 1995, the number of households with "sanitary" latrines has
nearly doubled. In the Ninth Five-Year Plan, the government announced the
ambitious goal of establishing "sanitary" latrines for 40t of the rural
population by 2000. Until recently, efforts by the National Patriotic Health
Campaign Committee (NPHCC) to expand the use of improved rural latrines have
-2 -



been decentralized, with most improvements left up to individual provinces or
townships.
Nevertheless, the government has made a concerted effort to promote good
health-related behaviors. In most rural areas, a network of NPHCC workers,
Women's Federation representatives, Youth Leagues, local epidemic prevention
stations, and schools have led health education campaigns encouraging a wide
array of hygienic behaviors. That work, combined with a high literacy rate
(even in poor areas), has led to widespread knowledge of many basic health
behaviors, such as the importance of drinking boiled water.
However, actual behavioral change has been slow to follow, especially in poor
areas where fuel may be scarce and understanding of the link between raw
water or unwashed hands and diarrhea is tenuous. Thus, the problem is more
one of the effectiveness of health messages than of their dissemination:
health education in most rural areas provides little concrete information to
link hygienic behavior to improved health, and most provinces still lack
specialized health education training.
As a result, significant disparities exist between poorer and wealthier rural
counties, both among and within provinces in China. While a number of
wealthier and middle-income rural counties have experienced tremendous
health-related benefits as a result of improvements in water supply and
sanitation, poorer counties with more limited resources have yet to receive
similar benefits and still require additional support in order to carry out
the changes necessary for improved health gains.
2. Objectives
The proposed project aims to reduce the time and cost for people in poor
rural areas to obtain clean, safe water supply, while improving related
sanitation and health behaviors through education and pilot investments. The
principal objective of the project is to provide access to safe, conveniently
located water to 3.1 million poor rural people in Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou, and
Hainan provinces, and to improve related water and sanitation practices. A
supporting objective is to provide the water at the lowest possible cost and
to ensure its sustainability through good maintenance and accounting
practices.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The supply of clean water to rural people is a high priority of the Chinese
government, and past experience shows extremely high willingness to pay by
project beneficiaries.   Even the poorer villagers have a proven good track
record for long-term cost recovery; however, many poor villages cannot afford
the upfront capital costs of constructing even modest systems.    In China,
there is little direct financing for the rural water supply and sanitation
sector from the central government.   Instead, rural people rely mainly on
their own contributions to improve water supply.   The IBRD loan / IDA credit
and government counterpart financing will allow the beneficiary upfront
capital contribution to fall from 100 percent to 25 percent of total
investment, considerably broadening the number of villages able to invest in
safe water supply. Bank involvement thus allows capital costs to be met on a
long-term basis, with most villagers paying no more than 3 percent of annual
income for access to safe water supply. Without the Bank's support, most
-3 -



project villages would not be able to invest in the proposed water supply
improvements by themselves. Bank involvement also ensures that water supply
and treatment plants are more technically sound than might otherwise often be
the case.
Moreover, the Bank can bring international experience to bear on the issues
of health and sanitation education - issues which have been well-covered by
China's mass education campaigns, but need to be more effectively
implemented. Health messages may be better targeted and alternative
sanitation designs may be proposed and implemented as a result of the Bank's
involvement.
4. Description
The project will comprise of the following for each of the three main project
components:
Water Supply: Provision of safe water, suitably financed, to poor
communities currently lacking such supplies. This will include both piped as
well as non-piped systems (i.e. handpumps and rain catchments). Also, in
order to ensure low-cost operation and project sustainability, the project
will provide support for training of water system manager(s), operator(s),
and accountant. Users will be expected to pay for the full cost of the
water, net of government investment.
Sanitation and Health Education: Assistance to ongoing rural sanitation and
health education efforts. This component would work with primary school
teachers, village doctors, Women's Federation representatives, and public
health systems in their efforts to improve water use and sanitation practices
in the villages.   It would support demonstration programs to increase use of
improved latrines; the preparation of health education messages aimed at
expanding the adoption of improved sanitation and hygiene practices among the
target beneficiaries, primarily housewives, school-aged children and
decisionmakers in households; and training of health education specialists in
delivery of those messages.
Project Management: Support to increase project office capacity to provide
services to beneficiary villages. This would include surveys and research on
effective strategies to expand adoption of improved sanitation and convey
health messages. It would encompass training in project management skills
such as procurement, water supply technologies, water quality protection, and
health message delivery.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                                       23
IBRD                                             16
IDA                                              30
Beneficiaries                                     23
Total Project Cost                                92
6. Implementation
Implementation Timetable:
-4-



Past Bank rural water supply projects in China have focused on building
small, primarily piped water systems with an average life span of 15 years.
Total project implementation time would be about 5 years. Approximately 10-
15t of the water systems will begin construction in the first and fifth
years, with higher proportions falling in the middle years. Based on
experience under the National Rural Water Supply project (Cr. N027-CHA), each
year's implementation cycle begins with consultations and village-level
feasibility studies and the development of procurement lists; these annual
work plans are consolidated at the national level and submitted to IDA/IBRD
for review in the fourth quarter of each calendar year, for construction
beginning the first quarter of the following year. This arrangement has
proven quite satisfactory under the NRWS project, and allows ample time for
discussion on any issues that may arise between the Bank and the borrower.
Project supervision would monitor impact with respect to the objectives and
focus on key sector issues such as beneficiary participation in system
design, water plant operator and accountant training, and socioeconomic and
health impacts of the project. Bank Group experience with supervision of the
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) project (Cr. 2336-CHA), which like
the proposed project covers a large number of counties, suggests that
supervision would require about 85 staff-weeks over the life of the project,
of which about 60 staff-weeks would be in the field. The Bank resident
mission will provide initial review of procurement actions. More intensive
supervision would be required during the first three years of the project,
during which time project counties would gain experience with new means of
beneficiary participation and national and international procurement.
Supervision would be provided by financial analysts, water systems engineers,
health and sanitation education specialists, and other specialists as needed.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a mid-term review, to be
undertaken no later than June 1, 2002, will review progress in meeting
project objectives, as reflected by the monitoring indicators. The review
will identify any changes needed to meet those project objectives, including
but not limited to reallocation of funds and commitment of additional
counterpart funds. Also, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
National Project Office (NPO) will (i) prepare, not later than six months
after the Closing Date, or such later date to be agreed with the Bank, a plan
for the future operation of the project; and (ii) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said plan.
Implementing Agencies:
The responsibility for project management and implementation is divided among
national, provincial and county levels. At each level, Leading Groups will
be established to provide policy guidance and advice of an intersectoral
nature. Their responsibilities include: (a) formation and staffing of
project offices; (b) oversight of project offices; (c) resolution of policy
issues that arise during project implementation; and (d) coordination of
project issues across project related government bureaus. The National
Leading Group is headed by the Minister of Health. Provincial Leading Groups
are headed by standing vice-governors responsible for health matters, with at
least two bureau directors as members. County-level Leading Groups are
headed by county magistrates and such bureau directors as the magistrate
deems important to project execution.
Project offices will be established at each level to carry out day-to-day
project implementation, and will be supported by sector institutions, design
- 5 -



institutes and international and national consultants. Their general
responsibilities will include: (a) project design, guidance, coordination,
supervision and evaluation at each administrative level; (b) management of
water supply investments; (c) designing training programs and conducting
national-, provincial- and county-level training in health education and
project management; (d) organizing and delivering procurement of goods and
civil works; (e) conducting mandatory reviews of water system designs; (f)
preparing project progress and financial reports; (g) implementing project
agreements and regulations; and (h) coordinating Bank mission visits and
interaction between the Bank and domestic agencies supporting the
implementation of the project.
County Project Offices (CPOs) have the critical responsibility of soliciting
village interest in improved water supply, helping to design systems
responsive to villager needs, supervising construction, and facilitating
operation and maintenance of completed systems. Design and review of water
schemes will be carried out by either the CPO, Provincial Project Office
(PPO), or the NPO, depending on the size and complexity of the system. If a
scheme serves only a single village, then responsibility for the operations
of the scheme lies with the village government; if it serves multiple
villages, then responsibility lies with the township government. Finally, if
it should run across townships, then responsibility lies with the county
government. CPOs, PPOs, and the NPO will all be responsible for supervision
of water schemes. Design of training programs and conducting courses for
water plant staff and local health and hygiene education workers will be the
responsibility of CPOs. Training of CPO staff is the responsibility of the
PPO, while that of PPO staff is the responsibility of the NPO.
As in previous rural water supply projects in China, procurement of materials
and equipment will be handled through annual International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) contracts, and procurement of civil works will be handled
through numerous small and medium, and a few large civil works contracts
(National Competitive Bidding and by invitation). In this project, the
responsibility for ICB procurement will continue to rest with the NPO. As in
the third (NRWS) project, the materials and equipment schedules for ICB will
be based on preliminary designs for the sub-projects prepared for the
following year, to ensure goods supplied match the operating conditions on
site.
7. Sustainability
Local government funding and beneficiary financing through water tariffs
provide a framework for project sustainability. The virtual absence of
direct central government financing for the rural water supply and sanitation
sector distinguishes China from most other developing countries. Water
plants constructed under this project are maintained as independent systems,
with tariffs set at a rate to cover the original investment and repay the
loan. For most villagers, these tariffs are usually less than 3 percent of
their annual gross per capita income. Benefiting villagers are expected to
pay between 75 and 100 percent of the water supply capital costs. This
payment is broken down as follows: a total of 25 percent of the costs are
recovered from an upfront contribution consisting of cash and in-kind labor
and materials contribution (typically totaling 10 to 15 percent of capital
costs); another 50 percent of the capital costs are captured through tariffs;
and a further repayment of up to an additional 25 percent may also be
- 6 -



incurred by villagers depending on the percentage of the local government
contribution passed down through tariffs. In most instances in the first
three projects, this arrangement has demonstrated high levels of
sustainability. That would be enhanced under the current project through
increased villager participation, better construction supervision and more
intensive training of plant operators and managers.
Previous experience has shown that sanitation costs often exceed villagers'
willingness to pay. This project will take steps toward ensuring
replicability in this area by identifying higher-income households willing to
invest in improved sanitation, and by using sanitation education to induce
increases in willingness to pay. Health education financed by the project
would be integrated with existing government-led programs, and would focus on
sustainable behavioral change rather than on simply delivering messages to a
target number of people.
On the institutional side, project training would provide the project offices
with a foundation for efficient, cost-effective operation of the investment
program. Efficient water supply system operation would benefit from training
and institutional support in finance and water plant operation and
management. Surveys to establish monitoring indicators and baseline
conditions will provide valuable information, both for educators targeting
health and sanitation messages and for measuring the benefits of this
project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Cost recovery: Earlier projects established that Chinese villagers, even in
poor areas, would contribute capital and pay tariffs sufficient to finance
safe and convenient water supply. Furthermore, despite abandoning collective
farming, the village collective management structure remains sufficiently
robust to manage water systems. The Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department's evaluation of the first China rural water project financed by
IDA confirmed that finding, as well as financial and health benefits from
water supply investments. The second (RWSS) project was completed in
December 1998. From this, we expect to obtain some quantification of the
levels of cost recovery. Identified weaknesses in both projects include
occasional excess optimism, hence system overdesign, and the need to improve
quality through increased project office supervision of design and
construction. Measures will be taken in this project to ensure that these
weaknesses are corrected. The economic analysis for the NRWS project, as
well as interviews with potential beneficiaries, showed that even the poorest
villagers consider the health gains from clean water supply well worth the
minimal upfront costs. Nearly all villagers are able and willing to pay for
such investments. Despite some weaknesses in a limited number of sub-
projects, overall, by international standards, water supply projects in China
are extraordinary in their cost recovery and sustainability.
Need for greater focus on education rather than physical sanitation
investments: Experience from earlier projects suggest the importance of
focusing efforts on health and hygiene education, rather than physical
sanitation investments, as a means of inducing behavioral change. This will
be followed in this project.
Need for realistic expectations in terms of behavioral change:
- 7 -



Although basic health knowledge is fairly widespread, behavior in rural areas
often does not match that knowledge. Experience from the previous projects
suggests that even with higher quality education efforts, actual behavioral
change can be a slow process. Slow progress in changing behavior does not
invalidate health education efforts. A peer reviewer for the NRWS project
pointed out that, "on a dollar-to-dollar basis, it costs less to achieve
health benefits from sanitation and health education than from making water
available." Previous projects in China as well as others worldwide have
demonstrated the importance of careful targeting and very specific health
messages, rather than general injunctions to behave well. This project will
build on the experience acquired in the previous three projects in China, and
continue to support the use of monitoring indicators and baseline surveys to
help refine health messages and their delivery, thereby increasing the
efficiency of these efforts.
Need for strong project management at the national, provincial, and local
levels:
Previous experience has shown that the most successful Bank-financed projects
in China have a strong commitment from the borrower as well as strong leading
groups and strong Project Management Offices (PMOs) at the national,
provincial, and local levels. The PMOs must be staffed with qualified,
experienced, and competent staff in the key areas of engineering,
procurement, accounting/finance, and sanitation and health education. This
project will ensure that the same requirements for project management are
kept at all levels.   Development of the capacity of PMOs at all levels will
be addressed through training workshop programs during project preparation
and implementation.
Need for measures to safeguard against overdesign of water systems:
In the RWSS project, a limited number of water systems were overdesigned,
with negative effects for cost recovery. This was because in the RWSS
project, the criteria for system design were determined on an ad hoc basis.
To correct for this problem, for the NRWS project, the design manual was
updated and required to be followed. Also, increased emphasis was placed on
rigorous review of designs to ensure that they are realistic with actual
local consumption needs, and World Bank monitoring of the review process was
increased. This project will follow those measures taken by the NRWS
project.
Need for quality maintenance:
Another lesson gathered from the RWSS project was that of the necessity to
provide training in operations and finance to local water plant staff in
order to maintain the quality of each individual scheme. In the RWSS
project, funding for such training was not included in the project and had to
come out of local government budgets. As a result, training in some
instances was inadequate, and the quality of the investment was not always
successfully maintained. This was corrected in the NRWS project, with the
inclusion of project funding for local training, and will continue in the
current project as well.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     This project is a targeted
intervention program, as its beneficiaries are located primarily in poor
rural areas. The main program objective categories for this project are
environmentally sustainable development (50%) and poverty alleviation (50%).
- 8 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         No major environmental issues exist with this project.    The
balance of the environmental impact is substantially positive; however,
potential adverse impacts from construction or a failure to protect water
supply sources require the classification of the project as Category B in
terms of the Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment. The project
relies on a thorough review and supervision process to ensure that these
environmental concerns are addressed. Measures for water source protection
included in feasibility studies for water system designs and frequent water
quality testing during implementation will ensure early identification of any
problems.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 4, 1999.
-9-



ANNEX
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
- 10 -



