Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3233 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4485 CHA
Project Agreement
(Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANHUI PROVINCE
FUJIAN PROVINCE 
GUIZHOU PROVINCE and  
HAINAN PROVINCE
Dated September 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3233 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4485 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1999 among the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) and Anhui Province, Fujian Province, Guizhou Province and Hainan Province 
(the Project Provinces).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000) on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to sixteen 
million dollars ($16,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in this Agreement 
(except in Section 5.03), reference to the Association, the Credit or the Credit 
Account shall also be deemed as reference to the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account, 
respectively. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, sanitation, health, engineering and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Provinces shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.  
Section 2.03. Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to 
in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan 
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and its Respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or 
the performance by such Province of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its 
Respective Part of the Project of the departments or agencies of such Project Province 
responsible for carrying out parts of the Project in its territory.
(b)
Each Project Province shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  3
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Each Project Province shall: 
(a)
have the records and accounts for any water plant facility within its 
territory in which investments in an amount greater than Yuan 5,000,000 equivalent 
have been made under Part A of the Project, audited at the end of its first full 
fiscal year of operation in accordance with auditing principles consistently applied 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case no later 
than six (6) months after the end of such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.03.  In respect of each water supply facility under Part A of the 
Project within its respective territory, each Project Province shall, commencing not 
later than the second full fiscal year of operations of such facility, ensure that 
water charges will be established and collected annually at a level sufficient to 
cover administrative costs, operation and maintenance costs and taxes, plus the 
greater of (a) interest charges and depreciation, or (b) debt service payments. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, or under the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
Page  4
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Anhui Province:
Anhui Provincial Government
85 Chang Jing Road
Hefei  23001
Anhui Province
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
1818
For Fujian Province:
Fujian Provincial Government 
76 Hualin Road Fuzhou 350003 
Fujian Province 
People's Republic of China
For Guizhou Province: 
Guizhou Provincial 
Government Provincial 
Government Headquarters Ba Jiao Tan Guiyang 55004 
Guizhou Province 
People's Republic of China
For Hainan Province: 
Hainan Provincial 
Government 59 Haifu Road 
Haikou 570203 
Hainan Province 
People's Republic of China
 Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice-Governor of said Project 
Province, or by such other person or persons as such Governor or Vice-Governor shall 
designate in writing, and said Project Province shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to any 
of the Project Provinces and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not 
have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
Page  5
(a)
the obligations of each Project Province to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, each of the Project Provinces shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations 
are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant  to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
ANHUI PROVINCE  
FUJIAN PROVINCE 
GUIZHOU PROVINCE 
HAINAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program For the 
Provincial Parts of the Project
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below. Project 
Management
1.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain its PPO; and
(b)
cause its respective Project Counties each to maintain its CPO, in each 
case staffed with qualified personnel in adequate number, and with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, including the organization, 
implementation and supervision of the carrying out of the Provincial Parts of the 
Project at the levels of the Project Provinces and Project Counties.  
2.
(a)
Each Project Province shall, by October 15 of each year, starting in 
1999, submit to the NPO, for it to review, consolidate into an AWP and furnish to the 
Association in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(c)(i) of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement, a comprehensive annual work plan for the 
implementation of the Provincial Parts of the Project within its territory during the 
following calendar year, including resettlement inventories or action plans, as shall 
be required by the Resettlement Policy Framework.
Page  6
(b)
Each Project Province shall ensure that all investments under Part A of 
the Project that are included in such annual work plans shall meet the technical 
standards of the Design Manual.
(c)
Each Project Province shall ensure that resettlement inventories and 
action plans: 
(i)
shall be prepared on the basis of the policies and procedures set 
out in the 
Resettlement Policy Framework; and 
(ii)
shall be satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
Each Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with each AWP (including, as the case may be, resettlement inventories or 
action plans), which has been accepted by the Association pursuant to paragraph 
1(c)(ii) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association. Without limitation upon the foregoing, if the Respective Part of 
the Project would involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, each Project 
Province shall ensure that all such persons shall be resettled prior to commencing any 
works under said Respective Part of the Project, in accordance with a resettlement 
inventory or action plan prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2(c) 
of this Schedule 1, satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Each Project Province shall through its respective PPO: (a) appraise all 
investments under Part A of the Project as included in any annual work plan referred 
to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule within its respective territory with an estimated 
value of more than Yuan 500,000 but not exceeding  Yuan 3,000,000, and review in 
particular the quality of the engineering and financial preparation and the overall 
feasibility of such proposed investments; and (b) submit all such investments under 
Part A of the Project with an estimated value of more than Yuan 3,000,000 to the NPO 
for appraisal in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.  
5.
For all investments under Part A of the Project with an estimated value of more 
than Yuan 500,000, the relevant county quality assurance office shall verify that 
construction practices and standards have met design specifications and the technical 
standards of the Design Manual. 
6.
Each Project Province shall cause its Project Counties, through their respective 
CPOs, to complete the baseline survey under Part C.2 of the Project for villages 
within its territory will be receiving water under Part A of the Project in the year 
2000, and, by December 1, 1999, provide a copy of their final reports to NPO.
7.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project (including 
the implementation of the Resettlement Policy Framework) and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof within its territory; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the NPO for its consolidation and submission to the Association, a 
semi-annual report summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 7(a) of this Schedule, and setting forth physical and 
financial progress in the carrying out of its respective part of the Provincial Parts 
of the Project during the periods ending on June 30 and December 31 of each year, with 
the first such period to end on June 30, 2000 and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of such parts of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof during the next semi-annual period following such date; such 
reports shall be submitted within one month following the end of the relevant 
reporting period. Notwithstanding the above, the report to be submitted not later than 
July 31, 2000 shall cover the two immediately preceding semi-annual periods.
Page  7
