Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3233 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3233 CHA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000) (the Loan);  
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; 
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and by Anhui Province, 
Fujian Province, Guizhou Province and Hainan Province (Project Provinces) with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Project Provinces the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and the Project Provinces; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows; 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such 
countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in this 
Agreement: 
(a)
“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui, and any successor 
thereto.
(b)
“AWP” means the consolidated annual work plan for the implementation of 
the Project in each calendar year, prepared by NPO pursuant to paragraph 1(c)(i) of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
(c)
“CPOs” means the project offices in the Project Counties referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and “CPO” means any of the CPOs. 
(d)
“Category” and Categories” means one or more categories set out in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(e)
“Design Manual” means the “China Rural Water Supply Engineering, Planning 
and Design Manual” containing technical standards for the design of rural water supply 
investments, dated June 1998 and referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be revised by agreement among the Borrower, the 
Association and the Project Provinces.
(f)
“Front-end fee” means the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of the Loan 
Agreement, payable by the Borrower on effectiveness of the Loan Agreement. 
(g)
“Fujian” means the Borrower’s Province of Fujian, and any successor 
thereto. 
Page  3
(h)
“Guizhou” means the Borrower’s Province of Guizhou, and any successor 
thereto.  
(i)
“Hainan” means the Borrower’s Province of Hainan, and any successor 
thereto.
(j)
“NPO” means the National Project Office referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(k)
“PPOs” means the project offices in the Project Provinces, referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and “PPO” means any of the PPOs. 
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith among the 
Association, the Bank and the Project Provinces as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement. 
(m)
“Project Counties” means the counties in each Project Province selected 
by agreement among the Borrower, the Association and the Project Provinces to 
participate in the Project. 
(n)
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou and 
Hainan; and “Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces. 
(o)
“Provincial Parts of the Project” means Parts A, B, C.1(b) and C.2 of the 
Project. 
(p)
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the “Policy Framework for 
Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons”, dated 
February 9, 1999, approved by the Borrower and the Project Provinces, which sets out 
the policies and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation 
for the implementation of the Project, and the reporting and monitoring arrangements 
to ensure compliance with such policies and procedures. 
(q)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the activities to be carried out by said Project Province under the 
Provincial Parts of the Project.
(r)
“Special Accounts” means the four (4) accounts referred to and designated 
in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; “Special Account” means any of the Special 
Accounts. 
(s)
“Yuan” and “Y” mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars the following four (4) special deposit accounts in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment: 
(i) one such account for purposes of Anhui’s Respective Part of the Project (Anhui’s 
Special Account); (ii) one such account for the purposes of Fujian’s Respective Part 
of the Project (Fujian’s Special Account); (iii) one such account for purposes of 
Guizhou’s Respective Part of the Project (Guizhou’s Special Account) and (iv) one such 
Page  4
account for purposes of Hainan’s Respective Part of the Project (Hainan’s Special 
Account).  Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2009, and ending February 15, 
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2019, 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(i)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not 
yet due until the principal amount of the 
Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(ii)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the 
Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association 
notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
Page  5
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Parts C.1(a) and Part C.2 of the Project with due 
diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial 
and engineering standards and practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such 
Parts 
of the Project; and 
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the 
Project Provinces to perform all of 
their respective 
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Project 
Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit  to be 
taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts C.1(a) and C.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province for the 
purpose of implementing the Provincial Parts of the Project, part of the proceeds of 
the Credit on the following principal terms:-
(a)
The principal amount so made available to each Project Province: 
(i) shall be the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date, or respective 
dates, of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn on account of the cost of goods and services required for said 
Project Province’s Respective Part of the Project, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit (the Credit Amount) and (ii) shall be recovered by the Borrower 
in a currency other than Yuan, in an amount equivalent to the Credit Amount 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment). 
(b)
The Borrower shall recover the Credit Amount from said Project Province 
in semi-annual installments payable over a period of 17 years, inclusive of a grace 
period of 5 years. 
(c)
The Borrower shall collect from each Project Province: (i) a commitment 
fee on the principal amount of the Credit so made available and not withdrawn from 
time to time, at a rate which shall not exceed one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum; and (ii) a service charge on the Credit Amount withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, at a rate which shall not exceed three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  6
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
Project Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project 
objectives; and  
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.(a)  The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts C.1(a) and C.2 of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
(including those for the Special Accounts) for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expneditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the la st 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  7
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditures 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and  
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project Province will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following event is specified as an additional matter, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Project 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province and is legally 
binding upon each Project Province in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN Beijing 
Page  8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
For Anhui’s 
Respective Part of
the Project:
(a) Works 
  2,080,000
   1,720,000
41%
(b) Goods 
  3,760,000
   3,100,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
75% of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(c) Consultants’ 
services 
     70,000
 -
100%
(d) Training and 
study tours 
    490,000
 -
100%
Page  9
(e) Incremental 
Costs
    360,000
 -
100%
(2)
For Fujian’s 
Respective Part
of the Project:
(a) Works 
  1,660,000
   1,370,000
44%
(b) Goods 
  2,530,000
   2,080,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
75% of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(c) Consultants’ 
services 
      70,000
 -
100%
(d) Training and 
study tours 
     310,000
 -
100%
(e) Incremental 
Costs
     250,000
 -
100%
(3)
For Guizhou’s
 
Respective Part of
 the 
Project:
(a) Works 
   1,810,000
    1,490,000
39%
(b) Goods 
   3,220,000
    2,630,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
75% of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(c) Consultants’ 
services 
      70,000
 -
100%
(d) Training and 
study tours 
     390,000
 -
100%
(e) Incremental 
Costs
     310,000
 -
100%
(4)
For Hainan’s 
Respective Part 
of the Project:
(a) Works 
   1,140,000
    1,140,000
43%
(b) Goods 
   2,800,000
    2,310,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
75% of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(c) Consultants’ 
services 
      70,000
 -
100%
Page  10
(d) Training and 
study tours 
     320,000
 -
100%
(e) Incremental 
Costs
     230,000
 -
100%
(5)
Front-end fee
-
      160,000
TOTAL
  22,200,000
   16,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods and services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Incremental Costs” means the cost of travel, accommodation, 
meals and printing of survey and training materials incurred by CPOs in connection 
with: (i) the carrying out of surveys under Part C.2 of the Project; and (ii) training 
to be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $140,000 for expenditures in respect of Categories (1)(c), (1)(d), 
(1)(e), (2)(c), (2)(d), (2)(e), (3)(c), (3)(d), (3)(e), (4)(c), (4)(d) and (4)(e), on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 24, 1999; 
and expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) until the AWP for the year 
2000 has been approved by the Association, in accordance with paragraph 1(c) of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association and the Bank may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and 
the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each;  
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $ 2,500,000 equivalent each;  
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with consulting firms or 
individuals costing less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, 
respectively; and 
(d)
training, study tours and Incremental Costs, regardless of the costs 
thereof,  all under such terms and conditions as the Association and the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve access to safe 
water for the rural population and the health and sanitation practices of the rural 
poor in the Project Provinces through: (i) the construction of safe water supply 
systems; (ii) the provision of related health education; (iii) the provision of 
sanitation information and demonstration facilities; and (iv) the strengthening of 
water supply, sanitation and health education management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  11
Part A:
Water Supply  
1.
Construction of piped water supply systems, rain water collectors, wells with 
handpumps and related facilities under investment programs in the Project Counties. 
2.
Development of the capacity of villagers to operate and financially manage water 
supply systems through the provision of training.
Part B:
Sanitation and Health Education 
1.
Improvement of water related health and sanitation practices of the rural 
population, through provision of health education to:   
(a)
key community leaders and health practitioners at the provincial, county 
and village levels; and 
(b)
the population of the Project Counties. 
2.
Construction of demonstration household and village school sanitation facilities 
in villages in the Project Counties.
Part C:
Project Management
1.
Strengthening of the management, design, supervision, monitoring and reporting 
capacities of:  (a) the National Project Office, and (b) project offices in the 
Project Provinces and Project Counties, through the provision of consultants’ 
services, training, equipment and the carrying out of works.  
2.
Carrying out of baseline and follow-up surveys in villages of the Project 
Counties to measure and evaluate access to safe water as well as sanitation and health 
behavior and practices, through the provision of consultants’ services and training. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the NPO, staffed with qualified personnel in 
adequate numbers and with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the NPO shall be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision 
of Project execution; 
(b) 
the NPO shall appraise all investments under the investment programs 
under Part A of the Project with an estimated value of more than Yuan 3,000,000, and 
review, in particular, the quality of the engineering and financial preparation and 
the overall design and feasibility of such proposed investments;
(c)
the NPO shall: (i) by November 30 of each year, starting in 1999, prepare 
and furnish to the Association for its review and comments, a consolidated annual work 
plan for Project implementation activities to be carried out during the following 
calendar year, which plan shall be prepared on the basis of, among others, annual work 
plans prepared by the Project Provinces (including resettlement inventories and action 
plans as may be required by the Resettlement Policy Framework) in accordance with 
paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and (ii) afford the Association 
a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with NPO on said AWP and, thereafter, 
promptly inform each Project Province of such AWP as shall have been accepted by the 
Association; and 
(d)
the NPO shall analyze and consolidate the outputs resulting from the 
carrying out by the Project Provinces of Part C.2 of the Project and shall furnish 
such consolidated outputs to the Association for review and comments by January 1, 
Page  12
2000, for baseline surveys carried out by the Project Provinces pursuant to paragraph 
6 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
2.
Any revision to an AWP shall be submitted to the Association for its review and 
prior approval. 
3.
The Resettlement Policy Framework shall not be modified or revised without the 
prior concurrence of the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by March 15 and August 31 of each year, starting August 
31, 2000, for the immediately preceding six (6) month period ending December 31 and 
June 30, respectively (and in the case of the first report to be submitted pursuant to 
this sub-paragraph (b), for the two immediately preceding six (6) month periods) a 
consolidated semi-annual report integrating the information provided in the reports 
submitted by the PPOs pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(c)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association by March 15, 2002, a consolidated report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
4(a) of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by June 1, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 4(c) of this Schedule, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Page  13
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Except as provided in Part C.2 and C.3 of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $21,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors, and for contracts estimated to cost more than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, from three (3) contractors from at least two different 
counties, in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully.
3.
Force Account 
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $20,000 equivalent or less per assignment, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $4,000,000 equivalent may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried 
out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping 
Health education materials estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with Part B of Section I of this Schedule, and (ii) the first contract for works under 
Part A of the Project for each Project County but only if such contract is procured in 
accordance with Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  14
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods under Part B.1 of the 
Project for each Project Province, (ii) the first contract for works under Part A of 
the Project for each Project County procured in accordance with Parts C.2 or C.3 of 
Section I of this Schedule, and (iii) a maximum of ten (10) contracts per year for 
works procured in accordance with Parts C.2 or C.3 of Section I of this Schedule and 
selected at the discretion of the Association in addition to the works contracts that 
are subject to prior review pursuant to paragraph 2(b)(ii) of this Part D, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor under 
shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the 
comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provision of the 
following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 
and 1.8 of the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Part C.1 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part C.1 of the Project, which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Page  15
Services for the study of procurement document review under Part C.1 of the 
Project, which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means in respect of each of the four (4) 
Special Accounts, the respective Categories set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, in respect of each of the four 
(4) Special Accounts, the respective amount set forth as the Authorized Allocation for 
each Special Account in the Annex to this Schedule, to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule as the “Initial Deposit” in respect of the Authorized 
Amount until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Page  16
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of the amount set forth in said 
Annex as the “Aggregate Amount” in respect of said Authorized Allocation.  
2.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for said Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
Page  17
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
said Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General 
Conditions applicable thereto.
