Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11448
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MEDIUM CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1186-ME)
SECOND MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1913-ME)
AND
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
(LOAN 2281-ME)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit         = Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00               =    $12.50  (1972)
"  =    $25.60  (1980)
"  =    $18.00  (1973-80)
= $2,267.50  (1990)
=   $507.00  (1982-90)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet
kilometer (km)             =   0.62 miles
PRINCIPLE ACRONYMS USED
BC             -   Beneficiary Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
Companies
BANOBRAS       -   National Bank of Public Works and Service.
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.A.)
CAVM           -   Valley of Mexico Water Commission (Comi.ifn de
Agua del Valle de Mexico)
CEAPAS         -   Sinaloa State Water Board (Comisi6n Estatal de
Aqua Potable y Alcantarillado de Sinaloa)
CNA            -   National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional
de Agua)
DIGESAPA       -   General Directorate of Water Supply and
Sewerage Systems (Direcci6n General de
Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado)
FIFAPA         -   Investment Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage
Works (Fondo Fiduciario para Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado)
MCMA           -   Mexico City Metropolitan Area
PIU            -   Project Implementation Unit
RCs            -   Regional Companies to be integrated into
CEAPAS
SAHOP          -   Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public
Works (Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y
Obras Publicas)
SARH           -   Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources (Secretaria de Agricultura y
Recursos Hidr&ulicos)
SEDUE          -   Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
SRH            -   Secretariat for Hydraulic Resources
(Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos)
UNDP           -   United Nations Development Programme
WSS            -   Water Supply and Sewerage



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico
Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1186-ME)
Second Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1913-ME)
Third Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Proiect (Loan 2281-ME)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Mexico - Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1186-ME),
Second Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1913-ME) and Third
Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2281-ME)" prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The physical elements of the projects were successfully implemented,
albeit with significant delays.  Public health and environmental conditions
improved in all project cities.   On the other hand, the creation of an
appropriate institutional context (including coherent sectoral norms) was
undermined by frequent organizational changes and inadequate inter-agency
coordination. Furthermore, the important objective of replacing government grant
financing for urban water and sewerage projects by loan financing, coupled by
systematic cost recovery, was not achieved. A number of cities withdrew from the
projects given the availability of alternative (grant) funding.
The first two projects are rated unsatisfactory. The third project, in
an  improved  policy  environment,   is  rated  as  marginally  successful.
Sustainability of all those projects is rated as uncertain.
While much delayed, the Project Completion Report is of good quality.
Part II, the borrower's comments, is refreshingly frank on the institutional
problems of the sector. The three projects are being audited as a cluster.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL dutles. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT lPCR)
MEDIUM CITIES WATZR SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT  (LOAN 1186-MEI
SECOND MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1913-ME}
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT (LOAN 2281-MEl
Table of Contents
Paae No.
Preface ........................................................ 1
Evaluation Summary .............................................                             iii
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...............                               1
Identity .............................................                             1
Background ...........................................                             1
Preparation ..........................................                             5
Implementation .......................................                           18
Financial Performance ................................                           31
Project Results ......................................                           32
Sustainability .......................................                           35
Performance ..........................................                           35
Project Relationships ................................                           38
Consulting Services ..................................                           38
Documentation and Data ...............................                           38
Lessons Learned ......................................                           39
PART II. BORROWER REVIEW OF THE PROJECT .......................                                41
Section I.    BANOBRAS Comments on Draft PCR  (6/22/92) .......                            41
Section II. Summary of Final Project Report Prepared
by BANOBRAS and SEDUE ........................                         43
Background ...........................................                           43
Analysis of the Project ..............................                           44
Execution, Operation, and Project Costs ..............                           45
Institutional Performance ............................                           47
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..............................                               49
1. Related Bank Loans ................................                           49
2. Project Timetable .................................                           50
3. Actual Cost & Source of Financing .................                            51
4. Actual & Forecast Disbursement Timetable ..........                            54
5. Allocation of Proceeds: Appraisal,  Revised,  Actual                          55
6. Project Implementation                 ..8...........                          S
7. Use of Bank Resources .............................                           65
8. Status of Covenants ...............................                           70
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MEDIUM CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1186-MEI
SECOND MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1913-MEl
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT (LOAN 2281-Nil
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for three
related projects aimed at Improving and extending water supply and sewerage
services in medium-size cities in Mexico:
-    MEDIUM CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT for which Loan
1186-ME in the amount of US$40 million was approved on December 18,
1975. The Borrower was the National Bank of Public Works and
Services (BANOBRAS)t the executing agency was the Secretariat of
Hydraulic Resources (SRH), which was reorganized in 1976 as the
Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP). Almost
all of the loan (99.5%) was disbursed. The loan was closed on
January 14, 1984, four years beyond the date estimated at
appraisal, and the undisbursed balance of US$0.21 million was
canceled. The last disbursement was on May 23, 1984.
-    SECOND MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT for
which Loan 1913-ME in the amount of US$125 million was approved on
October 4, 1980. The Borrower was BANOBRAS; the executing agency
was SAHOP, which was reorganized in 1982 as the Secrtarilat of
Urban Development (SEDUE). About 60.6% of the proceeds of the Loan
were disbursed. The loan was closed on November 30, 1986, about
two years after the date estimated at appraisal, and the
undisbursed balance of US$49.27 million was canceled. The last
disbursement was on August 31, 1987.
-    THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT for which
Loan 2281-ME in the amount of US$100.3 million was approved on May
17, 1983. The Borrower was BANOBRAS; the executing agency was
SEDUE. About 95% of the Loan was disbursed. The loan was closed
on April 30, 1991, four months beyond the date estimated at
appraisal, and the undisburs-d balance of US$5.03 million was
canceled. The last disbursement was on March 13, 1991.
With respect to costs, implementation periods, etc., this
PCR treats the three projects separately, not as a single project, as they
were presented to the Board as individual projects. However, Bank and Mexican
officials came to think of the separate projects as parts of a single OFIFAPA*
operation -- "FIFAPA" being the acronym for a funding device comon to all
three projects, the Investment Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works. Bank
and Mexican officials referred to the projects as FIFAPA I, 1I, and III, and
had no trouble distinguishing between the projects and the financing
'mechanism.



I



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MEDIUM CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1186-MEt
SECOND MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1913-ME)
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT (LOAN 2281-MEl
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Description.  Between December 1975 and May-1983, the Bank approved
three loans, amounting to US$265.3 million (1186-ME, 1913-ME, and 2281-ME), to
help finance three water/sewerage projects, consisting of a heterogeneous
collection of water supply and sewerage (WSS) works for medium size cities. The
projects consisted of: water, construction, installation, rehabilitation, or
improvement, as appropriate,  of wells, storage tanks, treatment facilities,
transmission and distribution pipe, house connections, and water metersl and
sawerace, construction, rehabilitation, or improvement, as appropriate, of
pumping stations, treatment facilities, lines, interceptors, and house
connections. Also included in the projects were miscellaneous equipment, leak
detection programs, and accounting programs (paras. 3.11, 3.27, and 3.40).
2.         Because these three projects relied on the same financing facility,
the Investment Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works (FIFAPA) established at
the National Bank for Public Works (BANOBRAS), and because they closely followed
(1975, 1980, 1983) and resembled each other, Bank and Mexican officials adopted
the practice of referring to them as FIFAPA I, II, and III rather than using
their longer, official titles.
3.        Borrower. Imolementina Aaencyv  and Beneficiaries.  Not only did the
projects resemble one another with respect to works, but also with respect to:
(i) borrower, executing agency, and beneficiaries (paras. 3.07, 3.24, and 3.36);
and (Li) objectives, issues, and financing arrangements (paraz. 3.04-3.06; 3.16-
3.17; and 3.34-3.35).   The loan for the first FIFAPA project  (FIFAPA I)
established the pattern followed by subsequent loans as to parties to the project
("institutional arrangements"). The borrower was BANOBRAS; the executing agency
was the Secretariat for Hydraulic Resources (SRH)v the Federal water planning/
construction agency at the time when the loan was prepared; the beneficiaries
were a shifting group of medium-size  cities.   The executing agency was
restructured and renamed several times during project execution. In 1976, SRH
was succeeded by the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP);
and in 1982, SAHOP was succeeded by the Secretariat of Urban Development and
Ecology (SEDUE) (paraz. 2.07; and 2.10-2.13).
4.        ibictives. Izszaes  and Financina Arrancoments.  FIFAPA I established
the physical and other objectives followed by FIFAPA II and III (paras. 3.04-
3.06; 3.16-3.17; and 3.34-3.35). The physical objective of the FIFAPA projects
was to extend and improve WSS services in medium-size cities.   The other
objectives of FIFAPA I -- financial, economic, and institutional -- includaed (a)
introducing the concept of loan financing, as opposed to grant funds, to finance
WSS works; (b) substituting "realistic tariffs" based on the concept of cost
recovery for tariffs based on the concept of water as a "social" good; (c)
establishing a suitable financial mechanism to channel and recuperate funds for
works; (d) introducing the use of technical, economic and financial criteria in



- iii -
the selection of WSS project.; and (e) improving the operational, adminiotrative
and technical capacity of sector institutions at both the national and municipal
levels. FIFAPA II, building on FIFAPA I, aimed at the organizational objective
of decentralizing the sector by traneferring Federal responsibilitieo to state
and municipalities. The objectives of FIFAPA III largely paralleled those of
FIFAPA II.
5.        FIFAPA I addressed very contentious issues for the state and municipal
governments in a country used to "free" water that tariffs should cover costs and
that interest-bearing loans should replace grants.   For the Bank and the
Government, the projects provided a unique opportunity for innovation. As such,
the first project was responsible for creating the FIFAPA trust fund, a revolving
fund that provided loan funds on the basis of cost-recovery and municipal
commitment to the concept of financial self-reliance (para. 3.08).  It also
provided a basis for subsequent operations in the second and third projects. The
third project included a pilot health education component which was intended to
serve as a model for replication throughout the country.
6.        Implementation Experience.  FIFAPA I began in 1976 and ended in 1984,
almost four and a half years behind schedule (para. 4.02). FIFAPA II began in
1981 and ended in 1986, two years late (para. 4.16). FIFAPA III began in 1984
and ended in 1990, about a year late (para. 4.24). To complete FIFAPA I without
further extension of the closing date, the Bank agreed to shift remaining civil
works under construction to FIFAPA II and procurement of materials (amounting to
US$8.3 million) from FIFAPA II to FIAPAP I (para. 4.14). There was also a shift
of works under FIFAPA II to FIFAPA III prior to the closing of Loan 1913-ME
(para. 4.23).
7.        The difficulties of FIFAPA  I were  somewhat  redue d  in the two
subsequent projects, but not eliminated. Prior to 1979,the progress of FIFAPA
I was hampered because of the considerable time required by the executing agency
(SRH/SAHOP -- para. 3) to complete the evaluation of subprojects and because of
the reluctance by locai authorities to adjust tariffs, and to accept least-cost
alternatives  (paras. 4.04).   Implementation was also regularly hampered by
jurisdictional disputes between the implementing agency and BANOBRAS and by
staffing problems at the agencies. From 1979 to mid 1982, project progress was
satisfactory due to personnel changes at SAHOP suggeoted by the Bank and due to
the contracting of consultants by SAHOP to prepare appraisal reports based on
least-cost principles.  Due to sharp reductions in budgetary allocations for
FIFAPA in 1982 and non-payments of contractors, the execution of FIFAPA I and II
was effectively paralyzed for several months in 1982-3. After implementation was
resumed in the second half of 1983, there were difficult discussions betw  n
BANOBRAS and the boneficiaries in connection with the renegotiation of subloan
agreements. Renegotiation was required because of high inflation and frequent
devaluations of the peso (para-. 4.18-4.19)1 hence, the subloans, which had been
negotiated in a fixed amount of pesos, did not cover tho total subproject costs.
Moreover, because the executing agency had carried out the contracting function
without the participation of the beneficiaries, the beneficiaries were reluctant
to increase their indebtedness, as they regarded the cost increases as overruns
to a fixed-cost contracts rather than as legitimate price adjustments for
inflation.
8.        Inadequate  information  also  hampered  project  implementation.
Information to assome the financial performance of the sub-borrowers was



- iv -
unreliable and incomplete, mainly due to three recurrent problems among the
beneficiaries: (a) poor institutional capabilities which the project aimed at
improving; (b) a lack of experience in reporting to federal agencies and;
(c) lack of a sense of ownership of the project, which itself stood in the way
of reporting to a central agency, either state or federal (paras. 3.24 and 3.36).
9.        The timing of the loans also led to implementation difficulties.  The
first and third loans were declared effective shortly before new administrations
took office in Mexico. While the Bank had explicitly noted the risks involved
with proceeding with these operations at a time of change in government, it was
decided that establishing the concept of cost-recovery and strengthening the
institutional capacity of the beneficiaries were sufficiently important to sector
development to justify the assumption of these risks. Moreover, the Bank also
concluded that, instead of interrupting or postponing lending operations to
accommodate administrative modifications and delays, these issues could
adequately be tackled during project implementation.
10.       In 1982, SEDUE succeeded SAHOP as the executing agency, and as a
result of this development, there were major organizational and personnel changes
in the executing agency. In 1983 and 1984, there was some project progress, but
in 1985, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was abolished and its
responsibilities were transferred to other units in SEDUE, causing serious
problems of coordination between SEDUE and BANOBRAS. Meaningful supervision of
beneficiaries and satisfactory reporting offectively were non-existent for about
a year after the abolition of the PIU. (Because of the economic difficulties and
natural disasters experienced by Mexico, the Bank deferred taking remedial
action in the expectation that project implementation would improve. When this
did not materialize, the Bank closed Loan 1913-ME in November 1986 and canceled
the undisbursed balance of US$49.28 million.  This action stimulated improved
implementation of FIFAPA III.)   To help overcome this recurring spat- of
difficulties, the Bank worked out a "Plan of Action" with SEDUE and BANOBRAS, but
compliance with its timetable was unsatisfactory and it was not sufficient to
correct the difficulties, mainly due to lack of coordination and communication
between the SEDUE and BANOBRAS (paras. 4.23 and 4.29).
11.       During implementation of all three projects, Mexico continued to
employ grant financing as well as loans at different rates and conditions through
BANOBRAS and other lending institutions to finance investments in the sector.
During appraisal of FIFAPA II and III, it had been expected that the budgetary
problems of the Government would lead to reduced grant funding; but these
expectations did not take into account municipal and state resistance to much
reductions. These different financing windows resulted in an arbitrary structure
of fund schemes and hidden subsidies through subsidized credits, which tended to
mask system inefficiencies. Furthermore, these hidden subsidies stood in the way
of efforts to implement least-cost solutions in the sector (para. 4.30).
RUulta
12.         Many physical targets were surpassed.   The projects helped to
finance 226,590 water and 130,300 sewerage connections, respectively, and served
an incremental population of 1,870,300.  Despite these achievements, the target
p.rcentages for population served could not be met due to rapid population
growth.



13.       Concerning financial, economic, sectoral and institutional objective.,
results were mixed. The first objective, substituting at the national lovel loan
financing for grants for the development of the sector, was accomplished only for
FIFAPA operations, which only funded 8% of total sector investment (para. 6.08a).
The second objective, the establishment of a sustainable financial mechanism to
fund works for the sector was also only partially achieved. That in, the FIFAPA
revolving fund was established in BANOBRAS, but, because relending rates were too
low compared to domestic inflation, it became doecapitalized (6.08b). The third
and fourth objectives were decentralizing the sector and substituting the concept
of tariffs based on cost recovery for tariffs based on traditional concepts,
i.e., water as a social good.   Results have been mixed.   The Government
established the legal framework for transferring responsibilities to states and
municipalities, but the local operators remained, for the most part, weak in
terms of management, operations, and finances, *specially tariff levels (paras.
6.08c). The objectives of improving BANOBRAS and the executing agencies have not
been met. (para 6.08d). Least-cost planning was established for all the works
financed under FIFAPA, but not for all works carried out by the executing agency
(para. 6.08e).
14.       Sustainabilitv. The lingering problms besetting the FIFAPA operation
clearly cast doubt on the *ustainability of the non-physical objectives of the
projects. FIFAPA funded about 8% of sector investments. Yet, their influence
extended beyond that small share by promoting cost-recovery and the uae of least-
cost alternatives which were replicated in a numbor of cases throughout the
country. The FIFAPA operation also served to establish a good dialogue with
sector authorities and the three projects under review laid the foundation for
the Water Supply and Sanitation Project, which was supported by Bank loan 3271-ME
(1990; US$300 million). This project built upon sector work that focused on the
institutional and financial problems of the sector and addresses the most
important issues not covered by FIFAPA.   It has both national and local
components, and aims at: (i) furthering the institutional development of
BANOBRAS, the National Water Commission (CNA), and the Mexican Institute of Water
Technology (IMTA); and (ii) the rehabilitation and expansion of WSS systems in
the poorer areas of subproject cities on a sound technical and financial basis.
While it is till too early to assess fully the success of this ongoing project,
it is valid to state that significant progress has been achieved.
performance.
15.       Bank performance was mixed.   It was strong in reinforcing Bank
credibility in Mexico by demonstrating support for Mexico at crucial moments
(1983) and by combining the right combination of incentive and censure to correct
institutional weakness at BANOBRAS and executing agency (1986); but poor in
failing to address some important issues. At appraisal of all throe projects,
the Bank did not recognize the potential for poor coordination between BANOBRAS
and the executing agency or the need to provide for beneficiary participation in
the project-preparation process.  Thfse shortcomings in project design becam
obvious during execution, especially with respect to the inadequate attention
paid to the beneficiaries (paraa. 8.01-8.12).
16.       SRH/SAHOP/SEDUE, the executing agency, which had a more important role
,to play than the borrower, performed in disappointing fashion while the efficient
operation of FIFAPA by BANOBRAS counterbalanced its weak financial supervision
of the beneficiaries.  Both SRH/SAHOP/SEDUE and BANOBRAS failed to cooperate



-vi-
effectively or carry out their respective functions promptly, but the executing
agency, especially in the years 1985-1986, was particularly remiss with respect
to preparing suitable subproject feasibility studies and supervising the projects
(para. 8.12). Most important in assessing their performance was the availability
of grant financing (85% of total sector financing) between 1981 and 1986, which
undermined the central objectives of the FIFAPA operation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
17.       As experience .with this project demonstrates,  the generation of
support and understanding of project objectives at the local level are pre-,
requisites for smooth and effective implementation. The Bank should have sought
to develop such an understanding, through more intensive sector work and a more
thorough analysis of institutional issues (para. 12.01 a).
18.       In instances where the lead role for implementation can shift between
the executing agency and the Borrower, the Bank must insist on a very clear
definition of institutional arrangements and responsibilities.   While some
conflict was inevitable between the two Mexican institutions sharing
responsibility for project execution, clearer delineation of roles and
obligations during preparation would have likely mitigated some of these
problems. The same judgment applies to the PIU (para. 12.01 b).
19.       Projects that include a large number of subprojects also require more
intensive supervision and field visits on the part of the Bank to assure smoother
operation and implementation of procedures that are perceived as politically
unpopular or too costly in the short run and to ensure a sense of ownership by
beneficiaries by providing them a more significant role in project design. Had
the Bank devoted more resources to supervision and local field visits, the spate
of problems arising from a perception of lack of ownership by the beneficiaries
would have been more adequately taken into account in the design of FIFAPA II and
III (para 12.01 c).
20.       A firm Bank stance can result in long-term gains.  An example in point
was the suspension of disbursements under Loan 1983-ME until the PIU's new staff
stood in compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines and Procedures. Another
lesson is the utility of having agreed, country-wide bidding documents (para
12.01 d).
21.       The FIFAPA operation illustrates the value of taking the long view.
The projects were only one part of a larger effort to overhaul policy at the
macro and sector levels. Notwithstanding the mixed results of these projects,
the dialogue between the Government and the Bank continues and in connection with
Loan 3227-ME there has been success in resolving issues posed by grant financing
and settling jurisdictional conflicts. These achievements draw on the dialogue
and experience under the FIFAPA projects; and hence appropriate credit should be
given (12.01 e).



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MEDIUM CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1186-ME)
SECOND MEDIUM-SIZE CrTIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1913-MEl
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT (LOAN 2281-ME
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Identity
Project Names:  MEDIUM CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT,
SECOND MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Loan Numbers:  1186-MB (US$40 million; Approved, 12/75; Closed, 01/84),
1913-ME (US$125 million; Approved, 11/80; Closed, 11/86)
2281-ME (US$100.3 million; Approved, 05/83; Closed, 12/90)
Borrower: National Bank of Public Works and Service. (BANOBRAS)
RVP Unit:  Latin America and the Caribbean
Country: Mexico
Sector: Water Supply and Sewerage (WSS)
2. ackaround.
2.01           Context   Between 1974 and 1990, Bank and Mexican officials
collaborated to prepare and execute the three water/sewerage projects covered
by this project completion report (PCR). The Bank supported these project.
with Loans 1186-ME, 1913-ME, and 2281-ME, amounting to US$265.3 million.
2.02           To evaluate the results of these projects, it is important to
understand the context in which they were planned and executed. During this
period, there were four Administrations -- those of Presidents Luis Echeverria
(1970-1976), Lopez Portillo (1976-1982), Miguel de la Madrid (1982-1988), and
Carlos Salinas (1988 to the present) -- during which there were extensive
changes with respect to policy, personnel, and Government commitment to the
objectives of the projects. Also during this period, there were major
economic developments, especially in 1982, when the oil-related boom
collapsed, thereby requiring a fundamental re-thinking of the national
development strategy and the subsequent implementation of stringent measures
to stabilize and restructure the economy. Besides changing Administrations
and economic developments, the context included elements ranging from other
water sector Bank loans to the evolution of water resource poliey and sector
organization.  Set forth below is the first of these elements; the other
elements arm discussed in later chapters.
2.03           Bank Landina.  Since 1973, the Bank has made six loans
(US$675.3 million) to support water supply and sewerage (WSS) projects in
Mexico (Part III, Table 1). Supported by Loan 909-MB (US$90 million; 1973),
the first project was completed in 1981, five years late. The project
.accomplished its objective of inereased water production capacity, but with



-2-
respect to institutional objectives for the beneficiary, Comision de Aguas del
Valle de Mexico, accomplishments ranged from poor to fair.''
2.04           Supported by Loans 1186-ME, 1913-ME, and 2281-ME (para. 2.01),
the projects covered by this PCR achieved their physical objectives of
extending and improving water and sewerage systems (referred to hereafter as
"local operators") and increasing service levels, but they fell short of their
objectives of establishing an appropriate institutional framework and sound
cost-recovery policies.
2.05           The remaining two loans are 3101-ME (US$20 million, 1989) and
3271-ME (US$300 million, 1990). In 1991, at Government request, the Bank
canceled Loan 3101-ME (from which no proceeds were disbursed). Underlying
this request was a change in the Government approach to alleviating poverty
which made loan funds unattractive for the beneficiary states.r The project
supported by Loan 3271-ME is proceeding on schedule and is expected to be
completed in 1995.
2.06           Physical Characteristics.  About three-fourths of Mexico is
arid or semi-arid and its water resources are unevenly distributed. Areas of
heavy rainfall are thinly populated, while dry areas contain the bulk of the
urban population. Because the mismatch of water resources and population is
particularly severe in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA), the
Government is encouraging the relocation of people and industry to other
locations. About 80% of the surface water resources are found below 500 meters
of elevation, while 75% of the population and 80% of industrial output are
located above that level. Consequently, water in many areas is scarce and
costly, accentuating competing demands on agricultural users, domestic users
and hydroelectricity generation.
2.07           Current Sector Organization.  Because of the competition among
users, Federal agencies establish water resource policy and standards to
assure allocation of this scarce resource in line with national development
priorities. Federal agencies are also responsible for the planning and
construction of major new works. For example, the Secretariat of Agriculture
and Hydraulic Resources (SAHR) sets water policy; it also constructs and
operates bulk-water supply systems to municipalities. The National Water
Commission (CNA), established in 1990 as an autarkic agency under SAHR,
provides technical support in water supply and irrigation to local operators.
The National Bank of Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS) is a main source of
financing outside the Federal budget. The Secretariat of Urban Development
and Ecology (SEDUE) sets standards for water pollution control and protection
of the environment.
2.08           Local operators provide WSS services under a spectrum of
organizational arrangements -- departments of municipal governments such as
public works; semi-autonomous municipal companies; or state companies operat-
ing municipal systems. Some local systems are operated by a Federal agency,
but since 1975, the number of such systems has been slowly declining. With
1. World Bank: Proiect Performance Audit Report: Mexico City Water Supply Proiect (Loan 909-ME), 'Highlighta", pp.
iv-v, Report No. 4623, dated June 30, 1993.
Z Idem., Proiect Completion Memorandum, dated June 21, 1991, pp. 3-6.



respect to management, operations, efficiency, information systems, and
financial records, the level of performance by local operators varies widely.
Thin organizational pattern for Federal agencies and local operators has
prevailed throughout the period covered by this report (1974-75 to 1990).
2.09           Since 1983, Federal water policy and legislation have aimed at
maintaining the policy-making and normative functions of Federal agencies,
reducing their financing and operating roles, and expanding and developing the
roles of local operators with the objective of reinforcing their autonomy and
financial viability. These objectives represent a substantial change from the
situation prevailing when Mexican and Bank officials began preparing (1974-75)
the first project, known as FIFAPA I.F However, progress has been slow for a
variety of financial, technical, and institutional reasons.
2.10           Former Sector Organization.  In 1972, the Water Law assigned
wide policy-making and operational powers to a Federal agency, the Secretariat
of Hydraulic Resources (SRH), including responsibility for: (1) planning,
constructing, and operating urban WSS works which relied on Federal funding;
and (2) approving the schemes of other entities, even if no Federal funding
was involved. SRH controlled about 200 systems directly and another 600
systems through Federal Water Board (Juntas Federals. de Agua).4 Federally-
managed systems served about 20% of the total population. State and municipal
entities managed the remaining systems. State governments set tariffs. As a
consequence of its fractured structure, the activities of the sector were not
coordinated.
2.11           The 1976 Administration Reform Act assigned the duties of SRH
(para. 2.10) to SARH, its successor (para. 2.07); however, the same law also
assigned to the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) the
task of constructing and operating WSS systems outside Mexico City.
Accordingly, SARH delegated actual construction and operation of specific
schemes to SAHOP.
2.12           To operate at the local level, SAHOP established "Centroo
SAHOP", or state offices; and operated some 1,200 systems. The operational
performance of these systems was poor -- inefficient management, unclear
financial policies, insufficient cash generation, lengthy delays due to
centralized decision making at the national headquarters. This experience
underlaid the decision (1980) of the Federal Government to begin transferring
to the states the systems operated by SAHOP. Reinforcing this decision were
amendments (1983) to Article 115 of the Constitution, assigning to cities and
municipalities the responsibility for providing WSS services. In practice the
local operators often required the help of the state and Federal governments
(para. 2.07).
_/ In connection with the fint project, BANOBRAS created a funding device with the acronym FIFAPA - Investment Fund
for Water Supply and Sewerage Workh. Bank and Mexican officials adopted the pracice of referring to the various projects
as FIFAPA 1, FIFAPA U, and FIFAPA m. The roman numerals permitted them to distinguish between the different
projects (FIFAPA 1, n, and II) and the funding device (FIFAPA). Because the projecs tended to resemble each other and
because the financing of subprojects was trnsferred between the Loans 1 186ME and 1913-ME and between 1913-ME and
2I81-ME as needed, Bank and Mexican officials came to think of the separate projects u part of single 'FIFAPA
opeation. Part n makes plain the Mexican point of view. The approach of this PCR is to treat the project  parately.
I/ World Bank: 'Issues Paper", datod January 27, 1975, p. 2, footnote 2.



2.13           The 1982 Public Administrative Law created SEDUE (para. 2.07),
which had powers and responsibilities similar to those of SAHOP, which was
abolished. SEDUE was responsible for: (i) WSS policy and planning outside
Mexico City; (ii) coordinating all state and municipal actions affecting the
sector; (iii) providing technical assistance to the states; and (iv)
supervising the construction of all subprojects. In 1990, CNA took over the
technical assistance responsibilities of SEDUE. In 1992, SEDUE became SEDESOL
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Social) and, as regards the water sector, its future
role will be limited to setting environmental norms. Hence CNA's role has
been further strengthened.
2.14           Current Obiectives.  Unlike the situation prevailing during
preparation of FIFAPA I (1974-75), the Government has established clear
technical, organizational and institutional objectives for the sector. By the
year 2,000, the Government is aiming at supplying piped water and sewerage
services to 94% and 82% of the population, respe ctively. As for organiza-
tional objectives, the Government is committed to: (i) retaining its policy-
making and normative roles; (ii) reducing its financing role; and (iii)
delegating the provision of WSS services to states and municipalities. The
institutional challenge to the Government is to help the local operators to
upgrade their performance. The Government is also committed to seeking
private-sector participation through concessional schemes. Concerning
finance, the Government aims at increasing the internal cash generation of the
local operators and reducing reliance on Federal contributions. The
Government is also seeking to develop the institutional capability of local
operators -- state, municipal and Federal -- to address water pollution and
environmental issues. Through the ongoing Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Project which is partially financed with Loan 3271-ME (para. 2.05), the Bank
supports the objectives of the Government, especially the development of local
operators that are technically efficient, financially independent, and
institutionally strong. The Bank also supports: (i) reforms which deal with
water supply in an integral manner, from its source to its disposal; (ii)
unification of Federal and state financial assistance to the operating
agencies under standardized criteria and conditions; and (iii) protection of
the environment and improvement of water quality.
2.15           Macroeconomic Developments.  During the Administrations of
Presidents Echeverria (1970-1976) and Portillo (1976-1982), the Government
continued to adhere to the inward-looking, state-contered national development
strategy which had prevailed since about 1940. Consisting of massive
Government investment in infrastructure, subsidies to favored sectors,
protection for industry, etc., this development model had helped transform
Mexico from an agricultural to an industrial/service economy.  However, by the
end of the Administration of President Echeverria, the limitations of this
strategy were beginning to appear, especially as increased Government spending
had not been accompanied by corresponding and appropriate increases in fiscal
resources. These limitations took the form of a stagnating economy, high
levels of inflation, and serious public-sector deficits and balance-of-pay-
ments shortfalls. To stabilize the economy, the Portillo Administration
initially had to undertake a macroeconomic program based largely on
devaluation and fiscal restraint. However, following the discovery of major
oil reserves in 1977 and the prospect of large oil-related revenues and
fQreign borrowings to finance Government programs, the Portillo Administration
abandoned its stabilization program and resumed a high level of public sector



-5-
expenditures. Over the next three years, the strong growth of the economy
masked serious structural flaws, including the stagnation of non-oil exports.
2.16           In 1981, supply conditions and prices in world oil markets
began to ease. This development implied reduced oil revenues for Mexico and
threatened to undermine the foundation of the national development strategy.
By the end of the year, the financial and economic conditions of the country
had begun to resemble those prevailing in 1976 with the added complication of
massive capital flight. In 1982, the Portillo Administration, facing a full-
blown financial crisiu, nationalized the banking system, which led to further
loss of public confidence in the capacity of the Government to address the
problems of the country.
2.17           The Administration of President de la Madrid (1982-1988),
which took office in December 1982, introduced a stringent stabilization
program. Further, based on a major re-thinking of the national development
strategy, it began to introduce over the next six years important structural
reforms to integrate Mexico into the world economy: dismantling trade
barriers, joining GATT, reforming taxes to stimulate investment and non-oil
exports, liberalizing financial markets, and privatizing public enterprises.
As a result of these comprehensive policy measures, which have been continued
and extended by the Salinas Administration (1988 to the present), Mexico has
become one of the most open economies in the world and has started on the hard
road to recovery. Growth rates again have turned positive.
3.   Prepartion
3.01           FIFAPA I: Issues.  In addition to the evolution of development
policy, changes in Administrations, and changes in sector organization, the
context surrounding these projects also included numerous other issues --
water-resource/population policy, finances, economic, institutional, etc. As
shown later, some issues first identified in connection with FIFAPA I
reappeared with some change or refinement in connection with FIFAPA II and
FIFAPA III.
3.02           Bank and Mexican officials planned FIFAPA I in 1974-1975,
during the last years of the Echevarria Administration (para. 2.15). The
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for FIFAPA I states that except for setting
target service levels for 1980 and except for the organizational
responsibilities of SRH mandated by the Water Law (para. 2.10), there was no
"overall sector policy" F   At that time (1975), the Government was
considering the recomendations of a draft sector study and a draft National
Hydraulic Plan (PNH), both of which the Bank had helped to prepare. The PNH
"...was designed to formulate a water development program consisting of
specific projects ...and facilitate adoption of policy decisions concerning
water use and development"J The sector study identified sector
.I Ld., Araisal of the Medium Cities Water SupolV and Saweraae Proicet. Mexico, Report No. 8SSa-ME, dated
November 26, 1975, p. 3. Hereafier referd to aSAR, LfIEPA 1. Also, the Staff Appraisal Reports for FIFAPA n and
FIFAPA ml will be refcrred to in like manner - that is, SFIAPA n, and SAR. PIFAPA In.
§f LM., Report of the Preident to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan to Banco Nacional de Obru v Servicios
with the Guarntce of the United Mexican States for a Medium Size Cities Water SuDolV and Sewerage Proiect, Report No.
(continued...)



-6-
organization, coordination, and finances an major issues. Both studieos
recommended important departure. from the then current situation.  The
identification, preparation and appraisal missions (January 1974, July 1974,
and June 1975) confirmed the importance of those issues (Part III, Table 2).
(As stated in 1971, the target service levels for 1980 were: (a) water: urban
population, 80%, and rural population, 50%; and (b) sewerage: urban, 50%, and
rural, 30%.)
3.03           More specifically, the lack of an overall sector policy meant
that the Government had not fully stated its priorities and strategies with
respect to: (i) water-resource/population policy; (ii) health and water-borne
diseases; (iii) sector organization, including transfer of reoponsibilities
from Federal agencies to states and municipalities; (iv) the operational and
project-preparation capabilities of SRH; (v) a financing mechanism to
encourage the substitution of loans for Federal grants and to establish the
principle of cost recovery through more realistic pricing policies; and (vi)
the shortcomings of local operators -- management, operational, and financial.
3.04           Another issue was the absence of economic (least-cost) project
selection criteria on the part of SRH. There were links between this issue
and the isoues of weak sector finances and poor efficiency on the part of the
operators. Local attitudes towards water was the origin of these issues.
Since water was considered a social good, tariffs normally just covered cash
operating expenses.e Hence, it followed that the financing of major new
works depended on Federal grants. In these circumstances, there was a history
of project selection and preparation on grounds other than economic; indeed,
the fact of Federal grant financing provided no incentive for economic
behavior on the part of local managers. Further, inadequacies of operations
and maintenance by local operators were deemed partly responsible for a
relatively high incidence of water-related diseases.
3.05           The sector study (para. 3.02) recowmmndod: transfer from the
Federal Government to the states and municipalities the responsibility for
preparing, constructing, and operating WSS facilitios; promotion of project
financing based on the principle of cost recovery; promotion of tariffs
reflecting as closely as possible the marginal cost of supply; and reorganiz-
ing SRH to eliminate overlapping functions. These recommendations formed the
basis for a dialogue on Bank support for FIFAPA I, which, besides funding
investment in WSS systems, aimed at beginning reforms in major areas of sector
policy: (i) changing the pattern of financing new works by substituting loan.
for grant.; (ii) changing a policy of low, "social" tariffs for water services
to one based on the principle of cost recovery, i.e., tariff levels providing
revenue sufficient to cover operating costs and debt servie-; and (iii)
upgrading the project-preparation capacity at SRH (substituting least-cost
!k( ..continued)
P-1727-ME, dated Decenber 4, 1975, p. 9, pam. 27. Hereater refirrd to as Pnridet's Reort. FIPAPA I. lhe
Presidet' Report for FIFAPA nI w be rfcrred to in hle mnun - tht u, Pemidnt'. Rort FMAPA nI.
2/ World Health Organizaon and World Bank: Sector Study: Water SuDDlV Lad Sewern, Report No. 1278-ME, daed
August 16, 1976; and United Nations Development Program and World Bank: Mexioo: Nationl Water Plan, Report No.
14Q6-ME, dated Novenber 1976.
I/ World Bank: SARE FIFAPA L p. 3, par. 2.05.



- 7 -
principles for non-economic principles).P  Aware of discussions within the
Government concerning excessive centralization and other institutional
shortcomings at SRH, Bank staff decided that it was inappropriate to link the
project to any particular remedial scheme -- except to support a training
program (paras. 3.10 and 3.11) -- while the Government was still considering
its options.L' Staff also deferred seeking measures to promote the transfer
of Federal responsibilities to the states and municipalities.
3.06           Concerning the mode of Bank lending, the Government initially
proposed a loan based on a "program approach", i.e., agreement on selection
criteria with identification of subprojects to follow loan approval. As SRH
was not accustomed to assessing and preparing projects on an economic basis,
the Bank would not agree to this proposal. During project preparation, it wan
necessary for Bank staff to contribute extensively to the preparation of
suitable feasibility studies for uubprojects.
3.07           At appraisal, the project definition and the responsibilities
of the various parties to the project ("institutional arrangements") appeared
to be clear. The project would consist of WSS subprojects chosen on least-
cost criteria with supporting documentation to benefit a specific group of
cities which had indicated a willingness to participate in the project.i1'
BANOBRAS, as the borrower, would relend Bank and Federal resources through
FIFAPA to local operators (state, Federal, and municipal), who would be the
beneficiaries (Loan 1186-ME, Loan Agreement -- LA -- Secs. 3.01 & 4.01).
BANOBRAS would act as financial agent for the Government: presenting disburse-
ment requests to the Bank, paying contractors, collecting debt-service pay-
ments from sub-borrowers, etc. BANOBRAS would not evaluate and supervise the
execution of projects. This was the role of SRH which, as the executing
agency, would carry out the project (LA, Schedule 2, Parts A & B) through a
properly-staffed special unit (Project Implementation Unit -- PIU) in charge
of appraising and supervising the subprojects (Loan 1186-ME, Guarantee
Agreement -- GA -- Secs. 3.01 & 3.05). Besides carrying out the project, the
PIU would also issue project preparation guidelines based on least-cost
criteria (Loan 1186-MN, GA, Sacs. 3.04 & 3.06). It was hoped that this unit
would constitute a core planning group around which the sector could be
reorganized. Except for complying with their respective sub-loan agreements,
the beneficiaries had no active role with respect to the project.
3.08           To assure an adequate financial mechanism, BANOBRAS estab-
lished, in addition to its other lending facilities ("windows"), FIFAPA -- a
revolving fund which would derive its resources from Government equity
contributions and the proceeds of the Bank loan and would relend those
resources to local operators on the basis of cost-recovery and municipal
commitment to the concept of financial self-reliance. Through the FIFAPA
mechanism, the project contemplated the substitution of loan financing for
grant financing.
2/ Ibid., pp. 1-2, pam. 1.04.
12/ &Wi, p. 7. pan. 4.03.
A/ lm., President's Reort. FIFAPA . p. 13. 'In view of the limited number of project that could meet the agreed
technical, financial and economic election criteria, the eight cities ... chowen for the project have been slckted on the basis
of availability of suitable proposals.'



3.09           At appraisal, the Bank staff judged BANOBRAS to be well-run
and recommended no remedial actions. Concerning the executing agent, Bank
staff observed certain deficiencies in the organization of SRH and the project
preparation capacity of PIU/SRH.U' As already reported (para. 3.05), the
Bank did not seek to link the project to any particular scheme for
reorganizing SRH, but it secured agreement to the establishment of the PIU
with adequate staffing and authority "to monitor project preparation,
appraisal,.design, execution and administration of subprojects financed with
the proposed Bank loan".2 In theory, the PIU/SRH had the authority to
coordinate the activities of other SRH departments -- construction,
engineering, finance, etc.
3.10           Concerning the beneficiaries, Bank staff observed that they
were not well managed. There was a poor standard of maintenance, excessive
water losses, inadequately qualified personnel, and deficient systems for
accounting, billing, and collections. To remedy these shortcomings and to
strengthen sector organization, the Bank and Mexican officials agreed on a
training program in operational, administrative, and financial matters to
benefit the beneficiaries and the project-connected personnel at SRH. The
PIU/SRH would administer this program.
3.11           As defined in the Loan Agreement (Sch. 2), FIFAPA I consisted
of: Part A -- the extension, in eight cities (Cd. Victoria, Jalapa, Mexicali,
Morelia, Reynosa, Salamanca, Tampico-Cd. Madero, and Tuxtla Gutierrez), of
water supply services to new users and improvements to existing customerq, the
installation of sewerage services, the installation of meters on unmetered
sources, repair of meters, and leak detection programs; and Part B -- a train-
ing program to upgrade project-connected personnel. BANOBRAS agreed that the
sub-loan agreements would include tariff and audit covenants -- namely, that
three years after sub-loan signing, tariff levels would have been increased in
three annual steps sufficiently to provide revenues covering operating
expenses, increases in working capital, and the larger of annual debt service
or depreciation on revalued fixed assets, and that each beneficiary should
have its accounts audited by a qualified, independent auditor in accordance
with sound auditing principles (Loan 1183-ME, LA, Sch. 5). The sub-loans
would be repaid in local currency by the local WSS authority over a term of 18
to 19 years, including a grace period of about 3 years, and would carry a
fixed interest rate of 9%, which was below the rate of inflation in 1975, 10%
(between January and December 1975) and below the interest rate on medium-term
savings accounts, 12%. The underlying objectives of such covenants were to
assure the repayment of FIFAPA, to promote the concept of cost-recovery in the
financing of WSS projects, and to develop beneficiaries which were both
financially and institutionally strong.
3.12           While the Bank understood that these measures (the project
unit, FIFAPA, etc.) did not constitute a sector-wide change with respect to
policies and practices, it did expect that their future extension to an ever-
IV Idm., 'Note to Pi", dad April 2, 1975, pan. 4; Back4to-flcc and Fuil Report', dad April 8,1975, pans. 3,
Suad 6; luues Paper'", dad July 10, 1975, pam. 3.
U/ Lbm.. SAR .IFAPA 1, p. 7, pan. 4.05.



widening group of local operators would point the way toward such change.-
The underlying assumption for this expectation was that Government commitment
to this project implied an eventual reduction of grant financing, although
Bank records provide no estimate am to the amount of such reduction. Bank
records also do not indicate consideration given to issues which would later
plague the project -- namely, lack of a clear definition of the respective
roles of BANOBRAS and SRH and lack of a mechanism to bring the beneficiaries
into the decision-making process related to project preparation and
implementation.  The decision-making process was centered in the offices of
SRH in Mexico City.
3.13           The SAR identified the risks to the project as: (i) the
limited capacity of PIU/SRH to prepare projects and to act as an agent of
change for remedying the organizational deficiencies of SRH; and (ii) the
possible lack of political commitment at the state and national levels to,
respectively, raise water tariffs and extend the financial and organizational
reforms of the project on a nationwide basis. It was expected that intensive
supervision would overcome the first risk and help develop sufficient
commitment at all levels of government to mitigate the other risks.W  Bank
records do not indicate any explicit consideration given to the possibility of
a negative response at the local level, i.e., that the states and
municipalities might prefer the status gau and would exercise pressure to
continue the flow of grants and subsidies which had financed past expansion
and operation. The absence of such commentary probably reflects the nature of
the Bank dialogue which tended to be mostly with the national entities, Jto the
exclusion of states and municipalities.
3.14           The project cost was estimated at US$90 milliont US$89.17
million for the WSS subprojects (Part A); and US$0.83 million for the training
program (Part B) (after pro-rata distribution of physical and price
contingencies). The foreign-currency cost of US$36 million would be covered
by Loan 1186-ME (1975: US$40 million, including US$4.0 million for interest
during construction). The implementation period was expected to extend from
early 1976 to June 30, 1980. The expected loan closing date was December 31,
1980.
3.15           FIFAPA II: Issues.  Bank and Mexican officials prepared FIFAPA
II in 1979-1980 (Part III, Table 2). In the optimistic years following the
discovery of major new oil reserves, the Administration of President Portillo
(1976-1982) adopted a growth strategy based on ample availability of financing
from oil revenues and foreign borrowings (para. 2.15). By 1980, the
Government had set new target service levels and made up its mind about the
future direction of water-resource/population policy and sector organization.
3.16           For the year 2000, the Government wanted to provide 95% of the
urban population and 80% of the rural population with piped water and to
provide 80% of the urban population and 42% of the rural population with
sewerage or sanitation services. (Actual service levels in 1979-80 had fallen
short of the targets announced in 1971s urban water: actual, 54% vs. target,
80%; and urban sewerage, actual 42% vs. target 50%.) Given that about 20% of
IV IaM., Lcaer to Govenment, dad August 1, 1975.
JII /  mM, SAR, PFAPA I, p. 19, pam. 7.08.



- 10 -
the total population was concentrated in the MCMA, it was imperative that the
Government continue its efforts to redistribute people and industry to medium-
size cities. Adopted in 1978, the "Plan Nacional de De-arrollo Urbano" (PNDU)
aimed at improving the water-resource/ population mismatch, and addressed
regional priorities by controlling growth in the three main urban centers
(Mexico City, Guadalajara, and Monterrey) and by promoting development in a
number of intermediate cities. The PNDU was later supplemented by a National
Incentive Program which established the order of priorities within the sector
through various monetary incentives (variable interest rates, utility costs,
and taxes). Both plans aimed at a more rational distribution of population and
industry.
3.17           Besides having set target service levels and having adopted
policies and plans to improve the water-resource/population mismatch, the
Government articulated the elements of a coherent policy on sector
organization and finances: (i) Federal agencies would continue to: (a) set
policy and establish standards with respect to water use, treatment, etc.; (b)
support the concept of water/sewerage tariffs based on marginal cost
principles; and (c) substitute loan financing for grant financing, utilizing
FIFAPA and linked to the concept of cost recovery; (ii) water policy
explicitly recognized disease prevention as an objective; and (iii) management
of local operators would increasingly assume the tasks of operations and
expansion on a self-financing basis. (This policy closely paralleled the
recommendations of a sector memorandum prepared in late 1978 by the Bank and
the Pan American Health Organization,W which the Government commended ".,.as
a good report, but lacking a description of intermediate and politically
viable actions in order to achieve the stated objectives".f)  The Government
was in the final stages of preparing a decree to inaugurate a policy of
transferring Federally-operated WSS facilities to states or municipalities
("decentralization policy").
3.18           The purpose. of FIFAPA II were to support the objectives of
PNDU, further the "decentralization policy" by assisting in the transformation
of Federal and other local operators into autonomous water companies (AWSs),
strengthen the management capabilities and financial performance of the AWSs,
and improve the environmental/health conditions of medium-size cities. &
3.19           The context in which FIFAPA II was prepared reflected the
recently successful efforts of the Bank and SAHOP to overcome the factors
slowing the implementation of FIFAPA I. Between 1976 and 1978, these factors
included inadequate leadership and staffing at the PIU, project-preparation
and organizational problems at SRH/SAHOP, poor interagency coordination
between BANOBRAS and SRH/SAHOP, and a hostile to lukewarm attitude on the part
of beneficiaries toward the concepts of least-cost projects and tariffs based
on cost-recovery principles (paras. 4.04 and 4.10). To remedy these problems,
the Bank, in the first half of 1978, suggested major personnel changes which
SAHOP accepted and implemented; and later in the year, SAHOP began to contract
16 World Bank and Pan American World Heath Organization: "Mexico: Water Supply and Snitation Sector
Mcmorandum" (White Cover), p. ii, pars. viii, ix, x, and xii, dated October 1978.
II/ World Bank: "Sector Memomndum: Back-to-Ofrice Report", p. 1, pa. 4, dated March 16, 1979.
I8/ Idem., SAR. FIPAPA n, Report No. 3026d-ME, dated October 7, 1980, p. 21, pan. 6.03.



- 11 -
consultants to prepare appraisal reports based on least-cost principles (para.
3.21). By the beginning of 1979, there was a definite improvement in project
progress. Five sub-loan agreements were signed, two were about to be signed;
subproject construction was underway; the PIU and SAHOP were performing more
efficiently; and the problems of interagency cooperation were reduced. While
project progress was behind schedule at the beginning of 1979 (about two
years), the rate of implementation was moving at a satisfactory rate. Project
completion was expected at the end of 1981 or early 1982. By June 30, 1979,
US$5.4 million (13.5%) of Loan 1183-ME had been disbursed vs. the appraisal
estimate of US$39.0 million (97.5%); and by August 1980, just three months
before the loan for FIFAPA II was approved -- November 1980 -- US$16.8 million
(42%) of Loan 1196-ME had been disbursed and all of the loan and project funds
had been committed.
3.20           The improvement in the operations of SAHOP and BANOBRAS in
1979 and the evidence of strong Government commitment to the objectives of the
FIFAPA operation made a very positive impression on Bank staff. The Project
Brief for FIFAPA II made no reference to the earlier shortcomings of BANOBRAS
and did not identify interagency cooperation as an issue. Hence, Bank staff
proposed no corresponding corrective measures. Evidently, Bank staff were
counting on continuing strong Government commitment to the objectives of the
FIFAPA operation to ensure continuation of the recent improvements.
3.21           Despite the problems and delays with respect to the timely
preparation of satisfactory feasibility studies in 1976-1978, the Project
Brief did not identify the organization and performance of SAHOP as issues to
be addressed through loan conditionality.0 Such absence of commentary
reflected Bank acquiescence to the use of consultants, whose performance had
been in general satisfactory, for the preparation of feasibility studies for
subprojects to be included in FIFAPA II. It also meant that the Bank was
abandoning, at least temporarily, the effort to develop a full "in-house"
project-preparation capacity at SAHOP. The financing for the consultants had
materialized in late 1978 in the form of an additional budgetary allocation
(US$6.7 million).  To avoid delays due to the weak project-preparation
capacity of SAHOP, the Bank relied on the completion of such studies by
consultants, representing all but 30% of the projects before loan approval,11
and on an expected intensive supervision effort. The appraisal mission,
according to the SAR for FIFAPA II, focused on strengthening SAHOP1  -- that
is, obtaining the assurances of SAHOP to strengthen the PIU with adequate
levels of qualified stafft.W To address the problem of municipal resistance
to FIFAPA loans and to the concept of cost recovery, Bank staff relied on the
persuasive powers of SAHOP to explain to local officials the virtues of least-
12/1 Id=., Projea Bnef, p. 4, pan. 3.02 and 3.03, dad Marh 30, 1979.
WIM, 'Superdiion Report', dad July 26, 1979, Anm  7, pan. 1.
21 dIM., SALR FIFAPA n, p. 22, pru. 6.07 ad 6.08.
22  ikd., p. 1, par. 2.03.
2/ Ek., p. 12, par. 3.14.



- 12 -
cost planning and cost-recovery financing V and the anticipated enhanced
lending power and financial importance of FIFAPA.     While at the time this
may well have been the most that could be achieved, the Bank should have been
more critical in its assessment of the potential shortcomings and risks of the
approach followed, and should have provided in the SAR a more comprehensive
statement of the rationale for acting as it did.
3.22            To address the operational, managerial, and financial
deficiencies of the local operators, Bank staff proposed training and other
measures for their improvement. But staff seem not to have understood that
the non-participation of the local operators in project preparation (which was
centered in Mexico City) generated no sense of autonomy or of responsibility
for project design (para. 3.12).
3.23           Bank staff were aware that the continuing availability of
grant financing to states and municipalities might undermine the effectiveness
of FIFAPA as a financing mechanism and delay signing sub-loan agreements and
project execution, but they believed that this risk had been "minimized by the
Government's decision to gradually reduce grant financing".2y The SAR and
Bank files related to the appraisal provided no information on the timing and
amounts related to reduced grant financing; it may have been that the
Government was unwilling to go beyond a statement of intention on such a
delicate domestic matter. The unspoken expectation on the part of the Bank
was that the Administration would find sufficient support in the Congress to
override the objections, if any, of the municipalities and that such reduction
would be sufficient to enhance the role of FIFAPA during the implementation
period of the project (1981-1984). (The Bank made no subsequent effort to
monitor regularly the annual amounts of grant and non-grant financing used by
the sector.) Given the delays experienced under FIFAPA I, the Bank again did
not agree to the initial Government proposal for a program-type operation
(para. 3.06).
3.24           Under FIFAPA II, the roles and responsibilities of the
borrower, executing agency, and beneficiaries paralleled those under FIFAPA I.
BANOBRAS, as the borrower, would relend Bank and Federal resources through
FIFAPA to beneficiary local operators (Loan 1913-ME, LA, Secc. 3.01 & 3.02).
BANOBRAS would be the financial agent of the Government and would perform the
same duties as it did under FIFAPA I: paying contractors, collecting debt
service, etc. SAHOP, as the executing agency, would: (i) carry out the
projects through a properly staffed special unit (PIU) in charge of appraisals
and supervision; and (ii) provide training to the beneficiaries to meet the
specific needs their project-connected personnel (Loan 1913-ME, GA, Seca.
3.01, 4.02, & 4.03). As under FIFAPA I, the role of the beneficiaries was
confined to complying with their respective sub-loan agreements (para. 3.07).
3.25           Unlike FIFAPA I, when beneficiaries were chosen simply on the
basis of their willingness to participate, the beneficiaries under FIFAPA II
would be selected in conformity with the priorities set forth in PNDU and with
ZA/ IemsPident's Reort. FIFAPA nI, Report No. P-2983-ME, dd Octobr 15, 1980, p. 12, pas. 46.
2I 1-m., SAR FIPAPA n, p. 11, pam. 3.07
_W [bd. p. 44 pamn S.19.



- 13 -
other agreed criteria (coverage levels below the national average; and the
availability of idle water production capacity); and *ubprojects would be
selected on the basis of least-cost criteria (Loan 1913-MB, LA, Sec. 5.02).
Only state or municipal companies could be beneficiaries (Loan 1913-MZ, LA,
Sec. 5.03). State governments were obliged to guarantee the sub-loans; sub-
loan disbursements were conditioned to the establishment of a municipal or
state company if it did not exist. Sub-loans would bear an interest rate of
at least 9% with a term not to exceed 18.5 years (Loan 1913-NE, LA, Sec. 5).
BANOBRAS agreed to include in its sub-loan agreements the prior covenants on
revenue levels and audits and to include new covenants relating to subproject
timetables, monitoring indicators, institutional improvements, reduced
accounts receivables, tariff studies, asset revaluation, accrual accounting
systems, etc. (Loan 1913-M, LA, Sch. 5). The purposes of the sub-loan
covenants were the same as under FIFAPA I (para. 3.11). SAHOP agreed to
prepare not later than June 30, 1981 a framework tariff study, which would
establish the basic guidelines and criteria for the tariff levels and
structures of the local operators (Loan 1913-ME, GA, Sec. 3.04).
3.26           It was recognized that the 9% interest rate on sub-loane was
lower than the then current (July 1979-June 1980) rate of interest paid on
short-term commercial paper (26.9%) and highly negative at the rate of
inflation (24.8%) in Mexico. However, the Bank "accepted the judgement of the
Mexican authorities that it would be premature to raise the onlending terms,
including the 9% interest rate charged to local water authorities, before the
concept of loan financing of water supply projects has been firmly estabjished
through the second FIFAPA operation".2' This was an important concession on
the part of the Bank, as it meant accepting relending terms which would
eventually decapitalize FIFAPA; however, it was worthwhile to the Bank to
establish: (a) least-cost selection criteria; and (b) financing arrangements
incorporating, even if imperfectly, the concept of cost recovery (as compared
with grants). It was also expected that FIFAPA would become the primary
source of funding as grant monies became less available (para. 3.23).
3.27           FIFAPA II was designed to extend water supply services to
about 1.2 million people and sewerage services to nearly 1.3 million in
several medium size cities. The project included construction of sewage
treatment plants, where necessary, to keep the pollution level of effluents
within acceptable standards; and promoted the metering of house connections.
A small technical assistance program (para. 3.24) was designed to help local
operators to improve their operational and service capabilities, i.e., the
implementation of accrual accounting systems and the acquisition of equipment
for accounting, leak detection, and water quality control. The urban poor
were expected to conetitute about 35% of the new customers served by the
project. The medium-size cities to benefit from the project included Tepic,
Toluca, Nogales, Monclova, Matamoros, Queretaro, Cd. Juarez and any other city
meeting agreed selection criteria (Loan 1913-ME, LA, Sec. 5.02 & Sch. 2).
3.28           The SAR identified as risks to the project the: (i) lengthy
approval process at the state and municipal levels for sub-loan agreements;
and (ii) limited management capacity of the beneficiaries. The Bank expected
that the Government decision to reduce gradually grant financing would
overcome the reluctance of local authorities to finance WSS subprojects
2/id, p. 11, pam. 3.09.



- 14 -
through FIFAPA loans. The Bank also expected management deficiencies of local
operators would be overcome by actions of SAHOP, including the operation of
its national training program.& Underlying the Bank's confidence was the
expectation of strong Government support for the organizational, institutional
and financial objectives of the project. The pressure of subsequent economic
events (paras. 2.16 and 2.17) and municipal political resistance substantially
undermined the support of the Government for these objectives.
3.29           Excluding the Value Added Tax of USS21.0  million, the project
cost was estimated at US$297 million: US$0.61 million for the technical
assistance program and US$296.39 million for WSS subprojocts (after pro-rata
distribution of physical and price contingencies). The foreign-currency cost
of US$125 million would be covered by the proceeds of Loan 1913-ME (US$125
million, 1980). Because BANOBRAS, the borrower, was financially strong, the
loan included no financing for interest during construction. The
implementation period was expected to extend from about November 1980 to June
30, 1984. The expected loan closing date was December 31, 1984.
3.30           FIFAPA III: Issues.       Even before effectiveness of Loan
1913-ME, Bank and Mexican officials began planning for FIFAPA III. Identifi-
cation, preparation, and appraisal were completed between April 1981 and March
1982, but thereafter, in the circumstances of the financial crisis of 1982
(para. 2.17), the Bank deferred approving the Loan until May 17, 1983 (Part
III, Table 2).
3.31           The context in which FIFAPA III was prepared initially
resembled that of FIFAPA II (para. 3.20).  Rates of implem ntation for both
FIFAPA I and II were satisfactory. Reliance on consultants to prepare final
studies, financial projections, and designs had proved to be satisfactory.
Government commitment to the objectives of the FIFAPA operation appeared to be
strong.
3.32           This positive context changed drastically in the second half
of 1982: Mexico's economic and financial crisis led to a drastic budgetary
reduction for FIFAPA, non-payment to contractors, and work stoppage for both
FIFAPA I and II. It also led to the substitution of grant monies to pay for
subproject components previously earmarked for FIFAPA financing. Despite this
substitution (para. 4.13), which contradicted the self-financing objectives of
the FIFAPA operation, Bank staff believed (wrongly, as it turned out) that the
economic crisis would only reinforce the Government policy of reduced grant
financing (para. 3.23). "Under the present financial difficulties the
Government's policy is to reduce net public outlays. FIFAPA will be used to
introduce on a large scale the concept of cost recovery in water supply and
sewerage projects. Therefore, it is expected that FIFAPA share of sector
financing will be increased to about 80% during the forthcoming year".W
3.33           In most circumstances, the financial crisis, the funding
constraints on FIFAPA, and the work stoppages of FIFAPA I and II would have
constituted grounds for the Bank to defer loan processing until there was an
2&1 Iki,p. 44p ,puan. 8.19-8.21.
22/  M., SR FlIAPA I (Repoit No. 4007-ME), dated April 19, 1983, p. 4, pan. 2.14.



- 15 -
improvement in the policy environment. However, in the case of this loan,
besides believing that the crisis provided an opportunity to extend FIFAPA
financing on a large scale, the Bank, it seems, decided that the timing of
approval should be part of a larger demonstration of Bank confidence in the
future of Mexico and the ability and commitment of the Government to address
its problems. While this may well have been justified when assessed against
the macroeconomic context of the times, the strategy war not clearly spelled
out in the Appraisal Report.
3.34           The basic sector policy context of FIFAPA II continued under
FIFAPA III. Remaining unchanged were the: (i) target service levels for the
year 2000; (ii) policy and plans for improving the water/population mismatch;
(iii) health and disease-prevention objectives of water policy; and (iv) the
"decentralization policy" -- that is, transferring the ownership and operation
of Federal WSS systems to states and municipalities, strengthening the
management, efficiency, and finances of local operators and limiting the roles
of Federal agencies, especially their financing and operating roles (paras.
3.17-3.18).
3.35           The objectives of FIFAPA III supported the above sector policy
context and closely paralleled those of FIFAPA II: furthering the "decentrali-
zation policy" (with emphasis on a state water company--SWC); improving the
infrastructure and health and onvironmental conditions of medium size cities;
improvingj' the health conditions in Sinaloa statel and improving the
efficiency of FIFAPA and PIU/SEDUE. The last objective would be achieved by
purchasing support equipment, carrying out studies to establish best solutions
to sector problems (metering and water quality), and reviewing SEDUE's
guidelines for project preparation (para. 3.40). In design, FIFAPA III
differed from FIFAPA II by: (i) including an SWC, the Sinaloa Water Board
(CEAPAS), among the beneficiaries: (ii) eliminating the beneficiary selection
criteria; (iii) refining the subproject-selection criteria; (iv) and
increasing in nominal terms the relending rate. It also differed from FIFAPA
II by including a health education program in the State of Sinaloa.
3.36           Under FIFAPA III, arrangements with respect to borrower,
executing agency, beneficiaries, and subproject selection criteria paralleled
those under FIFAPA I and II. BANOBRAS, as the borrower, would relend Bank and
Federal budgetary resources through FIFAPA to beneficiaries which included:
(i) a group of local operators serving medium-size cities (Celaya, Colima, Cd.
Guzman, and Tapachula); and (ii) CEAPAS (para. 3.35), an autonomous agency for
the State of Sinaloa regulating five semi-autonomous regional companies (RCs -
- Culiacan, Los Mochis, Mazatlan, and Topolobampo) (Loan 2281-ME, LA, Secs.
3.01 & 3.02). BANOBRAS would again be the financial agent of the Government
and wold perform the same duties as previously under FIFAPA I and FIFAPA II
(paras. 3.07 and 3.24). SEDUE, which took the place of SAHOP as executing
agency (para. 2.13), would: (i) carry out the project through a properly
staffed special unit (PIU) in charge of appraisals and supervision; and (ii)
provide training to the beneficiaries to meet the spe cific needs of their
project-connected personnel (Loan 2281-ME, GA, Secs. 3.01, 4.02 & 4.03).
There was provision for the assignment of the implementation responsibility to
the beneficiaries (Loan 2281-ME, GA, 3.01). As under FIFAPA II, there was no
provision for beneficiary participation in the project-preparation process and
30/ Ibid., p. 11, par. 5.03.



- 16 -
because of the initially positive implementation experience of FIFAPA II in
1981 (para. 4.11), Bank staff proposed no measures to strengthen coordination
between PIU/SAHOP (later PIU/SEDUE) and FIFAPA (paras. 3.12 and 3.20).
3.37           Project selection criteria replaced beneficiary selection
criteria. Under FIFAPA II, all beneficiaries had to be located in the regions
selected in the PNDU (para. 3.16). Reference to the PNDU as selection
criteria for either beneficiary or subproject does not appear in the Loan
Agreement, although the SAR says: "Subprojects in all beneficiary cities have
been selected in accordance with the priorities set forth in the National
Urban Development Plan".W In addition to repeating the requirements for
least-cost solutions and conformity with the SEDUE guidelines, the project
selection criteria required that subprojects have: (i) internal rates of
return ranging from at leaot 11% for cities with populations above 50,000 and
to at least 6% for cities with populations below 50,000 (but above 10,000);
(ii) a per-capita expenditure limit of US$200 for cities with a population
below 10,000; and (iii) in the event that none of the above criteria applied,
a demonstrable health benefit for a population suffering from lack of adequate
WSS facilities. Also included among the selection criteria was the
requirement that the subproject be carried out by a municipal or state
operator (Loan 2281-ME, LA, Sch. 2, Annex). BANOBRAS agreed to include in the
sub-loan agreements the same covenants on revenues, audits, subproject
timetables, etc., as were agreed under FIFAPA II (para. 3.25). CEAPAS would
relend its funds to the RCs under the same terms and conditions received from
FIFAPA (Loan 2281-ME, LA, Sch. 4). Sub-loans would bear an interest rate of
25% and would be repaid in 15 years plus a grace period of up to four years
(Loan 2281-MB, LA, Sch. 4).
3.38           As anticipated during the preparation of FIFAPA II, the
Government issued (1980) a decree inaugurating a policy of transferring
Federal WSS facilities, many of which lacked effective managements, to an SWC.
Including as a beneficiary a suitable SWC, through which FIFAPA funding might
pass to benefit small operators, would reinforce the decentralization of the
sector and broaden the impact of FIFAPA on sector financing. Grouping the WSS
facilities of small, scattered cities into an SWC offered many advantages for
establishing a uniform financing system, economies of scale, proper project
supervision, etc. Further, it was the only way to provide these small systems
with the management and project-implementation capabilities without which
FIFAPA funding would be an impossibility. It was expected that this pilot
operation would provide useful lessons which could be applied to future
projects.
3.39           A major issue was the relending rate, which, even at 25%, was
far below the 1982 rate of inflation (98.9%) and below the rate of interest on
short-term commercial paper (56.2%). The Bank position was:
...the only feasible way to reduce Government subsidies to the
water sector was to progressively establish the concepts of cost-
recovery and to substitute grant funds by interest-bearing loans
....While we support the idea of positive interest rates, we feel
that at this time such rates would result in formidable pressures
by the municipalities for reversion to grant funds. FIFAPA has
aJj &W., p. 14, pam. 5.10.



- 17 -
agreed to increase its lending rate from 9 percent to 25 percent
.Also, the Government, which was financing 93 percent of the
sector investments through grants or interest free loans until
recently, has shifted 70 percent of funds for the sector to inter-
est bearing loans through FIFAPA.  Thus, while under the Bank loan
FIFAPA would be lending at subsidized rates, the subsidies to the
sector would be reduced substantially".f
By- not insisting on a positive or at least adjustable relending interest rate,
the Bank was making an important, short-term concession to Mexican authorities
(para. 3.26) because it expected that FIFAPA financing would constitute 80% of
sector investments in the forthcoming year (para. 3.32).
3.40  ,        As defined in the Loan Agreement (2281-ME, Sch. 2), FIFAPA III
would consist of: Part A -- a pilot program for CEAPAS consisting of the
construction of WSS sub-projects benefiting RCs in the state of Sinaloa
(paras. 3.35 and 3.36), an institutional development program for CEAPAS, and a
health education program in Sinaloa that could be replicated in other states
throughout the country; Part B -- provision of new and improved water supply
facilities, laboratory equipment, transmission pipelines, domestic and
production metering facilities, sewer interceptors and outfalls, sewage
pumping stations and sewage treatment plants in medium-size cities (paras.
3.35 and 3.36); and Part C -- institutional support, including efficiency
studies of the sector and operational equipment, to Direccion General de
Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado (DIGESAPA) of SEDUE and FIFAPA..
3.41           According to the SAR, the highest risk to the project
pertained to the implementation of the institutional development program at
CEAPAS and the RCs. In the past, the choice of consultants had been subject
to difficulties and the success of the programs depended on the willingness of
the beneficiaries to implement the recommendations. It was expected that
Improvement in the organization of SEDUE would diminish this risk.   Another
risk derived from the slow preparation of new subprojects by SEDUE due to
repeated changes within its administration and reorganization of the sector by
the new Administration. The more expensive terms of the FIFAPA loans might
lead some beneficiaries to withdraw from the project, thereby requiring their
replacement with new subprojects. "This risk is limited as grants would be
lower than in previous administration due to the new government policy in the
sector... In addition, SEDUE has a long list of potential beneficiaries". V
If the FIFAPA operation was to achieve its economic and financial objectives,
it was important for the Bank to monitor annually grant financing as a percent
of total sector financing; however, in the subsequent supervision of the
project, the Bank did not address this subject.
3.42           The project cost was estimated at US$192.80 million: US$67.85
million for the CEAPAS component (Part A); US$120.53 million for the medium
size cities component (Part B); and US$4.42 million for the support component
(Part C) (after a pro-rate distribution of price contingencies). Loan 2281-ME
(US$100.3 million) would cover the foreign exchange cost plus US$0.3 million
for the Bank front-end fee. Because BANOBRAS, the borrower, was strong
2Vk;dmu lterm  Mmo, dated May 12,1983, pam. 5.
S/ JSm. SAR FIFAPA m, p. 29, pam. 7.14.



- 18 -
financially, the loan, as for FIFAPA II, included no financing for interest
during construction. The implementation period was expected to extend from
early 1984 to December 1989. The expected closing date for the Loan was June
30, 1990.
4.   Implementation
4.01           The FIFAPA Operation:  As one FIFAPA loan followed another,
Bank and Mexican officials came to think of the three projects as a single
project, consisting of a succession of water and sewerage works executed in
various cities supported and financed by three loans (see Part II). Works
identified under the first loan were financed and executed under the second
loan; supplies identified under the second loan were financed by the first
loan. Works identified under the second loan were completed with financing
under the third loan. Procedurally, the succession of loans effectively
required the identification and negotiation of new activities at mid-stream.
In other words, there was a continuing process of subproject identification
and financing. Notwithstanding such thinking, each project was presented to
the Board based on its individual merits and for the purposes of this report,
the actual timetable, cost, and beneficiaries of each project will be compared
with the corresponding appraisal data.
4.02           FIFAPA I: Timetable and Cost.  The Bank declared the first
loan (1186-ME; US$40.0 million) effective on April 26, 1976, slightly more
than three months after signing, January 13, 1976.  FIFAPA, the funding
mechanism, was initially capitalized at US$100 million, including the Bank
loan. The first sub-loan agreement was signed in early 1977 and construction
began in late 1977. However, as shown below, project progress, i.e., the
preparation of additional subprojects, the signing of corresponding sub-loan
agreements, and the implementation of subprojects, moved at a very slow rate
prior to 1979. Project completion coincided with loan closing (January 14,
1984), about four years later than expected (Part III, Table 2), by which time
FIFAPA II was under way and the loan for FIFAPA III was about to be declared
effective.
4.03           Schedule I on the next page shows the appraisal, revised, and
actual cost of the projects, as well as individual subproject cost estimates
and completion dates expected at appraisal. All project costs reflect then
current prices and exchange rates. Column 1 shows that at appraisal the total
project cost was expected to amount to US$90.0 million; the last three
subprojects were expected to be completed by December 1979. Column 2 shows
revised estimates of costs and completion dates as per the sub-loan contracts.
In 1978, after deletions and additions of subprojects, the total project cost
was estimated at US$95.7 million; completion for the last three projects was
expected by December 1980. In 1981, reflecting then current prices and
exchange rates, the total project cost was estimated US$78.2 million. Column
3 shows the actual project cost as of loan closing in January 1984 at US$76.5
million (See Part III, Table 3.1). The appraisal, revised and forecast costs
are not comparable as a result of additions and deletions which reduced the
scope of the project. Two beneficiaries withdrew from the project and only
one joined the project; subprojects not completed (Tampico, Reynosa, Cd.
Victoria, and Morelia) at the closing of Loan 1186-ME were transferred to
FIFAPA II; the financing of materials procured for FIFAPA II was transferred
from Loan 1913-ME to Loan 1186-ME. Another factor making comparability
difficult was the appreciation (48.2%) of the Mexican peso relative to the US



- 19 -
dollar between 1977 and January 1984 am measured by the diverging trends of
domestic inflation and of exchange rates.N There is insufficient data to
restate current prices at the price level of January 1975.
Schedule I
FIFAPA I: Cost (without taxes or interest) -- Aooraisal. Contract. and Actual
(in millions of US dollars, stated in current prices)
C1)              C2)               (3)
Appralsal         Contract           Actual
Coop.                Coup.         Comp.
Cost   Date       Cost     Date     Cost Date
(1978 (1981
A. Sub-project                       prfcas) prices)
Cd. Victoria         4.62  12/79    9.28  7.75  12/80    8.27 06/82  1/
Nexicali            21.63  12/78   10.48  9.26  03/80    9.64 01/81
lorelia              6.94  10/78   4.62  4.07  06/79    3.81 01/81  1/
Reynosa             14.37  12/77   21.37 17.49  12/80   14.15 12/82  1/
Tuxtla-Gutierrez     8.59  12/79    4.46  3.95  12/7a    3.96 12/80
Tampico             21.63  12/77   29.9 22.63  12/80   12.92 12/83  1/
Sub-totaL        77.78          80.20 65.15           52.75
Additions
Culfacan                            15.02 12.55 06/81    13.01 12/83
SuppLy Program                                           10.81 01/84  2/
Deetions
Jalapa               7.43  09/77
Salmanca             3.96  12/79
Sub-total        11.39
Total, Sub-projects 89.17          95.22 77.70           76.57
S. Training Program      0.83  06/80    0.50  0.50   N.A.    0.00          3/
Total, Project      90.00          f  7 78020            765
* Source: "Supervision Report", dated October 7, 1981, Arrex 7.
1/ AefLects expenditures excluding works transferred to FIFAPA It.
2/ Reflects expenditures for materfals transferred from FIFAPA II to FIFAPA I.
3/ Reflects no disbursaments from Loan 1186-HE for training.
4.04                  Proiect Implementation.   In 1976  and  1977, project progress
fell well behind schedule due to the inadequacy of institutional arrangements
(para. 3.07) for implementing the project and the lukewarm response of the
beneficiaries to the concepts of cost recovery and least-cost planning
principles By year-end 1977, two beneficiaries (Jalapa, Salamanca) had
withdrawn from the project due to reluctance to adjust tariffs as required
under the tariff/revenue covenant of the proposed sub-loan agreement; and only
three beneficiaries had signed  sub-loan agreem-nts.   Construction of only one
subproject (Mexicali) was just beginning at the end of 1977.
4.05                 The  inadequacies of the  institutional  arrangements,  which had
many aspects, were both short term and long term. During most of 1976, there
34/ Between 1977 and January 1984, the appreciaion of the peso has been mueasured by rlating the percentage increae of
domtic prices to the percentage change in the rte of exchange. The values for the consumer pnce index for 1977
(averge) and January 1984 are, respectively, 8S.1 and 814.8; the index is: 814.818S.1 - 9.S75. The values for the rate of
eaxange for 1977 (avenge) and January 1984 are, repectively, USS1.00:MEXS22.6 and USS1.00:MEXS146.01; the index
is: 146.01/22.6 - 6.461. Hence, during this period, the appreciation of the peso wu: (9.575/6.461) - 1 - 48.2%.



- 20 -
was uncertainty about the role and authority of SRH plus frequent management
changes. The short-term uncertainty was resolved in December 1976 when the
Government replaced SRH with SAHOP (para. 2.11).
4.06            The longer-term problems at SRH/SAHOP included: (i) poor
internal organization at SRH/SAHOP; (ii) deficient leadership and staffing at
the PIUS (iii) poor coordination between SRH/SAHOP and BANOBRAS; and (iv) the
failure of BANOBRAS to discuss loan conditions with local authorities at an
early stage of the project cycle. The appraisal work of SRH/SAHOP reflected
poor internal organization -- that is, the various departments (engineering,
market, etc.) tended to carry out their functions without proper coordination.
Because the engineering group often ignored least-cost principles and failed
to consult the intended beneficiaries, the Bank found that, again and again,
projects were designed without regard to cost, the capacity of the community
to pay, or the ability of the local technicians to operate the project.
4.07            Concerning the PIU, in theory, the unit was independent within
SRH/SAHOP, possessing the authority and staff to monitor and coordinate
project preparation and implementation by other departments. The reality was
different: the various units within SRH/SAHOP feuded to gain control of the
PIU, and they cooperated poorly with the PIU in carrying out duties important
to timely subproject preparation (poor appraisal work and late completion of
detailed engineering designs). Despite assurances from the Government gained
during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations (para. 3.07), the PIU lacked
adequate leadership and properly qualified staff to complete project
preparation.M' The shortcomings of the PIU were made more complex by
frequent personnel and management changes. In these circumstances, staff of
the PIU usually required considerable time to complete the satisfactory
evaluation of subprojects.
4.08            In October 1976, the Bank informed SRH of its concern about
the departmental feuding and the shortcomings at the PIU, and SRH assured the
Bank that adequate corrective action would be taken.& Nothing came of these
assurances before the Government replaced SRH with SAHOP in December 1976. In
early 1977, the Bank considered the idea of BANOBRAS's assuming the role of
executing agent.37 The Bank did not press this idea while SAHOP was
organizing. At the end of 1977, still concerned about the poor organization
of SAHOP and the,shortcomings at the PIU, the Bank considered but did not
adopt the options of: (a) merging the PIU into the SAHOP Projects Department
and (b) amending the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Loan 1186-ME to permit
the beneficiaries to employ engineering consultants to design water and
sewerage systems and to supervise construction. In early 1978, the Bank
suggested that the top management of SAHOP should: (i) appoint a senior
engineer to the PIU to act as an adviser; (Ui) introduce a procedure at an
early stage of project processing to examine the capacity of a community to
pay for a proposed project; and (iii) form of a special group to complete the
21 World Bank: Internal Bank Memo, dated October 19, 1976. pam. 2.
6 1M., Leter to SRH, dated October 21, 1976.
D1/ dM., Memo to Filea, Atachment A, dat Februaiy 24, 1977.



- 21 -
task of preparing project preparation guidelines.  SAHOP made personnel
changes corresponding to these suggestions (para. 4.10).
4.09            Also delaying the project were poor cooperation, even
rivalries, between SRH/SAHOP and BANOBRAS and the late timing of sub-loan
negotiations on the part of BANOBRAS. In 1976, the rivalries became so
intense that Bank staff thought that BANOBRAS might be attempting to replace
SRH as the executing agency. Later, BANOBRAS informed the Bank (1978) that it
would form a technical committee to correct the poor coordination with SAHOP,
which would continue as the executing agency.-& After two of the potential
beneficiaries withdrew from the project, BANOBRAS did very little to recruit
new beneficiaries. The poor cooperation of 1977 and 1978 took the form of the
strict sequencing of the various stages of the project rather than carrying
them out on a phased or simultaneous basis. For example, BANOBRAS would not
start negotiations until after SAHOP had completed the subproject feasibility
study to the satisfaction or the Bank; and SAHOP would not issue bidding
documents until after BANOBRAS had completed its sub-loan negotiations.
4.10            By the end of 1978, project progress had improved.  Five
beneficiaries had signed loan agreements and construction was underway. Two
more contracts were expected to be signed in the near term. Personnel changes
suggested by the Bank (para. 4.08) resulted in improved work at the PIU and
the cessation of departmental feuding. Further, SAHOP issued acceptable
project preparation guidelines based on least-cost principles and contracted
consultants to prepare timely feasibility studies based on its guidelines
(para. 3 21).  SAHOP promised to improve its non-project supervision of
beneficiaries, as they needed assistance in solving pending problems in
administration, finance, and operations. A Bank supervision mission advised
BANOBRAS and SAHOP to improve their coordination and the programming of their
activities -- starting loan negotiations with state/municipal at an earlier
stage in the project cycle, calling for bids before the completion of
negotiations, etc.
4.11            In 1979-1981, having overcome the project-preparation and
interagency coordination problems which had delayed the project,5 SAHOP and
BANOBRAS were successfully implementing FIFAPA I; project completion was
expected by August 1982.a/ Also during this period, the Bank, together with
SAHOP and BANOBRAS, successfully prepared FIFAPA II (paras. 3.15 to 3.29).
Following the withdrawal of Jalpa and Salamanca, the municipality of Culiacan
was added as a beneficiary, resulting in seven cities participating instead of
the eight expected at appraisal. The final two sub-loan agreements (Tampico,
Reynosa) were signed in early 1979. Construction of the subprojects at Cd.
Victoria and Culiacan began between February and November 1979, about three
years late; and ended by late 1981, about eighteen months late. Construction
for the subprojects at Tampico and Reynosa also started in 1979 and completion
was expected by the end of 1982 and then extended to 1983 because of technical
31/ Lm, Bank Letter to SAHOP, dated January 17, 1978.
S2/ 4m., Intena Bank Meno, pam. 3, dat January 18, 1978.
4  M., 'Supervsion Report, Annex S, p. 1, pmr. 2, dae Mach 3, 1980.
A1/ L&m., "Supeviuion Report', Annex 7, p. 1, pam. 1, dad June 2, 1981.



- 22 -
and contract problems in connection with the water treatment plants at Tampico
and slow progress by the local water authority at Reynosa in constructing
house connections.9' In order to make allowance for these delays, the Bank
agreed to extend the closing date for the loan to January 14, 1984.9'
4.12           The first two supervision missions of 1982 (March and August)
reported satisfactory project progress: disbursements of Loan 1183-ME amounted
to US$27.7 million (69%) as of January 1982 and US$28.8 million (72%) as of
June 1982; SAHOP selected a consultant to implement a satisfactory technical
assistance program to strengthen the beneficiaries; five of the seven subpro-
jects were completed; completion of the subprojects at Reynosa and Tampico was
expected by June 1983. When it was found that solving the problems of the
water treatment plants at Tampico would extend completion beyond the new loan
closing date, the Bank and BANOBRAS agreed in principle to transfer the
financing of the treatment plants to Loan 1913-ME. To assure full
disbursement of Loan 1186-ME, they agreed to expand the scope of the
subprojects at Culiacan and Cd. Victoria with completion expected by June
1983."'
4.13           In the third calendar quarter of 1982, just prior to a change
of Administrations, an economic and financial crisis engulfed Mexico, which in
due course led to a fundamental re-thinking of the national development
strategy (paras. 2.16 and 2.17). The third supervision mission of 1982
(October) reported that: (i) project progress for FIFAPA I and II had
completely stopped in June/July 1982 due to non-payment of contractors; fnd
(ii) sharp reductions of the budget allocation to FIFAPA had led BANOBRAS to
make payments to contractors with available Federal grant money (about Mex$700
million) for components scheduled to be financed with FIFAPA loans. (The Bank
would not agree to the application of the proceeds of its loans to these
components unless the grants were transformed into loans.)  Also due to
budget reductions, SAHOP top management, which had been deferring decisions
pending the inauguration of President de La Madrid (December 1, 1992), had
substantially reduced supervision activities. By December 1982, the organiza-
tional setting of the project was made more complex by the replacement of
SAHOP with SEDUE. This resulted in changes in personnel charged with
responsibility for the project. Staffing problems at SEDUE emerged similar to
those experienced by SAHOP prior to 1979.
4.14            As part of a larger Bank-wide "Special Action Program" to
help revitalize the economies of borrowing countries and to ensure full
disbursement of Loan 1193-ME without further extension of the closing date,
the Bank (January 1983): (i) reallocated the proceeds of category 3
(unallocated) to category 1 (equipment, materials, civil works, etc.); (ii)
increased the disbursement percentage from 40% to 100% to cover equipment
costs (foreign currency) and from 40% to 70% to cover the cost of civil works,
engineering and subproject administration (local currency); and (iii) shifted
the: (a) financing (US$8.7 million) of civil works construction at Tampico,
house connections at Reynosa, and subproject expansion at Culiacan and Cd.
1 dM., "Supervision Report", Annex 7, p. 2, dated March 10, 1982.
_4/ 1£m., Bank telex to BANOBRAS, dated January 6, 1982.
4U Ibm., Bank Ltcer to BANOBRAS, p. 2, dated Augu 13, 1982.



- 23 -
Victoria under FIFAPA I (Loan 1186-ME) to FIFAPA II (Loan 1913-ME) and (b)
financing of materials (US$8.3 million) under FIFAPA II to FIFAPA I.  Items
(ii) and (iii) were part of a "Special Action Program", which was also applied
to Loan 1913-ME.
4.15           As a result of the unavailability of counterpart funds,
implementation of FIFAPA I and II remained paralyzed for several months during
1983. The major accomplishment of that year was the completion of the
technical assistance program, except for training related to unaccounted-for
water losses. Coordination problems between BANOBRAS and SEDUE re-emerged.
After extending the closing date from December 31, 1980 to January 14, 1982
and then to January 14, 1984, the Bank closed the loan which was almost fully
disbursed (US$39.79 million). The undisbursed balanced of US$0.21 million was
canceled. The last disbursement was on May 23, 1984. Part III, Tables 4 and
5.1 compare actual and forecast schedules for the timing of disbursements and
the allocation of loan proceeds.
4.16           FIFAPA II: Timetable and Cost.  The Bank approved the second
FIFAPA loan (1913-ME; US$125.0 million) on November 4, 1980, but effectiveness
was delayed until June 23, 1981 -- about eight months -- because of slow
action on the part of the Government in fulfilling a routine requirement --
namely, providing legal opinion. on the loan documents. At appraisal, project
completion was expected as of June 30, 1984 and loan closing was scheduled for
December 31, 1984.  The actual project completion date coincided with the loan
closing date, which was almost two years late: November 30, 1986.
4.17           Schedule 2 on the next page shows how the number of
subprojects, their cost estimates and completion dates varied between October
1980 and November 1986, when the loan was closed. The cost values are stated
in US dollars and reflect then current prices and rates of exchange. Column 1
of Schedule 2 shows that as of October 1980 the project cost estimate was
US$296 million (excluding value added tax of US$21 million): US$208.9 million
for subprojects with approved feasibility reports and US$87.1 million for
subprojects, the feasibility reports of which were pending. All subprojects
were expected to be completed by December 1983. Column 2 shown that in April
1981 the cost estimate on subprojects with approved feasibility studies
amounted to US$175.4 million. The subproject at Tepic was expected to be
withdrawn; feasibility studies for other subprojects were still pending. The
completion of the last subproject was expected by December 1984. Columns 3
through 6 show additional adjustments in the cost estimates and completion
dates for the subprojects a. the project scope was expanded and reduced. The
actual project cost (Column 7) was US$115.9 million (Part III, Table 3.2) and
is not comparable with the forecast cost due to reduction in the scope of the
project (1983), elimination of some subprojects (1986), and transfer of
uncompleted subprojects from Loan 1913-ME to 2281-ME (1986). Also
contributing to the reduced project scope was the construction of subprojects
with Federal grants. Another factor accounting for lower project cost in US
dollars was the depreciation by 29% of the Mexican peso relative to the US
_q/ 1km., Intenal Bank Memo, dated December 7, 1982.



24 -
Sch duLe 2
FIFAPA II: Cost (excluding taxes and interest) -- Appraisal, Revisd, and ActuaL
(in millions of US doltars, stated in current prices)
(4)   7/
(1)                            (2) 3/                      (3) 5/               Reduced Project Scope as Per
Appraisal (10/80)                Revised (04/81)             Revised (10/ 82)           Rank Letter of 07/15/83
Adjusted
Per-                       Per-                Cost,   Per-                   Cost
cent      Ori-             cent    Con-   Exchange-  cent                    as per               Cost
Ori-     X)      ginat   Con-       CX)    tract    Rate        MX)      Revised   Original              as per
ginat  Comple.   Comp.   tract   Comple.  Coup.        Adj-   Cople.   Coop.        Sub-loan             Reduced
Cost   T 1/A 2/  Date    Cost    T   A    Date        usted   T   A       Date 6/   Contract  30/4/83   Scope
Sub-projects
Totuca              36.14  MA  MA   12/82       35.44   15  6   06/83       19.90   80 45    12/83          21.28    14.32    21.30
Tepic                5.3             09/82                            4/    9.40    0  0    09/85            6.80      0.00     6.80
Nogales             12.00            12/82      10.24    1  1   12/83        5.90   65 60    06/83           6.55      5.31      6.60
Monclova            11.71            12/82       9.92    1  1   12/83        7.90   35 32    06/84          12.18      2.98      8.50
Matamoros           32.50            12/83      26.16    1  2   12/83       15.30   60 45    12/84          28.43      5.77    28.40
Ouertero            32.30            12/83      28.32    2  3   09/83       16.60   65 45    12/83          31.18    11.98    23.80
Cd. Juarez          78.52            12/83      64.96    5  0   12/84       28.90   35 40    12/84          81.99    13.39    41.40
.. .... a                  a ...                                                         .....   ......   ....
Sub-total       208.90                      175.04                      103.90                          188.41    53.75   136.80
Additions/Other    87.10             12/82-3  No information               194.10                           95.20      0.00    63.00
*..X.SSSan                                                                              ...... .  . . ..    ...   ......
Zacatecas                                                                   10.00    0  0    06/85           7.60      0.00      7.60
Cozumel                                                                     12.10    0  0    09/84          10.60      0.00    10.30
Tapi co                                                                     38.60    0  0    12/85          53.00      0.00    25.00
Reynosa                                                                     10.00    0  0    12/84          12.00      0.00      8.10
Culaican                                                                     5.80    0  0    12/84           3.00      0.00      3.00
Cd. Victoria                                                                 5.80    0  0        ---         2.90      0.00      2.90
ChiLpancingo                                                                10.80    0  0    09/85           6.10      0.00      6.10
Merida                                                                     11o.U0                ---          ---       ---
sss=ssa             ~~~~amouan=ssasss.                                                     asan  .a.....
TotaL         296.00                      175.04                      298.00                          283.61    53.75   199.80
(5)   8/                    (6)      10/             (7)  11/
Revised  (04//84)         Revised (01/85)          Actual (04/92)    Footnotes:
1/ T: Target percent completed.
Cost,  Per-               Cost,    Per-                                   2/ A: Actual percent coapleted.
Exchange  cent       Revi- Exchange   cent                                   3/ Source: "Supervision Report" (SR),
Rate   CX)        sed     Rate       CX)      Revise                         dated 06/02/81, Annex 7, pps. 10-11.
Adj-   Coop.      Comp.    adj-      Cop.    Coop.             Cop.       4/ Due to lack of interest on part of
usted   T   A      Date    usted      T   A    Date    Cost   Date            state  officials, it appeared as if
_   _                       _ -  -  -   -  -     -       -            Tepfc would be dropped from project.
Sub-projects                                                                                  5/ Source: SR, 12/03/82, Annex 7,
Attachments 1 * 2
Toluca              20.18  100 60   12/85       21.31  100  90  03/86       15. 99  03/86     6/ Revised to reflect iupct of delay.
Tepic                5.65   32  8   12/85        2.94   75  55  12/85        2.22  09/85      7/ To reduce project cost to upper limit
ldogales              5.76  100 75   12/4         7.55  100  91  06/85        5.60  06/85         of US#200 million, as requested by
Monclova             9.54  100 27   12/85       12.65  100  50  12/85        6.89  12/85          Government, Bank and SANOBRAS agreed
Matamoros           21.17    8  8   09/87 9/  29.90   21  32  12/86         10.98  09/87          to reduce scope of sub-projects at
Quertero            28.55  100 63   12/84       28.70  100  88  09/85       20.98  09/85         Monclav, Quertero, Tmpico,  nd
Cd. Juarez          33.57   29 29   09/87 9/  33.14   41  58  12/86         22.12  09/87         Reynosa.  Due to severe macroeconomic
_  ......                   *-a- -                problems, Governrmnt was unable to
sub-total       124.42                      136.19                       84.78                fund FIFAPA with the result that con-
-                          *  -s -sa...                 =~-u                  tractors were not being paid and work
Additions/Other    53.20                        65.07                       31.12                was not continuing.
8/ Source: SR, 06/25/54, Annex 7,
Zacatecas            7.89   38  3   09/86        9.88   90  37  09/86        3.93                Attachments 1 & 2
CozumeL              8.58   37  3   09/86       15.05   91  15  09/86        7.86             9/ Implementation schedules revised to
Tampico             19.42   31  0   09/87       23.36   63  49  12/86       12.32                 reflect reduced project scope.
Reynosa              7.01   80  0   03/86        6.65  100  45  03/86        4.87            10/ Source: SR, 05/16/85, Annex 7, Attach-
Culiacan             2.83  100  0   12/85        3.49  100   0  03/86        0.69                ments 2 & 3.
Cd. Victoria         2.73  100  0   06/85        3.02  100  44  09/85        1.47            11/ Source: BANOIRAS.
Chilpancingo         4.74   30  0   06/86        3.62   70   0  12/86        ---
Merida               ...    -- --
_ ...... .                  ........ .           .       5. --.-
Total         177.62                     201.26                       115.90



- 25 -
dollar as measured by the trends of domestic inflation and exchange rates over
the period June 1980 to November 1986.!' Data is not available for restating
the actual project cost on a constant-price basis.
4.18           Proiect Implementation.  The supervision missions of 1981
(April and September) reported the project to be progressing normally, if
slightly behind schedule -- that is, designs were being finalized, subprojects
approved (Toluca, Nogales, Monclova, Matamoros, Queretaro, and Cd. Juarez),
respective sub-loans signed, and construction initiated (see Schedule 2 on
following page). The supervision mission of June 1982 reviewed and approved
the feasibility studies for Zacatecas, Cozumel, Tepic, and Chilpancingo,
extension of the scope of the subprojects in Tampico, Reynosa, and extension
of the scope of the subprojects of Ciudad Victoria and Culiacan (part of
FIFAPA I but later transferred to FIFAPA II with financing under Loan 1913-
ME). The supervision mission of October 1982 reported subproject work
stoppages beginning in June/July 1982 due to non-payment of contractors, the
substitution of Federal grants to pay for FIFAPA loans, and the reorganization
and personnel turnover at SAHOP (para. 4.13).
4.19           The mission of November 1982 also revised the cost and
completion dates of the subprojects to take account of prior delays (Schedule
2). Because of the rapid change in the rate of exchange of the peso against
the US dollar since 1980 (June 1980: US$l.00:Mex$22.8; November 1982: US$1.00:
Mex$70.0), the costs of the individual subprojects stated in US dollars were
decreasing as compared with what had been expected. For example, at appraisal
the cost of the sub-project at Toluca was expected to be US$36.14 milli6n; the
revised cost was US$19.90 million.
4.20           As stated in pesos, because of very rapid inflation, the costs
of the individual subprojects were rapidly increasing, requiring time-
consuming renegotiation to amend the original sub-loan agreements. Even
though all construction contracts included a price adjustment formula, updated
monthly, BANOBRAS sub-loans were in set amounts, not adjusted for inflation
and thus needed to be renegotiated. The process of renegotiation itself
generated discord among all participants, most notably over three contentious
issues: (a) increased interest rate, which almost trebled from 9% to 25% (even
though it continued to be highly negative in real terms); (b) discrepancies in
total subproject cost as defined in the feasibility studies prepared by the
implementing agency which drastically underestimated inflation; and (c)
compliance with previous sub-loan covenants, particularly tariff increases,
perceived by the beneficiaries as excessively high and thus even more
unpopular than normal.
4 'The depreciation of the peso relative to US dollar during the period June 1980 to November 1986 has becn measured by
comparing the domestic price index to the rate of exchange index. Th valucs for the consumer price index for June 1980
and November 1986 are, respectively, 147.3 and 3807.5; the index is: 3807.5/147.3 = 25.849. The values for the rte of
exchange for June 1980 and November 1986 are, respetivcly, USS1.00:MexS22.8 and USS1.00:MexS830.6; the index is:
830.6/22.8 = 36.430. During this period, the appreciaion of the peso was: (25.849J36.430) - 1 =- 29.0%.



- 26 -
4.21           During 1983, besides the "Special Action Program"E' and the
transfer of subprojects from FIFAPA I to FIFAPA II (para. 4.14),!W the Bank,
at the request of or in agreement with BANOBRAS and SEDUE:
(i)  reduced the scope and cost of the project to US$200 million
primarily, but not solely, through the deletion of the Merida
subproject (see Schedule 2) (July);1' and
(ii) amended the Loan and Guarantee Agreements to create a Special
Account for the purpose of facilitating disbursements
(November) .
Based on: (i), the Bank, BANOBRAS, and SEDUE also formulated a comprehensive
"Plan of Action" which set dates for: (a) renegotiation of all sub-loan
contracts to reflect reduced project scope (September 1983); (b) receipt of
information on counterpart financing to be provided by the Government and
resolution of the coordination problems between BANOBRAS, SEDUE, and the
Government (July 1983); and (c) compliance'with respect to the various
financial covenants (levels of tariffs and accounts receivable, etc. by
December 1984). Nevertheless, work did not resume at any of the subprojects
for the first several months of 1983 for lack of counterpart funds. A
supervision mission (September 1983) noted that work had resumed at a slow
pace for ten of the fourteen subprojects, and that FIFAPA had made some
progress toward renegotiating the sub-loans. (In April 1983, the Bank
approved Loan 2281-ME.)
4.22           Procurement: Procurement activities in general were carried
out satisfactorily although delays were experienced in the preparation of
documents and their submission to the Bank. These documents often needed to
be modified upon review to bring them in line with Bank procurement policies.
In 1985, during one of the personnel changes of the PIU, new staff, unfamiliar
with Bank procurement procedures, changed procurement procedures with a bias
favoring local suppliers, despite Bank comments and assistance in the review
of tender documents and bid proposals. Accordingly, the Bank threatened to
stop disbursements .I' A general dialogue with Mexican authorities on the
subject finally led to agreement and implementation of satisfactory bidding
procedures for all Bank operations in the country.
4.23           Proiect Progress.  The supervision missions of 1984 reported
good rates of subproject execution and reasonable compliance with the "Plan of
Action", but thereafter progress slowed. In 1985, a major earthquake
devastated Mexico City with adverse impact on the premises and operations of
SEDUE and BANOBRAS. Also, in 1985 and 1986, major organizational and
personnel changes in SEDUE adversely affected implementation. The PIU was
47/ World Bank: Letter to BANOBRAS, dat January 20, 1983.
_4/Idc., Lttr to BANOBRAS, dat Janury 21, 1983.
2/ SM, Lete of BANOBRAS, dated July 15, 1983.
IQ/ I&m., Leter to BANOBRAS, dated November 7, 1983.
1./ 1Idm., Telex to BANOBRAS, dated May 1, 1986.



- 27 -
abolished (1985) and its duties were transferred to existing units within
SEDUE. Since their responsibilities included work outuide the projects, this
organizational change caused serious problems of coordination with BANOBRAS.
Meaningful supervision of beneficiaries and satisfactory reporting effectively
were non-existent. Based on spot checks, it was found that none of the
beneficiaries was in full compliance with sub-loan covenants. SEDUE and
BANOBRAS were not fulfilling the updated "Plan of Action." In addition,
project implementation was further delayed since adequate counterpart funds
had not been allocated to FIFAPA, but Federal grants and contributions were
available. Disbursements from Loan 1913-ME slowed. In such circumstances,
the Bank was unwilling to extend further the closing date as requested by
local officials. Works not concluded under Loan 1913-ME loan were transferred
for financing to Loan 2281-ME. The second medium size cities loan was closed
on November 30, 1986, about two years after the appraisal estimate.
Disbursements amounted to US$75.52 million; the undisbursed balance of
US$49.28 million was canceled. The last disbursement was on August 31, 1987.
Tables 4 and 5.2 compare actual and forecast schedules for the timing of
disbursements and allocation of loan proceeds.
4.24            FIFAPA III: Timetable. Cost. Chanaes. and Interest Rates.
The Bank approved the third FIFAPA loan (2281-ME; US$100.3 million) on May 17,
1983, but effectiveness was delayed until February 27, 1984 -- about nine
months -- because the Government was slow to fulfill effectiveness conditions:
(i) providing legal opinions on the loan documents; (ii) authorizing an
increase of the capital of FIFAPA by US$100 million; and (iii) publishing the
by-laws of CEAPAS (para. 3.31) in the official state gazette. At appraisal,
the expected dates for project completion and loan closing were, respectively,
December 31, 1989 and June 30, 1990. The actual project completion date
coincided with the loan closing date: December 31, 1990. The last
disbursement was on March 13, 1991.
4.25            Schedule 3 on the next page shows the appraisal, revised, and
actual costs of the project, reflecting current prices and exchange rates, and
the corresponding subproject completion dates. Schedule 3 also shows details
for subproject costs. Column 1 of Schedule 3 shows the appraisal cost esti-
mate at US$192.8 million; completion of the last subproject was expected by
December 1987. Columns 2 and 3 show revisions of that cost as new information
became available. Column 4 shows that the actual project cost was US$128.6
million (see also Part III, Table 3.3) and is not comparable with the
appraisal value due to changes and reductions in the scope of the project and
transfers of subprojects initially financed under Loan 1913-ME to Loan 2281-
ME. Another factor making difficult the comparison of the actual and forecast
costs was appreciation (127%) of the peso relative to the US dollar. 2' The
increasing availability of Federal grants to finance subprojects contributed
to the reduced scope of the project as municipalities chose to avoid high-cost
FIFAPA loans.
I The appreciation of the peso relative to the US dollar for the period December 1982 to Decmber 1990 has been
measured by comparing the domestic price index to the rate of exchange index. The values for the consumer price index
for December 1982 and Decenber 1990 are, respectively, 423.8 and 29832.5; the index is 29832.5/423.8 = 70.393. The
correponding values for the rate of exchange are, respectively, USS1.00:Mcx$9S.0 and US$1 .00:Mex$2940.90. The
appreciation of the peso i: (70.393/30.957)- 1 - 127.0%.



- 28 -
Schedule 3
FIFAPA III: Cost (excluding taxes and interest) -- Appraisal. Revised, nd Actual
(in miLlions of US dollars, stated in current prices)
(1)                   (2)  1/                (3)  4 /                   (4) 5/
Appraisal (04/83)       Revised (09/83)         Revised  (05/84)       Revised  (08/84)             Final
Ori-     Cost,                   Cost,                     Cost,
Ori-   ginat   Exchange-               Exchange-                 Exchange-
ginal   Comp.     Rate             Comp.  Rate              Coup.   Rate               Comp.   Actual
Cost    Date      Adj. T 2/ A 3/ Date   AdJ.    T   A    Date    AdJ.    T   A    Date          Cost
A. State Water
Canpany
IDP*              0.00                    NA   mA  03/87           0   0
Supply            3.34  12/8S
HEP**             0.11  12/87                                                          0.30
Sinaloa State                                       12/86           10  0    12/87
Culiacan       30.73  12/86                                                                                      2.20
Los Mochis      8.72  12/85                                                          6.55   5   0   03/87        6.87
Topolobampo     3.05  06/85                                                                                      0.00
Mazatlan       21.90  09/86                                                         15.79  10   0   12/87        6.36
3333333            3333x3  an  33  3ms33   ma333  Z3  an   333        3ama3  an  3E   33        33a
Sub-total for A    67.85              68.50  NA  NA           59.40                     22.64                       15.43
B. Medium-Size
Cities
Cetaya            9.13  09/86        9.10 NA   NA  12/86    ---    --  --    ---        ---    --  --    ---      ...
Colima           10.57  09/86       10.80 NA   NA  12/86    ---    --  --    ---        ---
Cd. Guzman       10.82  12/86       11.60 NA   NA  03/87    9.60   5   0   03/87       7.36   5   0   03/87       ---
Tapachula        10.55  12/85       10.10 NA   NA  12/85    ---    --  --    ...        ---
Sub-total       41.07              41.60 NA   NA            9.60                      7.36                        0.00
Other            79.46  12/86        ---            12/90   97.50                     93.91                      111.50
La Paz                                  MA   NA            6.00   1   0   09/86      5.82   1   0   12/86    Not
Cd. Obregon                             NA   NA           29.70   1   0   09/86    19.82   1   0   03/88    Appli-
Pachuca                                 NA   NA           24.80   5   0   03/87    12.34   5   2   09/87    capbte
AcapuLco                                 NA   NA          31.20  10   0   12/87    31.80  10   1   12/87
Manzanillo                              NA   NA            5.80   0   0   03/88    16.79   0   0   12/87
Pt. Vallarta                            NA   NA            ---    ..  ..    ---      7.34   3   3   03/87
Sub-total for S   120.52               41.6                   107.1                    101.27                      111.50
C. Institutional
Support       4.42  12/87        4.60 NA   NA  03/87    3.40   0   0   12/86       1.00              NA        1.64
3333=33 33*=3       33333                 Na um 3a333   w3333   3. 3    333  ..3   so  n3   33333    3333...
Total        192.80             114.70                  169.90                    124.91                      128.57
1/ "Supervision Report",  dated 10/21/83, Attachments 3 & 6.
2/ T: Target.
3/ A: Actual.
4/ "Supervision Report", dated 06/25/84, Attachments 3 £ 4.
5/ "Supervision Reportu, dated 11/20/84, Attachments 2 & 4.



- 29 -
4.26           In 1985 and 1986, respectively, the project description was
changed (amended) to: (i) substitute the RCc (para. 3.31) in Sinaloa for
CEAPAS as beneficiaries of the institution building component (para. 4.18);
and (ii) provide financing for the reconstruction of Mexico City.& By
agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, there were extensions of the deadline
for disbursements at 70% from 1985 to 1986 to 1988. In 1987, subprojects not
completed with financing under Loan 1913-ME were transferred to Loan 2281-ME:
Culiacan, Matamoros, Monclava, Nogales, Reynosa, Queretero, and Tampico. Only
three of the original eight cities benefitted from the loan (see Schedule 3);
and most of the other beneficiaries (22) borrowed only small sums (Part III,
Table 3.3).
4.27           The substitution of the Sinaloa RCn for CEAPAS as benefici-
aries of the institution building component resulted when a new decree reor-
ganized (February 1984) CEAPAS to conform to Article 115 of the Constitution,
which delegated to municipalities full responsibility for operation and
maintenance of WSS systems. Because this decree deprived CEAPAS of its prior
authority to regulate and coordinate the management and operation of WSS
systems in the state, CEAPAS was no longer a proper vehicle for the pilot
institutional development component of the project. BANOBRAS proposed that
the RCB -- now called "Intermunicipal Companies" -- benefit from this
component. The Bank agreed and made (May 17, 1985) a corresponding amendment
to the Loan Agreement.
4.28           The growing interest expense of FIFAPA loans had its origins
in the effort of the Government, an a result of Bank prompting, to reduce its
interest rate subsidies to various sectors, including the WSS sector, with a
view toward their phased elimination. In 1984, when Loan 2281-ME became
effective, the interest rate on FIFAPA loans (25%) was highly negative in real
terms because of the high rate of inflation. To address interest-rate
problems under the FIFAPA and other loans, in August 1984, the Bank and the
Government entered into a General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) under which
the Government undertook to set the interest rate for sub-loans under Loan
2281-ME (and other loans) at an increasing percentage of a market reference
rate. Under GIRA, between October 1984 and January 1987, the interest rate on
new FIFAPA loans would rise from 45% of the reference rate to 80% of the
reference rate. Schedule 4 below compares the interest rates on FIFAPA loans
and on commercial paper.
Schedule 4: Interest on FIFAPA Loans
Interest Type   Interest Rate (X)*    Interest Type  Interest Rate (X)*
Years: Rate CX) of Lon Commercial P22rE Years Rate (X)  of Lon    Commerciat PaDer
1976-81  9    FIFAPA I  29.1 **  1985  25    FIFAPA II    94.6
1982    9    FIFAPA I & II 56.2        37.5  FIFAPA III
1983   15   FIFAPA 11    58.2    1986  25    FIFAPA II    110.9
25   FIFAPA III                 42.5  FIFAPA III
1984   15   FIFAPA 1    49.4     1987  80X RR  FIFAPA III   128.2
25   FIFAPA 11           1988-90 100X RR FIFAPA III  52 - 29
* As of year end.    **As of December 1980 onLy.
5I See Pat H, p. 41, para. 4.



- 30 -
In 1990, after discussion and agreement with the Government, the Bank amended
GIRA to provide for 100% of the reference rate. IV An FIFAPA loans became
increasingly expensive, municipalities avoided them as sources of finance; and
such avoidance was made easy by the continuing availability of Government
grants (see para. 4.30).
4.29            Proiect Proaress.  The rate of execution was slower than what
had been expected. From 1984 to 1986, the project was delayed by the slow
production of suitable subproject feasibility studies, the earthquake which
leveled parts of Mexico City, funding shortages at FIFAPA, major personnel
changes at BANOBRAS, and organizational problems at SEDUE consequent to
abolition of the PIU and the amendment to Article 115 of the Constitution,
which required the decentralization of operations. SEDUE did not bring the
beneficiaries into the project-preparation/implementation process. During
this period, SEDUE and BANOBRAS did not coordinate effectively, and SEDUE did
not carry out meaningful supervision of the beneficiaries (Part II, para. 15).
In these circumstances, the Bank did not extend the closing date of Loan 1913-
ME as requested by SEDUE and BANOBRAS with the result that works not completed
with financing from Loan 1913-ME were transferred to Loan 2281-ME.
4.30            Drawing the correct lesson from the closing of Loan 1913-ME
and cancellation of its undisbursed balance, Mexican officials improved the
pace of implementation of FIFAPA III in 1987; and in 1988, an a result of
renewed effectiveness on the part of SEDUE, they improved it even more. By
this time, Bank personnel had concluded that the cause of slow implementation
went beyond organizational problems of SEDUE and BANOBRAS: due to the
availability of grant financing, municipalities were increasingly avoiding
expensive FIFAPA loans. A draft sector study made a number of critical
points about the unfortunate link between free Federal financing (grants), the
absence of least-cost analysis in sector planning, and low tariffs:
"The absence of least-cost analysis in sector investments and
... the absence of cost recovery..., persist because resources
allocated to the sector are provided free to the municipalities...
and little economic or financial analysis is required to justify
these investments... Municipal authorities.. .elicit . political
influence-.. to have access to the most concessional window... It has
been argued.. that ... the most important (reason] why FIFAPA funds
are not in high demand is becauso of the 'high' costs of these
funds.. This is true only because substantially larger funds are
available from federal sources at no cost... Grant financing has
also allowed sector agencies to maintain low tariffs that do not
even cover operating costs, let alone depreciation of fixed assets
or debt service." LF
The study found that between 1981 and 1986 85% of the Federal resources
allocated to sector were provided as grants. Obviously, the expectation of
introducing the concept of cost recovery on a large scale through FIFAPA
(para. 3.27) had been contradicted by the political pressure of states and
t 41M., Lcttcr to Government, datd November 16, 1990.
SS/ dem., Mcxico: Urban Watcr SuDDIv and Sewermen Sector Study - Instutional nd Funancial Constmints, Report No.
7109-ME, dated June 30, 1988, pp. 11-12.



- 31 -
municipalities on the Government. In circumstances of high inflation and
negative real interest rates, FIFAPA was being decapitalized.
4.31           The dissolution of CEAPAS precluded implementation of the
health education program. In spite of the recurrsnt Bank requests to encourage
the Ministry of Health to use the funds designated for this program, Mexican
authorities never agreed on a mechanism to transfer loan funds. In retrospect,
Bank efforts seem to have been lax in recognizing and in providing for politi-
cal circumstances that made it difficult to involve still another agency in
the area where jurisdictional problems were a constant source of difficulties.
4.32           The Bank closed the loan on December 31, 1990, six months
later than originally expected, and canceled the undisbursed balance of US$5.0
million. The last disbursement was on March 13, 1991. Part III, Tables 4 and
5.3 compare actual and forecast schedules for the timing of disbursements and
allocation of loan proceeds.
5.             Financial Performance
5.01           As explained in paragraph 6.09, this PCR does not compare
actual and forecast financial results of the beneficiaries. Although the SARM
for FIFAPA II and III provided partial financial forecasts for the
beneficiaries, the supervision reports made no attempt to compare actual and
forecast results for the beneficiaries, either individually or collectively,
probably because it wam never expected that the internal cash generation of
the beneficiaries would constitute a significant part of project financing and
becauue the turnover of beneficiaries rendered meaningless such comparison
(paras. 4.09, 4.14 and 4.16). Financial supervision consisted of monitoring
compliance by the beneficiaries with the financial covenants of their
respective sub-loan agreements. In any event, the Bank had no direct power to
discipline a beneficiary for non-compliance with a sub-loan financial
covenant, although BANOBRAS, as borrower, could be considered to be in default
to the extent that it did not enforce the covenants.
5.02           Prior to 1982, the compliance by beneficiaries with the
financial covenants of the sub-loans was reasonably good, but in subsequent
years, there was a general lack of compliance due, above all, to the
unwillingness of BANOBRAS to take measures against those sub-borrowers that
did not comply with the sub-loan agreements, followed by the lack of
coordination between BANOBRAS and the executing agency. Further aggravating
the problem, the required tariff increases to comply with the financial
covenant appeared disproportionately high in Mexican pesos due to inflation.
In the then current socio-political environment, the State Congresses were
reluctant to approve the required tariff increases. In the difficult economic
circumstances of Mexico, especially in the years after earthquake which
devastated Mexico City (1985) when the Government was trying to contain
inflation by negotiating global priea-control agreements with labor and
industry, the Bank took an understanding view toward low water tariffs.
5.03           To resolve this problem, in 1990 BANOBRAS added a new
condition to the agreements negotiated for the extension of sub-loans that
automatically required the beneficiaries to increase the tariffs to the
required level without authorization by the State Congress. Since then, 13
states have adopted a law which allows a much higher level of autonomy to the
beneficiaries.



- 32 -
5.04           Repayments to FIFAPA were satisfactory but only because the
state governments covered the defaults of the sub-borrowers. This pattern of
repayment had a detrimental effect on the cost recovery policies of FIFAPA.
State guarantee. effectively replaced Federal grant money, undermining the
project's fundamental aims of promoting municipal self-sufficiency through
tariffs based on cost-recovery.
6.   Proiect Results
6.01           ImDact of Proiects:  Project results were mixed.  The projects
were reasonably successful in expanding WSS services (Part III, Tables 4.0 to
4.3), but less so in shaping sector policies and organizational arrangements.
Achievements through technical assistance and studies were also modest (paras.
6.05 and 6.06; Part III, Table 4.4). As of the closing of Loan 2281-ME,
institutional achievements ranged from mixed to disappointing (paras. 6.07
and 6.08).
6.02           Recognizing that the immediate results of these projects were
mixed is not all that can be said. One should take the longer view -- namely
that these projects constituted only one part of a larger effort of assisting
the Government in carrying out a major policy overhaul at the macro and
sectoral levels. In the context of the macroeconomic dialogue between the
Bank and Mexico, these projects aimed at the right sector and project goals:
creating an appropriate institutional context at the Federal level with strong
technical, planning (least-cost), and supervision capacities; establishing a
sector financing mechanism (FIFAPA) based on the concepts of cost recovery and
improved financial discipline; reducing Federal subsidies; assisting in the
decentralization of the sector through the development of strong local
operators; and expanding WSS services. Notwithstanding some disappointments,
the dialogue continues between the Bank and the Government on institutional
matters; and in connection with Loan 3227-ME, there has been success in
resolving the issues posed by grant financing and settling jurisdictional
conflicts. Sectoral responsibilities have now been vested in CNA, and the
Bank is assisting CNA to strengthen its technical and planning capacities.
These achievements draw on the dialogue and experience under the FIFAPA
projects; and hence appropriate credit should be given.
6.03           Physical Results:  The actual and forecast physical targets
and results of the project are compared in Part III, Tables 6 to 6.3. Many of
the targets for water and sewerage connections were surpassed. They totalled
226,600 and 130,300, respectively, and served an incremental population of
1,870,300. Despite these achievements, rapid population growth, exceeding
appraisal estimates, did not permit achievement of the service coverage
targets. The projects expanded badly needed services and improved health and
environmental conditions which would have been poorer in their absence.
Regrettably, benefits of these infrastructure investments could have been
considerably enhanced, had the Ministry of Health been able to use loan funds
for the Health Education Program in Sinaloa State.
6.04           In addition to these specific objectives, the projects
improved environmental quality in the participating cities. They have also
contributed to the reduction of infant mortality, principally due to diarrhea,
by addressing its main cause: deficiencies in water supply and sanitation
services for low-income groups.



- 33 -
6.05           Technical Assistance and Studies:  In connection with FIFAPA
I, SAHOP completed the installation of a technical assistance program to train
sector staff in finances, administration, and operations, and carried out a
national inventory/survey of WSS systems for municipalities with a population
over 2,500 and studies for water pollution control and metering, but used none
of the proceeds of Loan 1186-ME allocated for the training program
(US$200,000). The inventory of municipal systems permitted a better planning
of investments; the water pollution control study defined priority areas for
investment in pollution control equipment; the metering study, which was only
partially completed, helped develop a program for efficient water use (Part
III, Table 6.4).
6.06           In connection with FIFAPA II and FIFAPA III, technical
assistance was provided certain beneficiaries, consisting of various studies
to improve their accounting and financial information systeme, commercial
departments, office procedures, etc. The impact of these studies was modest.
6.07           Institutional Results:  As a first step leading toward major
sector-wide changes with respect to organization and financing, FIFAPA I aimed
at: (i) changing the pattern of financing new works by: (a) substituting loan.
for grants; and replacing "social tariffs" with "realistic tariffs" based on
the principle of cost recovery; and (b) upgrading the project preparation
capacity of SRH by substituting least-cost principles for relatively loose
engineering criteria (para. 3.04). The objectives of FIFAPA II built on and
expanded the objectives of FIFAPA II. Besides supporting the objectives of
the PNDU and improving the environmental/health conditions of medium-size
cities, FIFAPA II aimed at supporting the "decentralization policy" for s*ctor
organization -- transferring Federal sector responsibilities to the states and
municipalities and transforming Federal and other local operators into AWSe,
institutionally strong, operationally efficient, and financially viable.
There were great hopes for the large scale substitution of FIFAPA loans for
Federal grants, if the Government reduced the availability of grant financing
(parau. 3.23, 3.32, and 3.39). The objectives of FIFAPA III closely
paralleled those of FIFAPA II, with emphasis on reinforcing the SWC of Sinaloa
plue some technical assistance to BANOBRAS and SEDUE (para. 3.40). The
emphasis on reinforcing an SWC became moot due to a change in the law making
municipalities, not states, primarily responsible for providing WSS services.
6.08      Regarding financial, economic, sectoral and institutional
objectives, achievements ranged from mixed to disappointing:
(a)  The objective of substituting loan financing for grant financing
did not materialize except for the subprojects financed by FIFAPA.
Between 1981 and 1986, 85% of Federal resources allocated to the
sector were provided as grants (para. 4.30);
(b)  The objective of establishing a suitable financial mechanism to
channel and recover funds was only partially achieved. A revolving
fund, FIFAPA, was created in BANOBRAS. However, because relending
rates were too low compared to inflation, the fund became
decapitalized (para. 4.30). Competition with grant funds, lack of
counterpart funding, and cumbersome procedures for the approval of
subloans contributed to slow disbursements.  At the center of the
competition of grant funds was the continuing political strength of



- 34 -
municipalities which wished to avoid high-cost FIFAPA loans as
compared with "free" grant monies.
(c) As far the beneficiaries are concerned, results with respect to the
allied concepts of "decentralization" and "realistic tariff." have
been disappointing. After 1982, the objective of establishing
"realistic tariffs" was not achieved, as indicated by the poor
financial performance of the beneficiaries (para. 5.02). However,
developments under Loan 3271-ME have been positive and there is
hope for the future. While the Government fundamentally changed
the direction of sector organization policy toward the ownership
and operation of local operators, the objective of establishing
technically strong beneficiary local operators was only partially
achieved, as indicated by the continuing high level of losses (Part
III, Tables 6.1-6.3). Various studies were carried out to improve
the operations of local operators but their impact was limited
(Part III, Table 6.4).
(d) The objective of creating an appropriate organizational context at
the Federal level, i.e., strengthening the executing agency (SRH,
SAHOP, SEDUE) and reinforcing its project-preparation capacity
based on least-cost principles, was only partially achieved. Least-
cost principles were applied to water and sewerage facilities for
selected cities; however, much remains to be done to extend least-
cost principles throughout the sector. The objective of improving
SRH/SAHOP/SEDUE was not accomplished. Frequent reorganizations of
the executing agency (paras. 2.11 and 2.13) undermined the Bank's
substantial efforts to enhance their project-preparation capacity
and to establish guidelines, norms, and procedures to monitor WSS
operations at the local level. The executing agency's performance
and commitment to FIFAPA and the continuity of sector policies
varied through the years. Commitment suffered as ten general
directors were appointed during the twelve years of project
execution. The technical assistance to the local operators was
weak and received only little attention. As a result, local
operators often rejected the advice of the executing agency. It is
worth noting that the executing agency did not systematically
consult with local operators concerning design solutions; and that
the Bank did not recognize non-participation of the local operators
as constituting a problem (paras. 3.24 and 3.36).
(e) The other half of creating an appropriate organizational context at
the Federal level was improving the operations of BANOBRAS. Because
of the availability of grant financing, the beneficiaries were not
obliged to seek financial advice; hence BANOBRAS was not able to
assume the role of financial adviser to the sub-borrowers as
envisaged and was reluctant to enforce covenants. Cooperation with
the executing agency was poor; and Bank staff did not recognize
this as a problem during appraisal of FIFAPA II and III (paras.
3.24 and 3.36).
(f) The objective of establishing adequate norms and procedures to
ensure the efficiency of investments was met for all the works
financed under FIFAPA (paras. 3.08, 3.19, 3.25 and 3.37). However,
some projects rejected for financing by the Bank were financed by



- 35 -
other sources and FIFAPA selection criteria were not adopted as a
general rule for the sector.
6.09           Internal Rate of Return.  Given the mainly institutional focus
of the three loans and the difficulties of obtaining meaningful investment and
operating data, no attempt has been made to calculate a representative rate of
return.
7.   Sustainabilitv
7.01           The lingering institutional and managerial deficiencies which
beaet the projects, in spite of the successes in increasing water and sewerage
services, raise questions about project sustainability; but, on the other
hand, these projects laid the basis for the on-going Water Supply and Sanita-
tion Sector Project (para. 2.05). This project, which aims at overcoming
prior shortcomings by building upon lessons discussed in this report, has
already led to resolution of the financing issues raised in paragraphs 6.08(a)
and 6.08(b) and to a promising start toward the solution of the institutional
issues raised in paragraph 6.06(d). Other issues are also being addressed.
From this perspective, the achievements from Bank involvement do seem more
sustainable.
7.02           During the years of their implementation (1976-1990), the
projects represented only about an 8% share of sector investment. Yet, it
increased awareness on the part of all sector personnel of the need for
institutional improvements, cost-recovery pricing policies, least-cost
solutions, and operational maintenance. If Federal spending is reduced as
part of a fiscal stabilization effort, grant financing for investment in the
sector will not be available in significant amounts.  Prospects are for
continued austerity. Hence, the FIFAPA reforms which facilitate municipal
self-reliance are indispensable to a continuing program of inventment in
keeping with forecasts for urban population growth, provided, of course, that
the states and municipalities do not resist reduction of Federal grant
financing.
8.   Performance
8.01           Bank   Bank performance was mixed.  At appraisal, the Bank
addressed some important issues with the right measures, but paid inadequate
attention to the issue of relationships between the executing agency, the
borrower, and the beneficiaries. During implementation, it appears that the
Bank did not allow sufficient time for adequate supervision of the
beneficiaries (Part III, Table 7). To resolve the institutional problems
delaying the projects during the middle 1980s -- dissolution of PIU/SEDUE,
poor interagency cooperation, ineffective supervision of beneficiaries (para.
4.20) -- the Bank combined the right mix of incentive and censure by refusing
to extend the closing date for Loan 1913-ME. The fact that the projects did
not achieve all of their institutional objectives, especially substituting
loans for grants and establishing the principle of cost recovery, was largely
a reflection of the difficult financial circumstances of the 1980s and the
political strength of municipalities in Mexico. The Bank, on the other hand,
could have facilitated a better understanding of sector issues, promoting
'their fuller discussion and attaching higher priority to their resolution. In
1983, when Mexico needed a visible sign of support, the Bank provided that
sign by, inter Al", approving Loan 2281-ME.  In 1986, when the Government



- 36 -
needed to improve the operations of BANOBRAS and SEDUE, the Bank provided the
right impetus to such improvement by closing Loan 1913-ME and canceling the
undisbursed balance. If reinforcing the credibility of the Bank is an
implicit objective of Bank lending, these loans helped to achieve that
objective.
8.02           Project design, scope and scale were appropriate, albeit too
ambitious in some regards, and failing to recognize other problems. The
designs of all three projects failed to provide for the participation of the
beneficiaries in the decision-making process, which was centralized in Mexico
City (paras. 3.19 and 3.31). They also failed to define in sufficient detail
the roles and responsibilities of the implementing agency and of BANOBRAS,
even though experience with SRH during project preparation had already
indicated serious deficiencies (paras. 3.07 and 3.10). In the first project,
the design also failed to take into account the unfamiliarity of BANOBRAS, as
a first time borrower, with Bank policies and procedures on procurement and
disbursement. During appraisal, especially with respect to FIFAPA II and III,
the Bank overestimated the prospects for FIFAPA as a vehicle for introducing
the concept of cost recovery on a large scale (para. 3.20 and 3.27), the
Government's resolve to reduce the extent of grant financing and the
willingness and ability of BANOBRAS to enforce compliance by the beneficiaries
with their respective sub-loan financial covenants (para. 5.02).
8.03           Supervision of the projects involved Bank missions at a rate
of at least one every six months, to assist SRH/SAHOP/SEDUE, including
preparing the criteria for subproject selection and the necessary feasibility
studies (Part III, Table 7). Although the time spent on supervision appeared
commensurate with the tasks at hand, in retrospect it now seems insufficient,
as it did not allow enough time to visit the beneficiaries and be in closer
contact with the implementation issues which they faced. The supervision
reports are notable in the absence of commentary on the performances of the
respective beneficiaries.
8.04           Institutional development at the local level was also given
insufficient attention, with the exception of some technical support which
took place at the time of project completion. This occurred despite a
situation where local beneficiaries lacked operational and managerial
experience, had little interest in taking on large debts to finance works
previously provided on a fully subsidized basis by the Federal government, had
little say in defining their respective needs and solutions (reflecting mainly
their lack of perception of ownership of the project), and had minimal
participation in the engineering solution chosen by SRH. This deficiency and
confusion of responsibilities within the implementing agency and BANOBRAS
contributed to delays in implementation.
8.05           The timing of loan approvals may have contributed to some
difficulties.  The first and third loans were declared effective shortly
before new Administrations took office.  While the Bank explicitly noted the
risks involved with proceeding with these operations at the time of change, it
decided that it would be more beneficial for sector development to maintain a
presence and promote policy changes. The Bank felt that instead of
interrupting or postponing lending operations to accommodate changes and
delays, these issues could be adequately tackled in follow-up operations. In
retrospect, it would seem that meeting lending targets may have also
contributed to theme decisions.



-37-
8.06            In addition, the projects also confronted unforeseeable
difficulties unrelated to those management issues noted above. Thus, for
example, it was impossible to anticipate the disruptive effects on the entire
country, especially to the infrastructure sectors, of the 1985 earthquake.
The Bank responded quickly to the earthquake by defining two new disbursement
categories to support urgent rehabilitation works, totalling US$21 million.
8.07            Bank performance during implementation demonstrated
flexibility in approach and in adjusting to deteriorating economic conditions
and to numerous organizational changes within institutions. In particular,
the Bank response to the economic crisis in 1982, the 1985 earthquake and the
shortage of counterpart funds was timely and appropriate as it agreed to raise
disbursements (from 45% to 70%) to maintain the pace of project execution.  It
also made sensible arrangements for shifting the financing of items between
FIFAPA I and II to accelerate disbursements and close the first loan promptly.
Indeed, the Bank showed considerable flexibility throughout, since the
projects funded a succession of several subprojects, except when disbursements
were stopped because of non-compliance with Bank procurement procedures.
8.08            Many of the problems which hindered implementation were
identified at appraisal as risks but were deemed acceptable in light of the
impetus for change in the sector and the expected benefits ensuing from these
changes. They were to be minimized by establishment of a strengthened PIU
prior to loan approval and intensive Bank supervision. The ambitious nature
of the first loan, deeply rooted patterns of behavior regarding investment
activities and changing levels of commitment to the project by three different
Administrations were the main factors which made the delays in implementation
mostly unavoidable.
8.09            Interest rates were maintained too low, ranging from 9-25%
when inflation rose to more than 100%, leading to large subsidies which pre-
cluded genuine efforts for reforms to implement least-cost solutions in the
sector. However, given the very difficult macroeconomic environment of the
1980s, it is hard to fault Mexico for its approach to this sensitive domestic
issue or the Bank for failing to take a stronger stance on this issue before
reaching agreement on interest rate increases for FIFAPA in the context of
GIRA (para. 4.28). As of project completion (1990), these hidden subsidies
have been eliminated. Since 1988, all subloans have been signed using an
interest rate accounting for 100% of the average cost of funds in the market.
8.10            A four year disbursement profile was optimistic, given the
sharp shift in sector policies to be supported by the project and the intro-
duction of BANOBRAS as a new Bank borrower. In light of this experience, the
preparation of FIFAPA III allotted seven years for disbursement.
8.11            In spite of repeated Bank prompting, neither BANOBRAS nor the
executing agency opted to use resources for consultants or staff training to
strengthen weak areas in their respective organizations. This had a material
and adverse effect on institutional development and improvement. The Bank
should have been more insistent on the use of resources for consultants and
training (para. 10.01).



- 38 -
Performances of the Executina Aa-ncv and the Borrower
8.12           As between the executing agency and the borrower, the
executing agency had the more important role in carrying out the projects.
SRH/SAHOP/SEDUE played its role in disappointing fashion while the strong
points of the performance of BANOBRAS, on balance, outweighed its weak points.
As noted previously, the inexperience of PIU/SRD under FIFAPA I hampered
initial project preparation and implementation.  Partly due to the
shortcomings of project design, interagency coordination was also deficient,
exacerbated by institutional rivalries (para. 4.06). During the years 1984-
86, after the dissolution of the PIU/8ZDU, the performance of the SDUV was
marginalt in addition to poor interagency cooperation, meaningful supervision
of the beneficiaries did not occur (para. 4.23). Also during this period,
BANOBRAS did not enforce the financial covenants of the sub-loan agreements
(para. 5.02) or generally assume the role of financial adviser to the local
operators. Further, it had a stronger tendency to identify problems than to
take active steps to remedy them. Offsetting these weak points was its
operation of FIFAPA, which was efficient. In assessing the performance of
BANOBRAS and the executing agency, the most important fact to consider is that
85% of sector financing was provided by grants. In other words, the
Government, under the pressure of economic events and municipal political
resistance to FIFAPA, abandoned the goal of sector reform in favor of other
strategic goals.   The compliance of BANOBRAS and SRH/8AHOP/ SEDUN with
selected covenants is summarized in Table 8, Part III and in Part II from the
Borrower's perspective.
9.   Proiect Relationships
9.01           The Bank's relationship with the borrower, implem nting agency
and Federal and local government institutions has been very good. By the
closing of Loan 2281-ME (1990), Federal, state and municipal agencies were
marginally stronger than they had been. Indeed, Bank intervention provided a
continuity that would otherwise have been absent given the weakness of the
federal agencies, and the recurrent changes in the implementing agency.
10. Consultina Services
10.01.         By and large, the use of consultants for toechnical assistance
to strengthen Federal institutions and the beneficiaries has been a point of
contention throughout the projects between the Bank and the Mexican officials.
Only in FIFAPA III were loan funds used for this activity. A stronger Bank
stance on this issue, given the evident need for such assistance, would
probably have been warranted.
11. Proiect Documentation and Data
11.01          The legal documents were adequato for achieving the projects'
objectives, but should have beon more flexible from the outset in permitting
the inclusion of additional subproject cities, without requiring an amendment,
as did indeed happen shortly after the effectiveness of loan 1186-ME. The
iARs were appropriatoly comprehensive with the exception of interagency
coordination arrangments and the arrangements for participation of the
beneficiaries from an early stage. Data availability for preparation of the



- 39 -
PCR was inadequate au a suitable monitoring program was never in place in
spite of consistent Bank recommendations in this regard.
12. Lessons Learned
12.01          The following lessons emerge from the implementation of the
project:
(a) Where the main sector issues arise from an inadequate policy
framework and deficient organizational/institutional arrange-
ments (parar. 4.04 to 4.10), Bank staff should seek to develop an
understanding of the issues and a vision of how they ought to be
addressed; and enure that local officials share this understanding
and vision. Lack of this shared understanding and vision appears to
have been the key missing element common to all three projects
(para. 4.30) and explains the subsequent shortfalls with respect to
the achievement of project objectives, physical and institutional.
(b) Where the lead role for implementation can shift between the
executing agency and the borrower, the Bank must give more careful
consideration to the definition of specific institutional
arrangements (paras. 3.21 & 3.36). Preferably one agency should
take the leadership in the overall coordination of the involved
institutions and in the monitoring and enforcement of sub-loan
agreements. While some conflict is inevitable when two Federal
institutions and various local agencies share responsibility for
project execution, clearer delineation of roles and obligations at
appraisal would likely have mitigated some of the problems
experienced by the projects, such an the slow processing of
documents, lack of monitoring information, and delays in subproject
construction. The same judgement applies to the PIU. If the top
management of SRH/SAHOP had moved to support the authority of the
PIU and to upgrade its leadership and staff before 1978, the
challenges to the PIU and the feuding within SRH/SAHOP would not
have been such an obstacle to project progress;
(c) Concentration of decision-making at the Federal level was
responsible for the weak sense of ownership of the part of the
beneficiaries. The design of the project should include
recognition of the importance of the beneficiaries' participation
in defining and addressing their own needs, as well as the
adherence to the principle that the beneficiary itself is the
primary decision-maker, the primary organizer and the primary
investor in the project. As experience with these projects
demonstrates, the generation of local support and understanding of
the project objectives are prerequisites for smooth and effective
implementation. The Bank should have focused on the issue with the
SRH/SAHOP/SEDUS, identifying the time dimension, personnel
requirements and amounta of financial resources required to
integrate the sub-borrower in the design, construction and
implementation of subprojects (parar. 3.21 and 3.36). In addition,
promoting and implementing legal changes, as in the case of
organizational changes or tariff increases, require closer
supervision by the Bank. More of the Bank's supervision effort
should have been focused at the local level; and



- 40 -
(d) A firm Bank stance can result in long-term gains. An example of
this point was the threat to suspend disbursements under Loans
1913-ME and 2281-ME until the PIU's new staff stood in compliance
with Bank Procurement Guidelines and Procedures (para. 4.22).
Another lesson is the value of country-wide bidding documents as
were agreed by Bank and Mexican official in about 1990. These have
contributed to a much smoother procurement process.
(e) A final lesson is the value of taking the long view -- namely that
these projects constituted only one part of a much larger effort to
assist the Government in a major policy overhaul at both the macro
and sector levels. Notwithstanding some disappointments, the
dialogue with the Government continues and in connection with Loan
3227-MZ, there has been some success in resolving issues posed by
grant financing and settling jurisdictional conflicts. These
achievements draw on the dialogue and experience under the FIFAPA
projects and hence appropriate recognition should be given (para.
6.02).



- 41 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PART II.  BORROWER'S REVIEW OF THE PROJECT &
Set forth below is a translation of the comments of BANOBRAS on a
draft of Parts I and III of the PCR. Revised to achieve consistency of
references with the current version of the PCR, these comments have been
incorporated into or noted in the PCR where appropriate. Also set forth below
is a translation of a summary of the final project report prepared by SEDUE
and BANOBRAS.
Section I. BANOBRAS Comments on Draft PCR (dated June 22. 19921
1.        In general terms, the PCR uses the financial information appearing
in the final project report prepared by BANOBRAS (dated May 1990). However,
the data in Table 4, Part III of the PCR, which compares actual and forecast
disbursements for all three loans, differs from the corresponding data
prepared by BANOBRAS (see attachment). The PCR refers to this data in
paragraphs 4.15, 4.23, and 4.32.
2.        The interest-rate table on page 29 of the PCR shows an interest
rate of 15% for FIFAPA loans in 1982; the actual rate was 9%.
3.        The second to last paragraph of the "Preface" (p. i) indicates that
the Bank wrote Parts I and III of the PCR and that BANOBRAS and SEDUE wrote
Part II. But it is worth mentioning the PCR reflects information provided by
all three entities.
4.        The PCR does not clearly indicate that FIFAPA resources were
diverted to assist the national reconstruction program for Mexico City
following the earthquake of 1985.1W
5.        In paragraph 10 of the "Evaluation Summary" (p. v), we think that
the last part ought to say: "that due to the deficient cooperation and
comnmunication between SEDUE and BANOBRAS, the "Action Plan" arranged by the
Bank was not sufficient to correct the difficulties."
6.        In paragraph 13 of the "Evaluation Summary" (p. vi), in the first
objective mentioned, it would be useful to indicate that FIFAPA was the first
program which introduced at the national level the concept of cost-recovery
financing for the development of the sector.
S6/ Summarized and translated from 'Fondo e Inversiones Financier,, para Agua Potable y AlcantariUlado: Informe de
Terminaci6n de Programa", SEDUE and BANOBRAS; May, 1991, 50 pp.
S7/ See Part 1, p. 29, pam. 4.26,



- 42 -
Attachment
Comparlson of Annual Disbursements from Loans 1186-HE, 1913-ME and 2281-ME
as per Accountina Data and Expenditures in Pesos Restated in US Dollars
(in millions of US$)
=            G        __                          _     _      __n 91-"
Loan 1186-ME                     Loan 1913-ME                       Loan 2281-ME           jTotaL Loans
Year      A*        B*       01ff.         A*          B*        Offf.        A*         5'        Diff.                 Total
A            B      Diff.
1978      4.09    3.38        0.71                 _                                                            4.09      3.38       0.71
1979      5.65    3.90        1.75                 _                                                            5.65      3.90       1.75
1980      8.38    8.45       (0.07)                          _           r         _                            8.38      8.45      (0.07)
1981      9.38    7.95        1.43        3.02        4.24       (1.22)  _                                     12.40     12.19       0.21
1982      1.61    1.90       (0.29)      14.80       12.69        2.11    r                                    16.41     14.59       1.82
1983      2.32    2.78       (0.46)       4.82        3.99        0.83                                          7.14      6.77       0.37
1984      8.36    7.53        0.83       17.86       14.29        3.57       9.41         1.13      8.28       35.63     22.95      12.68
1985                                     32.64       24.57        8.07      13.57        11.64      1.93       4 .21    36.21       10.00
1986                                      7.43        6.85        0.58      11.86        11.11      0.75       19.29    17.96        1.33
1987                                     (4.84)       4.28       (9.12)      9.05        12.04    (2.99)        4.21      16.32    (12.11)
1988                                                                        11.21         9.82      1.39       11.21      9.82       1.39
1989                                                                        11.54        11.22      0.32       11.54      11.22      0.32
1990                =                                                       16.02        20.70    (4.68)       16.02    20.70       (4.68)
1991                                                                         6.68         2.89      3.79        6.68       2.89      3.79
TOTAL    39.79   35.89          3.90       75.73       70.91        4.82     89.34       80.55       8.79      204.86    187.35      17.51
Special CanceLlstion                   (9.00)
Exchange Rate Difference               (0.09)
Sibtotat              80.25        80.55      -0.3      195.77   187.35        8.42
Earthquate RealLocation                15.05       15.05
TOTAL                 95.30        96.60      -0.3      210.82   202.4         8.42
Cancellation at Loan CLosing           (5.00)                                                        1
Original Loan Amount                   100.3
Total Cancellation                     14.09
| _ _._ _ -                                                              -_                           .   -  __
'A a Loan Accounting Data.
*S a Expenditures In Pesos Restated in US Dollars.



- 43 -
Section II. Summarv of Final Proiect Report Prepared by BANOBRAS and SEDUE
A. Background
2.        In the mid-1970's, when the first medium-size cities project was
designed, the organization of the Mexican federal government presented the
following characteristics:
(a) It did not have a unified legal framework nor national planning
strategy for urban development;
(b) In most cases, it assumed direct fiscal responsibility for
construction and installation of water and sewerage systems
throughout the country. There did not exist, however, an
autonomous organization to operate these systems, nor did the
government contemplate the possibility of lending (rather than
grants) to finance projectsl
(c) Public institutions in the sector possessed a very limited capacity
to generate or evaluate new projects using least-cost criteria;
(d) The revenues of the operating companies did not cover costs of
operation, precluding resources for rehabilitation or expansion of
infrastructurel
(e) The secretariats responsible for finance and national planning
tried to promote change from the traditional idea of subsidies for
new works to an approach based on cost-recovery for new investments
in those medium-size cities capable of paying. Likewise, they
tried to change the policy of subsidizing the cost of services, to
one where tariffs and revenues would cover the cost of operation
and build up reserves for future investments;
3.        By 1979, the situation described above had changed as noted below:
(a) Instead of regarding water intake, transmission, treatment and
distribution as different functions, FIFAPA now viewed the full
range of functions as part of an integrated system of
infrastructure, including institutional development, coordinated
and decentralized in various regions and cities. This change of
view led to a new stage of accelerated development calling for new
projects and investments.
(b) In spite of the overall plans to decentralize services and their
administration from Mexico City to the States, the Federal
Government continued to dispense grant money for water and
sewerage, without rational criteria to differentiate between grant
and loan funds.
(c) SRH was dismantled and replaced by SANOP in order to centralize
the planning, supervision and construction, and to decentralize
operation and billing/collection to the operating companies.



- 44 -
4.        The international economic crisis of 1982, also affected FIFAPA in
that the Federal Government war unable to provide the counterpart funds it had
planned.
B. Analysis of the Proiect
5.        FIFAPA I, II and III, actually a continuation of a mingle project
in three phases, had the common objective of improving the provision of water
supply and sanitation services in medium-size cities throughout Mexico. Each
stage, however, contained specific objectives, reflecting the different phase.
of project development and implementation over the long-term.
6.        FIFAPA I aimed at devising a mechanism to finance public
investments at the municipal level, based on cost-recovery rather than Federal
grants. It also aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity to evaluate
projects, to use its resources more efficiently, and promote a policy of
realistic tariffs.
7.        FIFAPA II, by comparison, aimed to support the National Plan for
Urban Development; assist SAHOP to decentralize water and sewerage services,
promoting viable finance and operations to autonomous companies; strengthen
the administrative capacity of existing management; improve environmental and
health conditions in medium-size cities; extend water and sewerage services to
low-income areas; facilitate a program of chlorination for all urban
populations by 1983; prioritized and initiate waste water treatment in those
cities with high levels of contamination.
8.        FIFAPA III contained a pilot program in Sinaloa State aimed at
developing a State water company that could be replicated in other states. It
also contained a institutional development component to strengthen SEDUE and
BANOBRAS. Its objectives changed markedly from those designated in the Staff
Appraisal Report. These occurred for several reasons, but three were crucial:
(a) First, lack of reliable information on specific cities made it
difficult to conduct feasibility studies, which, in turn, impaired
the preparation of individual subloan agreements with them.
(b) Second, finance to the Sinaloa State Commission (CRAPAS) to on-lend
to the particular cities was seriously impaired by the economic
crisis, coupled with changes in administrative structure of
SRH/SAHOP.
(c) Third, the interest rate changed from 25% to 60% (which represented
100% of the CPP), and was viewed as too high by the participating
cities. To add to these three impediments, the individual
operating companies were weak in administration, and others had not
received 100% of the works contracted under FIFAPA II.
9.        In general, the repeated staff changes in the implementing
agencies, already administratively weak, made it extremely difficult to
incorporate the lessons learned from FIFAPA I and II, and thus, to overcome
the impediments noted above. Moreover, the high inflation rate of the 80's
was unforseen at the time that each of the FIFAPA stages was designed.
Indeed, some beneficiaries, because of the high interest rate, partially



- 45 -
canceled their sub-loans, or transferred them to pay interest or amortize
principal.
10.       In keeping with the Bank's objectives, FIFAPA included resources to
strengthen the implementing agencies. But in reality, neither technical nor
financial resources were available to meet this objective. The inherent risk
of poor management and technical assistance was counterbalanced by frequent
supervision missions from the Bank. In fact, this public sector crisis lasted
until 1986 until the Direcci6n General de Infra-structura Urbana within SEDUR
was restructured and was able to combat the problem systematically.
11.       In many cases, institutional development programs were limited only
to purchase operation and maintenance equipment. In a few cases, however
(e.g. Culiacan, Los Mochis e Irapuato), investment in such equipment plus
consultant services to strengthen the company resulted in substantial
improvement of operation and administration.
12.       The US$2.4 million available for strengthening federal institutions
was reallocated for seminars directed to the beneficiaries.
13.       In the absence of adequate data from monitoring systems, the cities
tended systematically to underestimate true costs over time, resulting in
tariff increases that were perceived by the public to be excessive when they
were eventually applied. In those cases where monitoring data existed, it was
easier to implement the increases when supported by actual costs.
c. Execution. Operation. and Proiect Costs
14.       The principal impediment to efficient operation of the entire
FIFAPA program was tied to the inability of financing viable projects, which,
in turn, depended on prefeasibility studies to determine financial viability
and potential for full cost-recovery. These studies, in turn, depended on
reliable data which were unavailable for a variety of factors already
mentioned. All aspects of the project were influenced by the high inflation
rates of the mid-1980'".
15.       The lack of coordination among the agencies, itself, was due to
misunderstandings stemming from the difference between grant and loan
financing. The participation of the beneficiaries during the execution of
works financed with resources of the first two stages of the FIFAPA program
was practically nil, because the planning, execution and supervision of the
works was the responsibility of the federal agency, i.e. SRH, SAHOP, and
SEDUE. Once the works were constructed, the federal agency handed over
responsibility for operation, administration, as well as management of the
debts acquired in the process.
16.       Nonetheless, the program disbursed US$216 million and served 32
cities distributed in 20 states. In most cases, they met their prograummed
targets, and in some cases surpassed them. In nine citioe, new water and
sewerage systems were installed, two of which were completely financed by
states resources.
17.       In 1985, the relation between operational income and operational
costs was 1.29, whereas in 1989, it was 1.98. That is to say, in 1985, income
covered only 29% of costs; in 1989, they covered nearly 100%.



- 46 -
18.       The ratio between total income and fixed assets of the aggregate of
the beneficiaries reached 15.3% in 1991. Allowing furthermore, that operating
costs represented 50% total costs, it is reasonable to assum that the
operating companies approached a point of economic equilibrlum. This is a
promising sign that, with the assurance of FIFAPA funding, the campaign of the
Urban Infrastructure Directorate (Direcci6n de Infra-structura Urbana) was
leading to a more rational use of water and more efficient administration, and
that the operating companies in the future can operate free of subsidies to
provide their best services to their respective communities.
19.       Twenty-one cities who received support from FIFAPA were surveyed.
This group represents an overall population of 9.3 million people, with an
estimated coverage of water of 77% of the population, of which the figure
surpassed 90% in 7 cities. Only one city below 50%. For sewerage, the
average coverage reached nearly 60%, and in two cities, 80%. In 3 cities,
however, the coverage was only 50%. Average water consumption is
approximately 225 l/c/d, without including physical losses. In six cities,
the figure surpasses 300 l/c/d, but in two others it has not reached 100
l/c/d. Under the program, FIFAPA reduced the 300-350 l/c/d standards, which
were unrealistically high in order to be able to provide minimum quantities of
water to more people. The Mexican Government is now reviewing this change of
standards.
20.       In terms of finance, income generally covers expenses in the sample
cities. In two cases (Cuernavaca and Leon), income is greater than expenses.
It is important to note, that traditionally in Mexico, the revenues of water
and sewerage utilities have never covered operation and maintenance costs
before.
21.       In terms of sound financial manag ement, water losses of the order
of 35% remain a problem, with figures ranging from 5-60%. It is not clear,
however, whether these figures represent a deficiency in management or
inaccurate measurements. Overall efficiency appears to be of the order of
53%, ranging between 40-80%. Generally, tariffs cover 63% more than operating
costs. For every 1000 connections, there are 5 employ-ee on average.
22.       In commercial terms, it is possible to conclude that even when
overall efficiency is low, the financial operation of the operating companies,
reflects the low importance that has been assigned to institutional develop-
ment as noted earlier. In terms of institutional development of the federal
agencies, results in general were marginal. This occurred primarily because
the federal agencies did not feel the necessity for a strong management
capability of the sector, in spite of the efforts of SEDUN, and one of the
recurring proposals of the supervision of the World Bank staff. Nonetheless,
in those cities which were able to implem nt these principles, the results
were very positive, notably in Queretaro, Mazatlan, Culiacan, Irapuato y
Acapulco.
23.       In spite of these deficiencies in support and funding, the
financial and administrative management of the beneficiaries began to be more
efficient, a fact that is reflected in the higher incomes with more equitable
and rational tariffs, and a cash surplus which permitted some of them to
confront the necessities of operations and maintenance as well as the
expansion of services in water supply and sewerage. In this sense, FIFAPA



- 47 -
contributed to the gradual collective understanding of the necessity to pay
for water and sewerage services according to actual costs.
24.       The FIFAPA program also caused several secondary benefits outside
the project itself. Even if all the specific objectives were not met
literally, the program was instrumental in changing the mentality of
government employees at the federal, state and municipal levels, as well as in
the beneficiaries and the communities which benefitted from the financing.
This change in mentality, in turn, promoted the acceptance of the concept the
water and sewerage services necessarily should not be subsidized.
25.       Similarly, the project confronted a series of legal, regulatory and
financial problems which should be easier to resolve in the future. For
example, municipalities were reluctant to sign subloan contracts to manage
works whose final costs were higher than original estimates, due to inflation.
Based partly on a lack of communication, and partly on the concept of a fixed-
costs contract, the states felt it inappropriate to accept the higher costs
without an understanding the reasons for cost increases.
26.       The program was also instrumental in promoting the idea of
integrated water and sanitation projects to be financed together, particularly
as a means to combat pollution of surface and underground water contaminated
by domestic waste water.
27.       FIFAPA was also instrumental in identifying hidden subsidies tp be
dealt with more rationally, or identified as a direct subsidy and handled
accordingly. That is, where systems are so deteriorated that they require an
inordinate amount of repair that might be difficult to justify on strict cost-
benefit grounds, or where full cost recovery might not be possible for
economically disadvantaged populations, these works are now viewed as needing
subsidy, either through a reduced interest rate, or by the state paying the
bill. In particular, this feature was incorporated into the Sector Loan,
approved in November 1990, which provides for transparent subsidies and
specific targets to the poor.
D. Institutional Performance
28.       Institutional problems were compounded by the fact that local
institutions did not perceive the project as their own, and were therefore
reluctant to participate in planning, monitoring or accepting their full share
of costs. The latter added to delays in project execution, in particular in
devising contractual arrangements for signing subloans. Moreover, supervision
by SEDUE was not frequent or of high quality, partly because SEDUE lacked
resources.
29.       Training was not well executed at the federal, state or municipal
levels. Indeed, the training funds were not used, partly because SEDUE felt
that works were more important than training and did not request an adequate
training budget, e.g. to buy equipment. This occurred also because of the
variety of factors, particularly inflation, that drew attention to planning
and completion of works. Now, training is designed in conjunction with CNA
operating companies and ANOAPA.
30.       The excessive centralization of information and of decision making
within SEDUE and BANOBRAS generated problems.



- 48 -
31.       Personnel at all levels changed frequently during the course of the
three project stages, and is still changing roughly every three years. In
many cases this is a result of electoral changes.



- 49 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PART II1
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Sank Loans
Nuaber                    Title                                      Purpose                        Year of       Aount
ApprovaL   US$ mitlion
0909-HE    Mexuco City Water Supply Project    lxprove water quaLity and quantity and treat           11/90         90
wastewater for reuse.
1186-ME    Madius Cities Water Supply and        Sector objectives:  To establish and                 12/73         40 '
Seorege Project                       implement policies for the national water
supply and rsewrage (WSS) sector; ifprove
sector institutional structure. Project
objective: to expand service levels in eight
(8) cities through construction of
heterogeneous subprojects.
1913-ME    Second Medium-Size Cities Water       Sector objectives: to support                        11/80        125 3
Supply and Seweroge Project           decentralization of: (a) population and
economy through Ixproved WSS services to
wedium-size cities; and (b) sector
organization through transformation of local
WSS entities operated by Federal and
m.nicipal goverrnants into autonomous
financially viable copxnies. Project
objectives: to expand service levels in five
medium size cities through construction of
heterogeneous subprojects. To strengthen
mangemnt capabilities and lmprove financial
performAnce of WSS coapanies (state and
m.micipal).
2281-ME    Third Medlus-Slze Cities and           Sector objective: to support                        06/83       100.3
Sinalos State Water Project           decentralization of: (a) population and
economy through Improved WSS services to
mediu-size cities; Cb) sector organization
at state lovel by developz nt of model USS
company CSinaloa); and  c) isprove
Institutional capacity of Federal  agencie.
Project objective: to expand service levels
in four cities through construction of
heterogeneous subprojects.
3101-HE    Water  woen end developaent            Improve living standards of lou-income              05/89         20
project                               groups.
3271-HE    Water supply  nd sanitotion            Support sector Reorganization Progrom.              11/90        300
sector project
Amsot canceled: USS 11.79 million.
A ount canceled:  US# 0.21 miLlion.
Amount cancel d:  USS 49.28 million.
Amount canceled: US$ 5.00 Oillion.
Auoumt canceled:  USS 20.0 milLion.



- 50 -
Table 2: Proiect Timetable:
Date        Date       Date
Item                           Planned      Revised     Actual
TABLE 2.1: LOAN 1186-ME
Identification                                                  Jan 74
Preparation                                                     Jul 74
Appraisal Mission                       Nov 74                  Jun 75
Post-Appraisal Mission
Loan Negotiations                                            10 Nov 75
Board Approval                                               18 Dec 75
Loan Signature                                               13 Jan 76
Loan Effectiveness                   15 Apr 76               26 Apr 76
Loan Closing                         31 Dec 80   14 Jan 82
14 Jan 83
14 Jan 84  14 Jan 84
Peoject Completion                   30 Jun 80               14 Jan 84
Last Disbursement                                            23 May 84
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----_
TABLE 2.2: LOAN 1913-ME
Identification                                                 Mar 79
Preparation                                                    May 79
Appraisal Mission                                            10 Mar 80
Post-Appraisal Mission                                         Jun 80
Loan Negotiations                     Aug 80                 11 Sep 80
Board Approval                        Nov 80                 4 Oct 80
Loan Signature                                              23 Jan 81
Loan Effectiveness                                          23 Jun 81
Loan Closing                        31 Dec 84    30 Nov 86  30 Nov 86
Project Completion                  30 Jun 84               30 Nov 86
Last Disbursement                                           31 Aug 87
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----_
TABLE 2.3: LOAN 2281-ME
Identification                                                  Apr 81
Preparation                                                     Jul 81
Appraisal Mission                                               Mar 82
Post-Appraisal Mission                                          Fab 83
Loan Negotiations                                             7 Apr 83
Board Approval                                               17 May 83
Loan Signature                                               25 Sep 83
Loan Effectiveness                                           27 Feb 84
Loan Closing                         30 Jun 90    31 Dec 90 31 Dec 90
Project Completion                   31 Dec 89               31 Dec 90
Last Disbursement                                            13 Mar 91




Table 3.1: FIFIPA I: Actual Cost and Sources of Financing
(stated in thousands of current US$)
Location              Foreign Currency    Local Currency           Total Cost
CD, JUARZZ, CHIN.                          1,5S5.2                 64.9              1,620.1
CD, VICTORIA, TAMPS                        3,307.3              4,961.0              8,268.4
COZUJWL, QROO.                               998.3                167.7              1,166.0
CULIACAN, SIN                              5,202.3              7,805.1             13,007.4
MATAMOROS, TAMPS.                          1,459.7.               309.0              1,768.7
MEXICALI, B.C.                             3,856.8              5,785.3              9,642.1
)ONCLOVA-FRONTERA, COAR.                     616.1                219.0                835.1
MORELIA, KICK.                             1,523.2              2,204.9              3,808.1
NOGALES, SON.                                343.3                 78.5                421.8
QUERETARO, QRO.                            1,322.0                300.3              1,703.2
REYNOSA, TAXWS,                            5,777.3              8,375.0             14,152.3
TAMPICO-CD MADERO, TAWiS.                  5,602.2              7,317.3             12,919.4
TEPIC, NAY.                                  496.7                 64.5                561.3
TOLUCA, NZX.                                 927.5                316.5              1,244.1
TUXTLA GUTIZRRZX, CRIS.                    1,505.4              2,378.1              3,963.5
SAGATECAS-OPI, ZAC.                        1,325.7                167.4              1,493.1
TOU2L                        35,099.91            40,674.6             76,574.5
Diffors fro  amount shown in Table 4 (US$ 39.8 million) due to rate-of-exchange
differences (US$ 4.82 million); also, see Part XI, Attachment (p. 42).



- 52 -
Table 3.2: FIFAPA Ils Actual Cost and Sources of Financing
(stated in thousands of current US dollars)
Location             Foreign Currencr    Local Currener        Total Cost
CD, JUARZN, CHIN.                      12,922.4             9,191.1           22,113.6
CD, VICTORIA, TAMPS                     1,026.0               439.7.           1,465.8
COZU3EL, QROO.                          5,500.2             2,357.2            7,857.5
CULIACAN, SIN                             490.8               195.1              685.9
MATAMOROS, TAWUS.                       6,824.9             4,153.8           10,978.7
MONCLOVA-FRONTZRA, COaX.                4,407.2             2,480.3            6,887.5
NOGALES, S0N.                           2,850.3             2,745.6            5,595.9
QUERETARO, QRO.                        12,346.3             8,634.8           20,981.2
REYNOSA, TAMPS,                         3,409.2             1,461.1            4,870.3
TAMPICO MADERO, TAMPS.                  8,458.2             3,859.5           12,317.6
TEPIC, NAY.                             1,553.2               665.6            2,218.8
TOLUCA, HEX.                            8,380.3             7,613.1           15,993.3
ZAGATzEas-oPE, sac.                     2,748.7             1,178.0            3,926.7
_OTAL                      70,917.72           44,975.1          115,892.8
2    Differs from rate in Table 4 (US$ 75.7 aillion) due to rate-of-exchange differences
(US$ 3.90 million); also, see Part II, Attachment (p. 42).



- 53 -
Table 3.3t FIFAPA III: Actual Cost and Sources of Financing
(in thousands of current US dollars)
Location               Foreign Currency      Local Currency         Total Cost
ACAPULCO, GRO.                              9,403.9             12,966.3             22,460.0
CO. OBREGON, SON.                           2,064.1              4,837.3              6,902.0
CO. NEZABUALCOYOTL, HEX.                    2,376.1              2,904.1              5,280.1
CHICUAETUA CHIN.                            3,253.2              3,976.1              7,229.3
CHILPANCINGO, GRO.                          1,089.0              1,331.0              2,419.9
GUERNAVACA, NOR.                            2,039.8              2,493.1              4,533.0
GOUACAN, SIN.                                 681.1              1,517.7              2,198.8
IRAPUATO, GRO.                              1,036.4              2,877.7              4,714.1
LA PAZ, BCS.                                  977.9              2,281.7              3,259.5
LEON, GTO.                                  1,907.4              2,331.3              4,238.8
LOSMOCEIS, SIN.                             2,854.1              4,020.5              6,874.6
MANZANILLO, COL.                            4,723.3             10,128.1             14,851.4
MATAMOROS, TANPS.                             338.0                727.8              1,065.8
MAZATLAN, SIN.                              1,861.4              4,499.7              6,361.1
SONCLOVA-FRODTERA, COAB .                     239.4                292.7                532.2
MORELIA, MICE.                              3,430.1              6,497.8              9,927.9
NOGALES, SON.                                 *11.1                991.3              1,802.4
PAGHUGA, EGO.                               2,691.8              6,281.0              8,972.8
PTO. VALLARTA, JAL.                           809.2              1,887.7              2,696.9
QUERETARO, QRO.                                 9.8                 22.9                 32.7
REYNOSA, TAMPS.                               671.9                961.7              1,633.6
SALTILLO, COAN.                             1,131.7              1,353.2              2,514.8
TAMPICO-CD. KADZRO, TAMPS.                    336.6                772.9              1,109.5
TEPIC, NAY.                                 1,102.6              1,247.7              2,450.3
TORREON, COA8.                              1,297.0              1,585.2              2,882.1
DZSARROLLO INSTITUCIONAL                        0.0              1,638.0              1,638.0
TOMML                         45,016.9             80,554.7'           128,571.6
3     Differs from amount shown in Table 4 (US$ 95.3 million) due to rate-of-exchange
differences (US$ 9.09 million) and reallocation for reconstruction of Mexico City (Us$ 15.05
million); also, see Part II, Attachmont (p. 42).



- 54 -
Table 4: Actual and Forecast Disbursement Timetable
(in US milton equvaLent)
Loan 1186-ME                             Loan 1913-ME                          Loan 2283-ME
- Anmiau           cuiatTive             Arnml CtuLmttve                        Anrnal             CumuLative
Disbursa_wnts      0U aburswments        Olsbursum nts       Disburs_ments    Disbursements         Di sbursements
Act-                                   Act-                                   Act-
ual as                                 uat as                                 uaL as
Per-                                   Per-                                   Per-
cent of                                cent of                                 cent a
Act- Fore-   Act- Fore-   Fore-          Act- Fore-   Act- Fore-  Fore-         Act- Fore-   Act- Fore-  Fore-
FY    uwl  cast    uat  cast    cat             uaL  cast    utl  cat   cast           uaL  cast    ual  cast   cat
...  ....... ...  ....                   -- --    .... ....   ....              .... ....    .... ....   .....
1976     --   0.5      --    0.5                   --   --       --    --                --   --       --    --
1977     --  13.5      --   14.0                   --   --       --    --                --   --       -      --
1978     --  16.0      --   30.0                   --   --       --  -                   --   --       --    --
1979     5.4  9.0      5.4  39.0       13.8        --   --       --    -                 --   --       --    -
1980    15.6  1.0    21.0  40.0       52.5         --   --       --    --                --   --       --    --
1981     2.6          23.6            59.0         --                  5.0               --   --       --    --
1982     5.2          286              72.0      12.6 22.0    12.6  32.0   39.3          --   --       --    --
1983     0.8          29.6            74.0         7.4 47.0    19.9  79.0   25.2         --   --       --    --
1984    10.2          39.8            99.5       13.7 46.0    33.6 125.0   26.9          9.3  6.9      9.3   6.9  134.5
1985                                             25.3          59.0          47.2        5.0 25.1    14.3  32.0   44.6
1986                                              8.2          67.1          53.7        9.9 39.0    24.2  71.0   34.1
1987                                               8.6          75.7         60.6       12.9 16.8    37.1  87.8   42.3
1988                                                                                    27.0  7.9    64.1  95.7   67.0
1989                                                                                    12.8  2.3    76.9  98.0   78.4
1990                                                                                     4.4  2.3    81.3 100.3   81.0
1991                                                                                    14.0          95.3          95.0



- 55 -
Tab1i  5.11  Allocation of Proceeds, Loan 1186-MOJ  Apraisal, K viasd & actual
A2rALMI                Revised               Actual
(As por Loan          (As pow Loan
Agreement, dated    Agreement, dated,
01/13/76)             01/20/83)
Category 1:
Equipment, materials,         27,300,000             35,800,000            35,790,3901
and
civil works
Category 2:  Training             200,000               200,000               ---
Program
Category 3:  Interest          4,000,000              4,000,000             4,000,000
Category 4:                    3,500,000                _                     ---
Unallocated
40,000,000            40,000,000            39,790,3901
Differs from foreign coat of FIFAPA I (US$35.9 million) due to foreign exchange
fluctuations.
2 Asount cancelled: $209,610



- 56 -
Table 5.2: Allocatton of Proceeds, Loan 1913-ME: Appraisal and Actual (in US$)
Apinraisal                 Ata
(As per Loan
Agreement, dated
02/23/al)
Category It Equipm*nt, materials,
civil works, engineering,         $125,000,000           75,724.795 .59 3 '
and technical assistance
Amount cancelled: $49,275,204.41.
4 Differs from foreign cost of FIFAPA II (US$70.9 million, se- Part rrr, Table 3.2),
due to rate-of-exchange difference (see Part II, Component A, Attachment).



- 57 -
TabLe 5.3:  ALLocation of Proceeds, Loan 2281-ME:  Appraisal, Revised & Actual (in Us doLtars)
__________________________     )       AcoralsaL                                               Revi s.d                 _
As per Loan             As per 8ank           As per lank          As per Bank
Aoreement. 02/25/81    Letter, 01/15/86    Letter, 02/26/88   Letter 01/11/90               Actual
(1)  Equipment, materials,             35,649,875             36,649,875           15,604,875          15,604,875        3,740,501.52
civiL works and
consultants' services
for Part A of the
project.                                                                 _ _       _I
(2)  Equipment, materials              62,000,000             44,000,000           61,000,000          61,000,000       74,599,628.44
civiL works and
consultants' services
for Part B (middle-
size cities)
(3)  Equipment, materials,               2,400,000             2,400,000            2,400,000           2,400,000        1,634,638.44
end consultants' fees
for Part C
(4)  Equipnent, materials,                 --                 15,000,000           15,045,000          15,045,000       15,044,864.87
and consultants, for
Part 0.1 (earthquake
reconstruction)
(5)  Equipment, materials,                  -                  3,000,000            6,000,000           6,000,000
civil works and
engineering
consuttants' services
for Part D.2
(6)  Fee                                250. 125                2503   125           250. 125            250. 125             250. 125
100,300,000            100,300,000          100,300,000         100,300,000         95,269,758.27
A ount canceled: US$5,030,241.73.
2 Differs from foreign cost of FIFAPA III (US$80.5 million, soo Part Ill, Table 4.2) by
including disbursements for earthquake reconstruction (USS15.0 million) and also because
of a rate-of-exchange differenct: US$0.029 million.



Table 6: Pr2ject Imolementation
Page 1 of 6 pages
A. Beneficiaries Cities
FIFAPA I                        JIFAPA II                 FIFAPA III
ACAPULCO, GRO.
CD. JUAREZ, CHSI.
CD. OBREGON, SON.
CD. VICTORIA, TAMP.           CD. VICTORIA, TAMP.
CULIACAN, SIN.  ./            CULIACAN, SIN.              CULIACAN, SIN.
COZUMEL, Q.R.
CUERNAVACA, MOR.
CHIHUAHUA, CHIH.
CHILPANCINGO, GRO.
IRAPUATO, GTO.
LA PAZ, B.C.
LEON, GTO.
LOS MOCHIS, SIN.
MANZANILLO, COL.
MATAMOROS, TAMP.           MATAMOROS, TAMP.
MAZATLAN, SIN.
MEXICALI, B.C.                                            MEXICO, D.F.
MONCLOVA, COAH.            MONCLOVA, COAH.
MORELIA, MICH.                                            MORELIA, MICH.
NEZAHUALCOYOTL, MEX.
NOGALES, SON.              NOGALES, SON.
PACHUCA, GOC.
PTO. VALLARTA, JAL.
QUERETARO, QRO.
REYNOSA, TAXPS.               REYNOSA, TAMPS.             REYNOSA, TAMPS.
SALTILLO, COAH.
TAMPICO-MADERO, TAM.          TAMP.-MADERO, TAM.          TAMPICO, TAM.
TEPIC, NAY.                TEPIC, NAY.
TOLUCA, MEX.
TORREON, COAH.
TUXTLA GTEZ., CHIS.
ZACATECAS, ZAC.
I] Added to project; Jalapa and Salmanca withdrew from project.



- 59 -
Table  6.1   Selected  Monitorina  Indicators
FIfAPA I (1962)
Total       P o p u  l a t I o n       Number of       Unheccmted    Averae Wator Tariff
Population        S * r v a d           Conrection       For Water             Dic.1962
Beneficiary Citieo                             ('000)                X                ('000)              X             CU/w    (S/wi)
Appr.  PCI       AWe.       PCA         Appr.  PCd       Appf.  PCR          Appe.     PCI
Water Supply    140   124         59        69          15     15        20     30            2.4      4.5
CO VICTORIA, TAN.            Sewrag                             70       66          17     15
Water Suppty    411   316         95        89          56     45        22     22            4.6      7.6
NEXICALI, S.C.               Seweraog                          s0        51          47     25
Water Supply    271   241         90        93          41     37        21     35            2.8      1.5
NCELIA, NIC.                 Sewerog                            78       64          35     26
Water Suppty    257   235         80        70          34     27        23     35            2.5      4.2
RETNSA, TAN.                S*werag                             60       56          26     22
Water Suppty    433   400         80        76          58     51        23     30            4.2      3.9
TAMPICO-CD.  ADERO, TAM.    Sewerage                            70       67          50     45
Water Supply    116   106         95        90          17     13        20     34            4.4       1.5
TUTLA GUTIEREZ, CNI.         Sewerag                            75       75          14      U



- 60 -
6.     Project  Imolementation  (Cont'd)
Table 6.2 Selected Monitorina Indicators
FIFAPA I[ (1988)
Total     Population   Number of   Unaccounted   Average Water Tariffs
Population      Served    Connections   For Water          1984      1988
Beneficiary Cities                                (000)           X          ('000)          X          (S/m3)    (S/m3)
Appr.1/  PCR       Appr.  PCR   Appr.  PCR   Appr. PCR         Appr.       PCR
Water Supply   443   203         92    84        -    42      25   27        6.4       55.2
MONCLOVA,FRONTERA,COA         Sewerage                          83    41      ...   21
Water Supply   170    81         84    60       ---   12      25   22        9.5       16.2
NOGALES, SON.                 Sewerage                          70    29      ...    6
Water SuppLy   191   190         90    72       ..   37       25   61        4.4       25.1
TEPIC, NAY.                   Sewerage                          80    52       -    20
Water Supply   443   547         93    68       ...   62      25   40        6.2      389.1
TOLUCA, MEX.                  Sewerage                          83    61      ---   56
1/  Appraisal data for 1988, which does not appear in the SAR for FIFAPA II, was supplied by BANOBRAS.



- 61 -
6. Proiect Implementation (Cont'd)
Table 6.3 Selectod Monitorina Indicators
FIFAPA llI (1991)
Total     P o p u l a t I a n   Number of   Unaccounted   Avrege Water Tariffs
Populatlon       S * r v a d       Conrnctions   For Water          July 1991
8eneficiary Cities                                ('000)             X               ('000)             X          (S/U3       (S/3)
Appr. 1/ PCR       Appr.   PCR         Appr. PCR      Appr. PCR         Appr.      PCR
Water Supply    613   566          90      96         86   90         25    36        70         708
CU.LIACAH, SIM.               Sewerage                           sO      78         77   74
ater Supply    218    226          95      92         60   42         25    25        23        1434
LOS MOCHIS, SIN.              Serage                             85      87         54   40
Water Supply    423    272         95      95         34   84         25    25        68         515
KAZATLAN. SIM.                Sewerage                           85      55         30   49
1/  AppraisaL data, which does not appear in SAR for FIFAPA 111, was supplied by BANOBRAS.
leneficiaries not Included In SAR
Water Supply    ---    528                 80         --   71         --    36                  2462
ACAPULCO, GRO.                Sewerage                          ..        59              52
Water Supply    ---    443        ...      86         --   64          --    25                  466
CUERNAVACA, HOR.              Sewerage                          --       73               53
Water Supply    ---    514        ...      95             122                30                  695
CHIHUAHMA, CHI                Sewerage                          ---      83         --  107
Water Supply    ---    112        ---      97         --   17                25                  600
CHILPAMCINGO, GRO.            S*wrage                           -        89               16
Water Supply    ---    290        ---      86              42          --    25                  583
IRAPUATO, GTO.                Seweroge                          ---      77         --   37
Water Supply      -      131      ---      89              26          -     16        --       2420
LA PAZ, BCS.                  Sewrage                           ---      65               19
Water Supply    ...    837        ---      95             159           -    25       ...       583
LEON, GTO.                    Sewrage                           ---      84              141
Uater Supply    ---       87      ...      88         --   19          --    33       ---      1710
NAIZANILLO, COL.              Sewerage                          ...      66         --   14
Water Supply    ...    497        -.       95         --   89                25        --      1919
NORELIA, NIC.                 Sewerage                          ---      91               s5
Water Supply    ---    140        .*-      85         --   24          --    61       ---       144
PACHUCA, HGO.                 SewrJge                           ---      85         --   23
Water Supply    ---       82       --      63         --   15          4-                       737U
PUERTO VALLARTA, JAL.         Sewerage                           4-       8   12
Uater Supply    ---    429        ---       U4              78               29       ...      1942
SALTILLO, COA.                Seuwrag                           ---      80         --   70
water Supply    ---    711        ---      90          -  107          --    30       ---       382
TORREON, COA.                 Sewerage                           --      70               83



LF- 62 -
Table 6.4: Project Results -- Studies
6.   Project ReSUlts                                               Page 1 of 3
A. Studies Carried Out In Connection with Loan 1186-ME
Purpose as De-Jn eG
studies                    At Aporaisal          Status                Impat of Study
Inventory of all       Survey results to       Degan prior to Loan    Permitted a better
water supply and        facilitate              approval and           planing of the
sewerage systems for   implementation of        successfully           investments.
urban communities       recommendations         completed.
with more than 2,500   contained In (L) the
inhabitants.           National Hydraulic
Plan -- UNDP-
financed project
with Bank as
executing agency and
(i$) Bank sector
study.
Water pollution         The Preparation of      Completd.              Defined priority
control surveys,       detailed feasibility                            areas for lnvestment
studies of projects                            in pollution
to be carried out in                            control.
areas to be
determined by
government and Ln
agreement with the
Bank.
National Water          Creation of data        Partially carried      Helped the Program:
metering Study.         base on metering        out.                    "Uco Eficiente del
situation in all                               Aqua".  (IffiCiont
systems operated by                            use of Water).
SRE to: (i) control
leaks/losses and the
quantity of
unaccounted-for
water, and (ii)
estimate positive
SRH metering
efforts.



- 63 -
B & C: Studies Carried out Under Loans 1913dlS 6 2281-M         Table 6.4 (Cont'd.)
Page 2 of 3 pages
Studies                         sthaun                          Imnact of Study
Toluca, Institutional           Completed.                      Implemented accounting,
Development Program for                                         finazcin gand commercial
Beneficiary.                                                    programs, *.g., for
stock/Lnventory fixed
assets, personnel, leak
detection and operating
manuals.
Culiacan, InstitutLonal         Completed.                      Hlped to define accounting
Development Program for                                         for an efficient operating
B-neficiary.                                                    company and Lt is used now
as model in the new program
OConsolidaci6n".
Topic, Subdivision of           Cmpleted.                       Itemization of updated plans
Distribution Network and                                        of water distribution
operational Analysis of                                         systems for more efficient
Water Mains.                                                    operation.
ManzanLllo, updating            Completed.                      Strengthened beneficiary in
user/connection distribution                                    billing illegal connections
maps, based on a physical                                       and improved meter reading
census of connections and                                       and billing, both of which
redesign of meter reading                                       increased revenues.
routes.
Morelia, technical,             Cospleted                       Develbp-d program for
financial and administrative                                    organization of office
analysis,                                                       procedures, large scale
metering, -- of connectLon
and billlng collection
Irapuato, study for             Completed.                      Developed programs for
institutional development of                                    organization office
b-neficiary.                                                    procedures of census,
productLon, metering,
connections, and billing and
collection.



-64 -
Table 6.4 (Cont'd.)
Page 3 of 3
Studies                         Stat                             ID=act of Study
Saltillo, d-velopment of        Complete.                        Acquisition of computer
mechanized systems for                                           software increased
billing and bookeeping                                           beneficiary operational
ledgers of the b-neficiary.                                      efficiency.
Chihuahua, Management           Complete.                        Now information equipment
Information System.                                              permitted integration of
data with high level of
advantages to beneficiary
decision makers.
Cuernavaca, updating of          Complete                        Sufficient manuals were
user/List, based on a                                            printed for distribution to
physical census of                                               beneficiaries.
connection and a redesign of
meter reading routes.
With study results,              Complete                        Increase revenues for more
increased income from more                                       efficient bililng.
efficient billLng. Manuals
and Models permitted
incorporation of technlcal
and management principles
promoted by FIFAPA which
strengthened beneficiaries.
With study results,             -
increased income from more
efficient billing.



- 65 -
Table 7: Use of Sank Reeources:
Staff Weeks in Feltd
Page 1 of 5
1974  1975 1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1961  1962  1963  1964  1985  1986  1987 1988  1989  1990 TotaL
1. Loan 1186-NE
Preparatfon    17.5  7.5 .   -           --                          -       -      -       -.                -     25.0
Appralsat            12.0 4.0  .... ...                                                               .        .57.5
superv1slon                      7.0  6.0   4.0   2.0  3.5  10.0  4.0   5.0   --.41.5
Totat    17.5  19.5  4.0   7.0  6.0  4.0   2.0  3.5  10.0  4.0   5.0              .-2.5
2. Loan 1913-NE
Preratfon                                   18.5  3.0   --   --   --    --                                          21.5
Apprsat          -     -a10.0   .                                .       .      .       .       .      .10.0
Supervisfon      ..3.0  1Z.0  24.0   4.0   3.0  6.0   1.0  -                                           -53.0
Total                                  18.5  13.0  3.0  1Z.0  Z4.0   4.0  3.0  6.0   1.0  0.0   0.0  0.0  84.5
3. Loan 2282-ME
Preration                                                6.0   --   --                                          --  6.0
Approisat l12.0  5.0.                                                                                           --  17.0
Supervisfon                                                     --  1.0   3.5   2.0  14.0      9     3     2    -- 34.5
Total                                               6.0  12.0  6.0   3.5   2.0  14.0  9.0   3.0   2.0  0.0  57.5
Total, All Loan  17.5  19.5  4.0   7.0  6.0  22.5  15.0  12.5  34.0  34.0  12.5  5.0  20.0  10.0  3.0   2.0  0.0 224.5



- 66 -
Table 7 (Cont'd)
P.EG 2 of 5
Hissionm to Suo ruise Loan 1186-M7
Performance
Stage of          Month/      wo. of    Weeks ln  Specialization   Rating            Type of
Project Cvcle        Y-r         efrsons                  R  r-sntd    stus            Problem
Identification         1/74 3         5             S      I  YCt; PA        Not rated    (NR)
Preparation             2/74 1        3             0.5   ZUG; FC            KR
Preappraisal I         8/74           4             1     ZUG) FA; FC        KR
Preappraisal TI        9/74           4             9     1gm; PA            NR
Preappraisal III      12/74           3             2     1gm; PA            NR
Preappraisal IV        3/75           3             21.    A; 1Na            NR
Sub-Total        25
Appraisal               6/75          3                   ZUG; VrA           NR
Total, Project Processing  }i
Sup,ervision
SupervisLon             5/76          2             1      ENO; PA                2            M
Supervision            10/76          2             3     3XG; PA                 2            M
Supervision             5/77          2             4     1m; PA                  2            M
Supervision            12/77          2             3     1NG; PA                 3        M, T, P
Supervision             4/78          2             2      330; PA                3        M, T, P
Supervision            10/78          2             4     XNMG  FA                3.           M
Supervision             3/79          2             1     1NG                     2            M
Supervision             6/79          2             3      NMG; PA                2           M
Supervision            2/80           2             1     ZG; IFA                 2            M
Supervision           10/80           2             1       ZUG; PA               2            M
Supervision 3          4/81           3             2     1NG; PA; YP             2            M
Supervision Y          9/81           2             1.5   ZNG; PA                 2           M
Supervision '          2/82           S             2     ENO; PA; PS             2           M
1/ Two comsultents In the fietd for thre weeks, Joined by 9ank staff. Ceirned with mission for urban sector study.
21   Combined with Supervision muison fer Lem 909-
J/   CambIned fssfion for Loa  1186-0I &d 1913-NE.



- 67 -
Tabte 7 (Cont'd)
Page 3 of 5
Performance
Stage of         Month/      No. of    Weeks in  Specialization   Rating         Type of
Proiect Cycle        Ysak         Persons   Field       ReDresented    Status       Proble
Supdrvilion F         7/82           3            2     ENG; FA                2       M
Supervision Y         10/82          5            6     ENG; FA                2          H, F
Supervision ?          6/83          4            3     ENG; FA                3          M, F
Supervision '         9-10/83        2            1     ENG; FA                3          M, F
Supervision F          3/84          2            1     ENG; FA                3          M, F
Supervision !         5-6/84         3            1     ENG; FA                2           M
Total, Supervision           30
KEY: EC - Economist; ENG - Engineer; FA - Financial Analyst; YP - Young Professional; PS -
Procurement Specialist; H - Managuriall T - Technical; P - Political; CONS - Consultant.
4/   Combined saslons for Loan 1186-ME, 1913-WE end 2281-NE.



- 6R -
Tabto 7 (Cont'd)
pae 4 of 5
Missions to Supervise Loan 1913-ME
Performance
Stage of         Month/      No. of    Weeks in  Specialization   Rating          Type of
Proiect Cycle        Yer         Persons     Field      Represented    Status        Problem
Identification        2/79          2            2      ENG; EC           Not rated   (NR)
Preparation I        11/79          3             1.5   ENG; EC           NR
Preparation II      11-12/79        5           15      ENG; EC; FA       NR
Preparation III      2-3/80         3             31    ENG; EC; FA       NR
Sub-Total        21.5
Appraisal             3/80          S                   ENG; EC; FA       NR
Post Appraisal        6/80          4            2      ENG; EC; FA
Sub-Total        10
Total, Project Processing   32.5
Supervision '         4/81          3             1.5   FA; ENG; YP            1            1
Supervision 1'        9/81          2             1.5   FA; ENG                1            H
Supervision l.        2/82          5             2.8   ENG; FA; PS;           1 I
CONS.
Supervision 1         7/82          3             2.5   ENG; FA                1            M
Supervision '        10/82          S             6.4   ENG; FA; CONS.         2          M, F
Supervision           5/83          4            14.5   ENG; FA           NR; Purpose of mission
was to reduce project
scope and cost.
Supervision           6/83          4             7     ENG; FA                3          M, F
Supervision 1        9-10/83        3             2     FA; ENG; CONS.         3            F
Supervision 1         3/84          2             1     ENG; FA                3           M,F
Supervision 1        5-6/84         3             1.5   ENG; FA; CONS.         3            M
Supervision Y        10/84          2             1.5   ENG; FA                2-           M
Supervision 1         4/85          2             1.5   FA; CONS.              2            M
Supervision 1       10-11/85        2             1.5   ENG; FA                3          M, F
Supervision 1        2-3/86         2             3     ENG; FA                3          M, F
Supervision Y         7/86          3             3     ENG; FA                3          M, F
Supervision 1         2/87          1             1     ENG                    3           M,F
TOTAL        52
Misslons to Supervise Loan 2281-ME
j/   CoSbined with missions for Loan 11-86-ME.
2/   Cowbined missions for Loans 1186-ME, nd 2281-ME.
/   Combined with missions for Loan 2281-ME.



o9 -
Table 7 CContsd)
pace S off S
Performance
Stage of         Month/      No. of    Weeks in  Specialization   Rating           Type of
Proiect Cycle        Year      Persons       Field      Represented    status         problem
Identification       3-4/81          3            3     ENG; FNA; YP       Not rated   (NR)
Preparation           8/81           3            3     ENG; FNA; CONS.  NR
Preparation           2/82           4            2     ENG; FNA           NR
Sub-Total         8
Appraisal             4/82           4           12      rNA; ECN; ENG;   NR
CONS.
Post Appraisal        2/83           2            5     FNA; ENG           NR
Sub-Total        17
Total, Project Processing  25
Supervision i'       9-10/83         3            1     ENG; FA; CONS.          1
Supervision 1'        3/84           2            1     ENG; FA                 2            M
Supervision 2        5-6/84          3            1     ENGI PA; CONS.          2            M
Supervision P        9-10/84         2            1.5   ENG; FA                 2            M
Supervision '         4/85           2            1.5   ENGI PA;                2            H
Supervision 2       10-11/85         2            0.5   ENG; PA                 3            M
Supervision Y        2-3/86          1            2      FA                NR
Supervision Y        2-3/86          2            6      FA; CONS.              3          M, F
Supervision Y         7/86           3            6      ENG                    3           M,F
Supervision 7         2/87           2            2     ENG; EC                 3          M, F
Supervision           7/87           3            2.5   ENG; EC; CONS.          3          M, F
Supervision           12/87          3            4.5   ENG; FA; CONS.          2          M, F
Supervision          7-8/88          3            4.5   ENG; PA; CONS.          2          M, P
Supervision           12/89          2           __2    ENG; FA                 2           M F
Total, Supervision    36
j/   Conbined with 1186-ME and 1913-ME.
j/   Combined mission with Loan 1913-ME.



- 70 -
TabLe 8: Status of Covennts
Paoe 1 of 4 Pages
LOAN 1186-ME
Covenant                                    Deadline for
Loan Aareement            Subect                 Compliance                Status
4.01                  Subloans to be made
in accordance with
leanding policies
and procedures as
indicatad in                    N.A.           Complied
Schedule 5 of the
Loan Agreement.
5.01                  Borrower to maintain
adequate and
separate accounts               N.A.           Complied
for the Fund.
5.02                  Audit of accounts       No later than March   Often delayed but
and financial          30 of each year.        complied.
statements of Trust
Fund by qualified
independent
auditors.
Guarantee
3.01                  Guarantor to provide  Throughout project       Counterpart fund
sufficient funds and  implementation.          shortages were
resources for                                  experienced during
carrying out the                               the economic crisis
project.                                       of 1982.
3.04                  Preparation and         Preparation within     Both completed in
implementation of      six months of loan    September 1978.
guidelines for         signing.  Implemen-
project preparation,   tation within twelve
design and appraisal  months of loan
of water supply and   signing.
sewerage systems in
urban areas.



- 71 -
TabLe 8: Status of Covenants
Page 2 of 4 Pages
Covenant               Subiect              Deadline for
Guarantee Aareement                                Compliance                 Status
3.05 (a) & (b)        Maintain special        Throughout project    Not complied with
unit adequately        implementation.         during early stages
staffed in SRH to                              of project execution
carry out                                      due to frequent
feasibility studies                            changes of management
and appraisal of                               and staff.  Complied
projects, as well as                           since 1979.
project supervision.
3.06                  Furnish to Bank a       Within three years    Completed late.
complete inventory    of loan signing.
of all water supply
and sewerage systems
in Mexico urban
communities with
more than 2,500
inhabitants.
3.07                  Furnish to Bank a       December 31, 1977       Complied in 1983.
nation-wide training  (or date mutually
program.               agreed).
3.10                  Encourage industrial  Through project          Complied.
and other entities     implementation.
that distribute
water to transfer
such distribution to
corresponding
municipal
authorities, or
their agencies, or
concessionaires.
3.11                  Carry out               Water metering          Complied.
feasibility studies   studies to be
for the control of    carried out within
pollution in areas    42 months of loan
to be agreed, carry   signing.
out studies on water
metering in systems
operated by SRH.



- 72 -
Table 8: Status of Covenants
Pa* 3 of 4 Pages
Loan 1913-ME
Covenant                                       Deadline for
Loan Aareemontub1ect                               Compliance                  Status
3.02 (b)         Full commitment of Loan.  June 30, 1992.             In compliance.
4.02             Annual audit of FIFIPA       1982 and ther-after.   In compliance.
trust fund.
Schedule 5.B    Financial and other           Year after signing      Partial compliance:
covenants In subloan        of subloan.              Inadequate tariff
agreements.                                          levels on part of
beneficiaries because
major problems of the
financial crisis of
1982.
Guarantee
Acroament
2.02             Provide counterpart          1981 and thereafter.  Shortages experienced
funds.                                              in 1982-1983; there-
after, availability of
Federal grants caused
beneficiaries to
reduco their result to
FIFIPA.
3.01             Insurances                   Immediate               In compliance
3.04             Framework Tariff Study.   June 30, 1983.             In compliance
4.02             Maintain special project   Immediate                 In compliance until
unit.                                               1986, when unit was
dissolved and its
functions transferred
to other departments
in SEDUE.
4.03             Maintain National            Immediate               In compliance
Training Program.



- 73 -
Table 8: Status of Coveants
Pace 4 of 4 Pages
Loan 2281-ME
Covenant                                      Deadline for
Loan Agreement            Subiect                 Compliance                 Status
3.02 (b)         Full commitment of Loan.  December 31, 1985.        In compliance.
4.02             Annual audit of FIFIPA    1984 and thereafter.   In compliance.
trust fund.
5.01             Semiannual reports          December 1984           In compliance.
Schedule 5.B    Financial and other          Year after signing    Partial compliance:
covenants in subloan        of subloan.            Beneficiaries were
agreements.                                        slow to raise tariffs.
Guarantee
Agreement
2.02             Provide counterpart         1984 and thereafter.   Partial compliance:
funds.                                             availability of grant
funds during 1984-87.
3.01             Insurance                   Immediate               In compliance
3.05             Furnish the Bank with       December 31, 1985.      Partial compliance
the monitor indicators
of each regional
company.
4.02             Maintain special project  Immediate                 In compliance until
unit.                                              1986, when unit was
dissolved and its
functions transferred
to other departments
in SEDUE.
4.03             Maintain National           Immediate               In compliance
Training Program.



