CIRCULATING COPY
FILE        COPY' BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1727-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y
SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER
SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
December 4, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit - Peso (Me4)
US$1.00 .           Me'c$12.50
Mex$1.00       -    Us$  0.08
Mex$1 million  -    US$80,000
Fiscal Year    -    January 1 to December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES FOR A MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
WATER SUPPLY AND SEIERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BNOSP) with
the guarantee of the United Mexican States for the equivalent of
US$40 million, to help finance a medium size cities water supply and
sewerage project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including four
years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Some of the major structural features of the Mexican economy -
past,present and future - were analyzed in "The Economy of Mexico: A
Basic Report" (192-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on June 26,
1973; short-run trends in 1973-75 were covered in "Mexico: Current Economic
Position and Prospects"., distributed on September 27, 1974. Another
updating report on the economy is now being prepared by a mission which
visited Mexico in July this year. Country data sheets are contained in
Annex I.
3.        For the three most recent decades, the Mexican economic system
measured in terms of GDP growth, has been outstandingly successful. Since
1940, the annual average growth rate has exceeded 6 percent. And from
the mid-1950's to 1972, Mexico was among the few countries in the developing
world to combine sustained and rapid growth with monetary and balance of
payments stability. Inflation averaged less than 5 percent a year and the
dollar value of the peso was maintained at the level fixed in 1954.
4.        Rapid and sustained growth was the product of successful policies
affecting the mobilization and use of both private and public sector
resources. The role of Government in promoting economic growth was expressed
on the one hand in the development of strategic infrastructure and major
utility industries and, on the other, in policies which featured price
support, import control and agrarian reform measures in the agricultural
sector and external protection and the provision of fiscal incentives in
the industrial sector.
5.        The sectoral emphasi  of public and private investment was
reflected in changes in the structure of output and employment an6
particularly in the expansion of manufacturing industry. Agricultur-e,



nevertheless, continued to be the chief source of livelihood for much
of the population and in 1970 accounted for almost 40 percent of total
employment.
6.        In spite of rapid and sustained economic growth over this long
period, the combination of a high demographic growth rate - rising to
about 3.4 percent per year in the 1960s - and, until fairly recently
an emphasis on import substitution in inaustry, have prevented an
adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employment. Industrial
growth has been quite rapid - about 8 percent annually since the mid-
fifties - but could have been even faster if industrial and trade policies
had been primarily focused on exploiting Mexicots unique export
opportunities based on its contiguity to a large industrial market in
which labor costs are much higher than those in Mexico. It was only in
the early seventies that some important steps were taken to develop
manufacturingexports on a large scale - the system of drawbacks on domestic
taxes paid on exports and the "border industriest" regime were introduced
at that time, and these have been so highly successful as to suggest that
a lot more could still be done. As it is, 40 percent of the labor force
is estimated to be still engaged in marginal occupations - relatively
unproductive and hence poorly paid - or to be openly unemployed.
7.        The Mexican strategy for development has, in the past, relied
on a combination of public action and private profit. The Government has
played a highly important role in this process, both in promoting key
industries, such as power and petroleum, and in creating a regulatory
and institutional framework within which private and social groups could
compete and contend, but which was both firm enough and flexible enough
to ensure overall continuity and stability. As a formula for growth,
this system has served Mexico well; it has however also led to a
sharpening of contrasts in income and wealth between people and among
regions. This was not entirely an incidental by-product of the process
of growth; the share of the Government in the economy was kept down
quite deliberately for many years, and the scope of redistributive
policies was necessarily limited as long as the tax ratios remained under
ten percent - among the lowest in the world. The Government played a
crucial role in the development of private commercial agriculture through
irrigation and credit policies and of industry through the provision of
infrastructure, education, social legislation and financial policies, but
it did not concern itself primarily with the problems of the poorest
sections of the population. While the process of land reform based on the
1915 legislation was sustained, the absence of abundant fiscal resources
made it impossible to develop major programs to improve the economic
status of its beneficiaries. The present Government, however, came to
power on a program of combining past growth policies with much greater
efforts in favor of the rural poor, and has launched a number of ambitious
initiatives in this direction.



- 3 -
8.        The attempts which have been maae by the present administration
(1970-76) to alleviate the poverty of the countryside and to redress some
of the imbalances between rural and urban Mexico have several dimensions.
They include a revised Agrarian Reform Law (1971) and a new Federal Water
Law (1972), both of which are intended to promote a more equitable
distribution of basic agricultural resources. These measures have been
complemented by changes in the sectoral allocation of agricultural credit
in order to increase the share of low-income farmers and ejidatarios
(members of ejidos. which are a form of collective land tenure based on
usufruct), and the introduction of higher support prices for basic
foodcrops. The Government has also increased outlays for agricultural
research, training and extension services, with particular regard to
the needs of peasant farmers. Perhaps the most significant innovation
has been a new program for integrated rural development with which the
World Bank has been associated from an early stage.
9.        The social and economic needs of the rural sector have not
monopolized government attention; those of urban-industrial development
have also been stressed in the form of heavy public investment in basic
industries - delayed during the 1960's - and an innovative low-income
housing program which has been financed with a f4ve percent payroll tax.
Productive investment has thus been complemented, in the urban as well
as the rural economy, by institutional changes and public expenditures
designed to improve the living conditions of the poor. This parallel
effort has, however, generated several problems of short-run economic
management.
10.       In 1971, after monetary and balance of payments pressures had
emerged during the previous year, the (then new) Government took stringent
action to control demand with the effect that the GDP growth rate fell to
3.7 percent by comparison with a decade average of 7.1 percent in the
1960's. In 1972, renewed expansion was stimulated by public expenditure
and the GDP growth rate rose to 7.4 percent. There was another year of
rapid growth (7.6 percent) in 1973 - but this time associated with an
increase of 21 percent in the GDP deflator which was strongly associated
with the impact of external inflation. Inflation was not the only novelty;
private domestic financial savings, which in the past had helped finance
sustained growth increased by only 11 percent, compared with an average
annual rate of increase of 18 percent in 1965-71; the inflow of private
capital was replaced by a net outflow; and private investment - particularly
in the industrial sector - slackened, reflecting some uncertainty on the
part of the business community and a declining interest rate differential
vis-a-vis those prevailing on financial savings instruments in the United
States. In the public sector, the fiscal deficit amounted to 5.6 percent
of GDP by comparison with an average of 2.7 percent in 1965-71. A major
share of the limited expansion of real credit was used to finance part of
this deficit while net external borrowing of US$1.2 billion (2.4 percent
of GDP) was deployed to finance the rest. These trends were inevitably
reflected in the balance of payments, where the current account deficit
rose to 3 percent of GDP (by comparison with an average of 2.0 percent
in 1965-71).



- 4 -
11.       Noting these trends, the authorities had, by mid-1973, adopted
a restrictive monetary and credit policy and complemented this with what
was originally intended to be an austere public finance program for
FY74. Taken together, these measures were expected to restrict demand
and to reduce both inflation and the size of the current account deficit
in the balance of payments.  The results for the year indicate that
whereas the former objective was achieved, the latter was not. Monetary
and credit policies were, on the whole, carried out as planned; the rate
of increase of prices decelerated from April onwards, and a positive
differential between Mexican and foreign interest rates had been re-
established by the end of the year. Credit was not however allocated as
originally intended because the public sector again pre-empted a large
part of the available expansion. Higher than planned public expenditures
and lower than expected revenues meant, moreoverp that the fiscal deficit
was larger than foreseen as were the growth rates of aggregate demand and
of real imports. The deficit in the balance of payments on current
account thus amounted to 4.2 percent of GDP rather than the intended 2.8
percent. Net public external borrowing of more than one year rose to
US$2.4 billion.
12.       During 1975, the Government's original objective was to
achieve sustained economic growth under what were expected to be adverse
conditions associated with the world recession. The public finance
program called for an increase in public expenditures, which was to be
partly financed with a substantial increase in public revenues based on
tax reforms, and it was expected that the public sector deficit could be
reduced to 4.3 percent of GDP by comparison with 5.6 percent in 1974.
Given this, and assuming only a moderate growth of imports in real terms,
a decline in the resource gap and in the current account deficit in the
balance of payments were anticipated. With a modest level of public
internal borrowing and an expected recovery in quasi-money deposits the
intention was to maintain a restrictive monetary policy while allowing a
modest increase in real private credit and on this basis to achieve a
substantial reduction in inflation.
13.       In the light of provisional results for the first half of 1975,
and likely trends for the remainder of the year, it is now clear that the
objectives of this program will not be fully realized. The real GDP growth
rate is expected to be of the order of 4.0 percent, the current account
deficit in the balance of payments is projected at the equivalent of 4.9
percent of GDP, the public sector deficit is expected to be equivalent to
7,8 percent of GDP, quasi-money growth is projected at 11 percent over
the year, and the annual rate of inflation is expected to be approximately
18 percent. In accounting for these trends, it is clear that the growth
of the public sector deficit is a significant factor. It is also clear
however that the world recession has had a much greater than expected
impact on the economy and has moreover been one of the factors that has
led to the growth of the public deficit because the Government has
attempted to counteract the slowdown in economic growth with increased



public expenditures.  The increase in public sector revenues has been
somewhat smaller than expected but will nevertheless amount to an
increase of about 1.8 percentage points of GDP, which represents an
important achievement in resource mobilization. The relatively high rate
of expected inflation and the relatively modest level of projected growth
of quasi-money are closely inter-related, although the growth of quasi-
money is also associated with a narrowing differential in the second half
of the year between Mexican and foreign interest rates. The discrepancy
between the original targets of the 1975 economic program and its likely
outcome is expected to have a constraining influence on economic management
in 1976 and it is expected that the authorities will make a major effort
to control public expenditures and to limit the size of next year's public
deficit. It is also expected that money, credit and balance of payments
policies will be designed to reduce this resource gap. In recent
discussions with Bank staff, the authorities have stressed their
determination to take whatever action may be necessary to reduce inflation,
and to restore financial and balance of payments equilibrium.
1X.       On December 31, 197L, Mexicots outstanding and disbursed public
debt of more than one year was US$7.5 billion. Net medium- and long-
term public borrowing in 1974 of US$2.2 billion reflected heavy reliance
on external as well as internal capital to finance the fiscal deficit and
some borrowing - as in 1973 - to offset private capital movements.
15.       During 1975, it is expected that net public external borrowing
of more than one year will be of the order of US$2.8 billion, which will
amount to 3.1 percent of estimated GDP compared with 2.7 percent in 1974.
Both in 1974 and 1975 a very large proportion of new borrowing has been
in the form of financial credits. Mexico's level of indebtedness is
consistent with the country's projected capacity to service interest and
amortization payments given the expected growth of real exports in the
medium term. The behavior of petroleum exports is an important element
in these projections. After allowing for the growth of domestic consumption,
the rate of growth of crude output and the export surplus will continue
to rise through 1980 by which time net exports of crude and petroleum
products are conservatively projected at US$1,000 million. YMexico's debt
service ratio was 20.5 percent in 197L; the estimate for 1975 is 24.5
percent. The debt service ratio will probably be higher than this in the
remainder of the 1970's and early 80's but can be expected to decline to
about the present level by the mid-80's. The actual level of debt service
payments will, of course, depend on the management of the balance of
payments. The Bank's share of the public debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1974 was approximately 12.9 percent and its share in debt
service payments was about 8.5 percent. These shares are expected to fall
during the remainder of this decade.
16.       Mexico is creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms
provided the Government exercises due restraint in monetary, balance of



pqae;iS, Credi.t acd    a,±oa. pOAJcics an'.J a;bove aLl- a, itains a favorable
climate for oiort ejxa,rasionj its recent o'-teariemnts concerning econo!mac
policies for 197(l s ;est .. i-te-ds to dc sr and it is our intention to
conv-iue to nonito- icv   onnens an close oontact with the Authorities.
17.       In order to meet its fint-ncing needs to assure continued growth
withi equity in the future, flexico will have to strengthen its fiscal
effort and supplement that effort with substantial external borrowing.
Given that the country's diversified industrial structure is capable of
supplying a good part of its capital goods requirements, some local cost
financing by external agencies is necessary. Bank loans in such sectors
as power, transport and industry are traditionally tied to the foreigi
exchange cost of projects. Some local currency financing is justified in
other sectors with characceristically low foreign exchange requirements,
especially for high priority and institutionally complex projects like
agricultural development in which there are substantial economic and social
benefits and which call for slrong institutional support by the Bank.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
18.       As of October 31, 1975., the Bank had made 41 loans to Mexico
for a total of US$2,197.7 million net of cancellations; of these, 25 loans,
totalling US$1,239.9 million, were fully disbursed.   During FY66-70
disbursements averaged some US$70 million per year, increasing to about
US$123 million per year over the period FY71-75.    Some 35 percent of Bank
lending to Mexico has been for agriculture and rural development (13 loans
for close to US$781 million), 32 percent for power (11 loans for some
US$715 million), and 20 percent for transportation projects (11 loans for
US$448 million); the remaining 13 percent of Bank lending has been for
industry and water supply. The execution of Bank financed projects has,,
on the whole, been satisfactory. A number of problems relating to financial
management of the power, railways and ports sectors, on which I reported
to you in earlier President's reports, have now largely been resolved.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 11, 1975,
and notes on the execution of ongoipg projects.
IFC Cperntions
19.       As of October 31, 1975, IFC had made 13 investment commitments
in M-exico, for a total of US$69.9 million, of which US$36.4 million had
been sold, repaid or cancelled.   The balance held by the Corporation,
US$15.6 million, consist of US$12..O million in loans and US$3.6 million in
equitv.  A summary statement of IFC investments as of Cctober 31, 1975 is
prosented in Annex II.



-7-
Bank Strategr
20.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and prograns leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs
leading to continued economic growth, by helping to finance projects that
would, directly or indirectly, make significant contributions to output
and employment and by supporting institutional changes that would contribute
to more effective management of key sectors of the economy; (iii) help
resolve critical adjustnent problems induced by Mexico's continued economic
growth; and (iv) complement M4exico's domestic savings by helping to
finance economic and social investments in a framework of internal and
external financial stability. In the light of Mexico's short- and medium-
term prospects, we intend, during this and the next fiscal years, to pay
special attention to projects that would: (i) make relatively limited
demands on the Government's budget; (ii) help generate public enterprise
revenues and savings; and (iii) have strong balance of payments
implications, either in the form of additional exports or efficient
import substitutions, where Bank participation can play a ctalytic function.
21.       Bank lending to Mexico has evol--ed over the last few years in line with
the goals outlined above, as manifested in its sectoral mix and policy
emphasis. A Bank loan of US$70 million, made for the Las Truchas steel
mill in FY74, for instance, was designed to further the country's industrial
growth as well as to support the Government's policy of industrial
decentralization. Likewise, a fertilizer project, for whic'h the Bank
made a loan of US$50 million in FY75, was intended to enable Mexico to
become independent of imported urea fertilizer in the medium term and to
provide support to the fostering of new poles of development in the
resource-rich southeast region and north central area.
22.       The Bank has, however, put special emphasis on agriculture by
making it the leading sector of its lending. Our lending is aimed at
strengthening and expanding irrigation and agricultural credit programs
to neet the demands of the rapidly growing population and generate foreign
exchange earnings, raising the standard of living and incomes of the
rural poor through a combination of directly productive, social infra-
structure and productive support investments, strengthening Mexico's
institutional capability to use agricultural resources and inputs more
efficiently. Specifically, the Rio Bravo/Rio San Juan irrigation project,
for which a US$150 million loan was approved in FY75, will help bring
agricultural production back in line with domestic and foreign demand and
benefit directly more than 100,000 people through intensive agriculture
and livestock operations on more than a quarter of a million hectares,
thereby quadrupling the incomes of small-scale farmers in the area. The
Papaloapan and the second integrated rural development projects, approved
in FY75 for TUS$50 million and US$110 million loans respectively, are
designed to improve the living conditions and productivity of close to
1.5 million people. Another rural development, an agricultural and two



irrigation projects are now being prepared for possible B.n.k fin-acing.
In addition, we are exploring the possibilit:ies for . lagoon fisi-heries
project and a tropical agricultural rese;.rch ana development project which
would lay the foundation for the future development of hitherto untapped
resources,
23.       As to infrastructure, the Bank's focus has been on the prmvision
of needed investments in key areas of the country, and the promotion and
inplementaticn of institutional reforms and sector policies including the
establishment of suitable pricing mechanisms to mobilize resources to
help firnance investments.  The Mexico City water supply project, where a
loan of US$90 million was made in FY73, was instrumental in the e.,tablishment
of a specialized institution for efficient management of water resources
in the M1exico Valley, cutting across existing functional and administrative
boundaries and the pricing of water to levels more closely related to
costs. An airport development project, approved in FY74 for a lcan of
US$25 million, is supporting the Government's policy of regional integration.
Similar a.ims have been sought through projects in the railwalys, ports,
roads and electric power sectors. Further projects are being prepared
in all these areas, and will be presented in due course.
24.       The proposed project fits the objectives of Bank operations
in Mexico. Through it, additional resources will be mobilized for a
sector that will call for increasing investments to meet the demand. New
institutional arrangements will be set up to adequately plan and prepare
future investments, thereby permitting the introduction of a more
systematic and economic approach to investments in water supply. The
proposed loan will be the first to lMexico in FY76. In addition, we plan
to present to the Executive Directors for consideration during this fiscal
year loans for the railways, ar, agricultural credit program, and a DFC
project intended mainly for export-oriented industries.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEERAGE SECTOR
Physical Environment
25.       MTexico is a country with special limiEtations on its water
resources endowment, where competing claims for electric energy,
irrigation or water supply for urban use pose growing problems of
raQional use.  This is largely the result of the country's geographic
resource inbalance.  Some 85 percent of the surface water resources are
below 500 meters of elevation, while 75 percent of the country's population,
and 80 percent of its industrial output are located above that elevation.
As a result, only 5 percent of surface water is in areas servicing 50
percent of the population, and the rugged configuration of the terrain
makes long distance transportation of water expensive.  This is particularly
true in the central plateau, where the country's two principal ci,ies
- Mexico City, and Guadalajara - as well as te;n cities ranging from o0,000



- 9 -
to 500,000 inhabitants each are located. Likewise, large population
centers such as Monterrey, Tijuana and Mexicali are nearing exhaustion of
water resources in their vicinity. The problem is further compounded by
3.4 percent population growth a year, and an even more rapid (5.6 percent
per year) urbanization process which poses a heavy strain on public
services, in particular on those with severe institutional constraints,
such as water supply (see below).
26.       The social implications of this situation are predictable.   In
the rural areas, many low-income families have traditionally depended on
small lots of unirrigated lands where rainfall has been generally uneven,
while higher income farmers have had access to large irrigation schemes
that enabled them to operate a highly efficient agricultural base. In
urban areas similarly, while coverage of water supply systems has improved
over the years, the facilities have been largely based on individual house
connections in the affluent and middle-class neighborhoods, leaving the
poor in the periphery of cities largely unserved. It is clear that as
water demand rises, water management will increasingly become a key
dimension of social and economic policy.
Institutional Framework
27.       In response to this situation, the 1972 Federal Wiater Law seeks
to rationalize water management by defining property rights and establishing
water use priorities. The Ministry of Hydraulic Resources (SRH) has been
authorized to plan, execute and operate all water projects in which there
is public participation. As to the countryside, the law imposes certain
limitations on farm sizes in new irrigation districts, in order to achieve
a more equitable distribution of the benefits of public irrigation
projects.  Specifically, in irrigation, significant progress has been
achieved in building the necessary infrastructure and establishing a basis
for improved water management in tenms of economic efficiency and social
equity. This aspect was dealt with in my report to you on the Seventh
Irrigation Project (Rio Bravo/Bajo San Juan - Report No. P-1619-NJE of
April 28, 1975).  On the urban side, little headway has been noted so far,
as no overall sector strategy has been evolved. To provide the basis for
a water management strategy, a National Hydraulic Plan (PNH) has been
recently campleted.  Financed by the United Nations Development Programme
with the Bank as executing agency, this extensive stuty was designed to
formulate a water development program consisting of specific projects and
programs for implementation during 1975-1990, and facilitate adoption of
policy decisions concerning water use and development. Concurrently, the
World Health Organization and the Bank jointly undertook a sector survey
to identify the problem areas and suggest possible solutions, with their
investment and financing implications in the water supply and sewerage
sector.  Both studies are currently under review by the Mlexican authorities
jointly with the Bank in order to assess future policy and investment
implications, and the institutional arrangements which will be necessanr
to carry them out.



- L 0 -
28.      Various Federal, State ard local agencies participate in water
supply and sewerage investments ir Mexico. While Federal agencies plan,
design and construct most of the works, 'ocal or State boards normally
operate the system. Financing of these works has been provided normally
on a grant basis by the Federal Government, or as loans through BNOSP (a
financial agent of the Government which channels funds to public sanitation,
housinr, urban development and transportation works).   SRH has been active
in planning, project preparation anid construction of water supply and
sewerage systems in communities of over 2,500 inhabitants. In practice,
however, SRH has been active only in about 500 to 600 out of a total
of some 2,200 such localities. Similarly the Ministry of Health, which
is responsible for rural, water supply (i.e., for communities with a
population of less than 2,500 inhabitants) is not covering all communities
assigned to it. Furthermore, there have been increasing problems in the
quality of service, as well as in the system's operation and maintenance.
As a consequence, Mexico's population suffers a relatively high incidence
of water-borne diseases, and the death rate among children under one year
of age, due to these infections, is nearly 70 times that of the United States.
Current Situation and Future Implications
29.      In terms of coverage provided, 70 percent of the urban population
in Mexico is served withl water (mainly through housc connections) and
40 percent by sewerage systems. In the rural areas, about 20 percent of
the population is estimated to be served through public systems, mostly
in the form of standpipes, and only 3 percent have sewer facilities,
mainly latrines. While these levels of service compare favorably with
many Latin American countries, Mexico is still far from the goals set at
the Special Meeting of the Ministers of Health of the Americas in
Santiago in 1972,j in particular when investment implications and
competing claims on water as well as fiscal resources are taken into
account0 Only to keep the percentage of the population served from
declining in the future would involve an investment level of about US$125
million per year (in 1975 prices) over the 1976-80 period, with more than
80 percent being allocated to the larger cities. To meet the Santiago goals,
more than US$250 million (in 1975 prices) would be needed on average each
year during the 1976-80 period0 Such c. program and level of coverage is
possible only if (i) average sector revenues are increased substantially
(about 50 percent in real terms) so as to be sufficient to cover operating
and capital costs; (ii) institutional changes are carried out to enable
the public sector to execuite this larger volume of works; and (iii) the
efficiency of water supply systems is improved and the design of projects
properly scaled to the requirements of the population to realize some
savings in investments.
30.      As to the first aspect, largely due to the belief that water is
a social good, tariffs have been increased infrequently (usually when new
1/  The Ministers of Heialth of Latin America and the Caribbean agreed to
serve 80 percent of the -rban and 50 percent of the rural population
with water, and 50 percent of the urban and 30 percent of the rural
population with sewerage or latrines by 1980.



- 11 -
capital expenditures have been envisaged) with the result that the water
supply sector has been poorly financed and heavily dependent on Federal
budgetary resources. Increasing shortages of funds, due mainly to high
priority competing claims from other sectors, have further underlined the
inadequacy of this method of financing. While many water systems at
present barely recover a portion of operation and maintenance expenses,
there are some cases where local municipal systems divert water revenues
to other urban public works, thus contributing to the poor quality of
services. To improve this situation, investment financing policies have
to be significantly modified by introducing mechanisms to support projects
that will generate sufficient internal cash through tariffs and land
betterment levies to pay for the operation, maintenance and debt
services of the water supply and sewerage systems, and ensure that the
funds so generated remain in the sector to progressively make the sector
less dependent on budgetary allocations. This should also enable the
higher income areas to support, through tariffs, part of the water
supply and sewerage investments for the poorer communities.
31 e      As to institutionss the water supply and sewerage sector has
had a fragmented setup, with unclear division of responsibilities in
particular between Federal and local authorities, and an over-centralized
organization of SRH in Mexico City. This has led to weak local management
of water supply system which, in turn, has compound3d the problems
referred to above, leading to costly water supply systems. Furthermore,
the limited exposure of SRH staff to project selection, in particular the
techniques of sound financial and economic analysis in making such
selection, has also contributed to the design of systems which significantly
exceeded the physical requirements and financial constraints of local
communities. On the other hands it should be mentioned that the local
boards that display higher operating performance are those that include
SRH representation.  It is beccming, however, increasingly difficult for
SRH to be appropriately represented on a nation-wide basis due to the
great number of systems involved and its limited number of technical
staff. Future works will therefore depend on the setting up of appropriate
programs to strengthen local boards in the administration of their systems,
upgrading of their managerial skills, and the provision of country-wide
guidelines for project preparation and admbinistration.
32.       Finally, as to the possibility of reducing some of the future
investment, there seems to be significant room for secondary use of water
resources in industry and other urban activities. At present, there is
little that is being done on water treatment and pollution control, which
would permit reuse of the scarce water resources. As the supply of water
to urban centers from ever distant places becomes increasingly expensive,
pollution control investments will become more urgent. Furthermore, the
existence of unaccounted-for water ranging from 20 to 60 percent suggests
that there is significant room for improving utilization through better
leaks and losses control programs, metering plans, etc. Such programs
still need to be studied and could postpone the need for some investments.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The Government has requested a Bank loan to help finance water
supply and sewerage programs in medium size cities in various parts of
the country. The proposal was appraised by the Bank mission that visited
Mexico in June 1975. A report entitled "Appraisal of the Medium Size Cities
Water Supply and Sewerage Project" No. 885a-ME dated November 26, 1975, is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and project
summary is presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington
from November 10 to 17, 1975. The Mexican delegation was headed by
Lic. L-uis R. Garcia, Manager of the Economic Development Department of BNOSP.
34.       While the request for the proposed loan was for a sector
program, discussions with the Government led to a change towards financing
of works in specific cities, and setting up institutional changes and
financial arrangements which would enable the Government and the Bank to
gradually enter into sector program financing in the future.
Objectives and Project Description
35.       In the light of the three problem areas described above, the
proposed project is designed to lead to: (i) the establishment of an
appropriate organizational setup within SI? to improve project preparation,
design, construction and operation activities; (ii) the establishment of
a suitable financial mechanism to channel and recuperate funds for works
to be undertaken in the sector; (iii) the setting of adequate guidelines,
norms and procedures to monitor water supply and sewerage operations at
the local level, and the provision of technical assistance and sector
studies that would help improve the economic use of water in Mexico; and
(iv) the provision of water supply and sewerage facilities in certain
urban communities, at minimum costs, which could be replicated in other
parts of the country.
36.       To this end, the project consists of:
(i)  in eight selected cities, the extension of water supply
services to new users and improvement to existing customers,
the installation in some cases of sewerage services, the
installation of meters on unmetered sources, repair of
meters, and leaks detection programs;
(ii)  a training program to upgrade SRH and local communities
personnel connected with the project in operational,
administrative and financial matters.



- 13 -
37.       In view of the limited number of projects that could meet
the agreed technical, financial and economic selection criteria, the
eight cities that have been chosen for the project have been selected
on the basis of availability of suitable proposals. All the cities to
be benefitted by the project (in particular Mexicali and Reynosa) rank
low in most economic welfare indicators available in Mexico. Four of
the eight towns are located in areas sufficiently close to the Guadalajara-
Mexico City area, to be under the influence of the core area of the
country. Of these, Morelia could become an important decongestion
center for the big cities, and Tampico a key port outlet for the central
and north-eastern areas of the country. In all, some 600,000 additional
inhabitants will be served with water supply, more than 650,000 people
will have new sewerage discharge installations, and those connected
to the existing systems will be benefitted through improved water
supply and sewerage services.
38.       As to the training programs, the proposal envisions in-service
and academic teaching for operational and administrative staff associated
with the project, both at the SRH and local water board levels, While
this approach will assure more immediate results and improve the
performance in the administration of the Bank-financed project, it is
hoped that this experience can be later on replicated elsewhere.
Furthermore, the Government agreed during negotiations to prepare by
December 31, 1977, a nation-wide training program, which will be forwarded
to the Bank for comments on its design and implications for implementation
(Sec. 3.07 Guarantee Agreement). SRH and the Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO) are alreacd undertaking a number of training programs,
and it is expected that PAHO will also assist the Government in preparing
the integrated sector training plan.
39.       In view of Mexico's growing need to determine the prospects and
implications of water treatment for industrial and other uses, the
Government has carried out over the last two years a number of studies on
the dimensions of the water pollution problem, on standards of maximum
acceptable levels of water pollution, and on general measures to discourage
unacceptable levels of pollution. The Government undertook to carry out
more detailed feasibility studies for the control of pollution in areas to
be determined by the Government in agreement with the Bank, thereby
establishing specific investment requirements to permit adequate
secondary use of water. These studies will be carried out by SRH,
with necessary support from the Ministry of Health and the National
liydraulic Plan. Also, BNOSP will participate in these studies, to build
up the necessary know-how to appraise subsequent individual pollution
control projects for future financing. The Government also undertook to
carry out studies on water metering with a view to controlling
significant leaks and losses, and reducing the quantity of unaccounted for
water in the systems operated by SRHO The Government also agreed that



the Bank shall be affcrded a reasonable oppr-t.unity for excha-ginc
views on the terms of reference for thlese studies and on their concIUs4ons
tnd recommendations (Sec. 3.11 Cuarantee Agreement).
Institutional Arrangements
40.       To overcome the above mentioned limitations in project
preparation and implementation, the Government agreed to the establishment
of a project unit. This unit, as technical agent for the project, will
coordinate and monitor preparation, appraisal, design and execution of
the sub-projects to be financed under the Bank loan and to be executed
by the different departraents of SRH. The unit is headed by a full-time
and experienced engineer, is adequately st.affed and organized, and is
directly responsible to the Minister of Hydraulic Resources. The
Government undertook to maintain the urnt and to assign suitably qualified
staff in adequate numbers to such unit at all times (Sec0 3.05 Guarantee
Agreement).  This unit could, at a later stage, ccnstitute the core arou.nd
which the water supply and sewerage sector could be reorganized. The unit
constitutes, however, a temporary measure to handle this and related
projects while the Government is considering the PAHO/IBRD sector study
and the National Hydraulic Plan for possible reor-anization of the sector.
In order to streamline future project preparation at various levels within
SRH, the Government has agreed to prepare within six months after loan
signature guidelines for project preparation, design and appraisal, and
to put them into effect within 12 months after the agreement, after
affording the Bank a. reasonable opportunity to exchange views on such
guidelines (Sec. 3.04 Guarantee Agreement).
41.       In order to assure an adequate financial setup for this and
future projects, an investment fund has been formally established in BNOSP,
which will administer the day-to-day matters of the fund. BNOSP has
extensive experience in financing public and social works at the Federal,
State and Municipal levels, 5nd is on the whole an efficiently-run entity.
The fund's Board wil1 be headed by the Minister of Hydraulic Resources,
and will be composed of representatives of the Ministries of Finance
and the Presidency and BNOSP.    The fund will receive an equity contribution
from budgetary resources (US$60 mLillion equivalent), and the proceeds cf the
proposed loan (US$hO million). The foreign exchamge risk will be carried
by Government under subsidiary arrangements with BNOSP. The fund
would start operations with budgetary resources, and would be replenished
by reimbursements from the Bank loan, after sub-loans have been made to the
local communities from the Government contribution to the fund. The fund
would relend to individual water indertakings for up to the entirety of the
investment cost of these projects, and will develop as a major lending
mechanism for the sector. Unider this arrangement tihere would be separate
subloan agreements with each local water supply board, contractual
arrangements with the corresponding municipalities regarding water supply
and sewerage charges, and guarantee agreements with each of the State
Governments concerned.  Use would be made of provisions in the subloan and



- 15 -
guarantee agreements to improve mnnagement practices at the local level,
in specifying the responsibilities of the Federal, State and local authorities
in matters of project implementation and operation, in particular the tests
of financial performance expected from the water supply systems, the
specific measures required for water management improvements, and repayment
obligations. As to the water management improvements, the sub-projects
envision an intensive leak and loss control program, which could serve as
a basis for similar undertakings in other water supply projects in Mexico.
Regarding the repayment obligations, all funds (both from the Bank as
well as Government counterpart contributions) will be repaid in local
currency by the local water supply authority in around 18 years, including
a period of grace equivalent to the construction period (about 3 years),
at 9 percent interest (Schedule 5, para B of Loan Agreement)0
Cost, Financing and Repayment
42.       Project costs, including interest during construction, are
estimated to be the equivalent of US$100 million, including 15 percent
of physical contingencies and 20 percent for price escalation. All the
sub-projects would be financed by loans from the investment fund, with
the proposed Bank loan providing the equivalent of the foreign exchange
component of the project.  The local authorities benefitting from the
project will be required to set their charges at a level sufficient to
cover from the third calendar year onwards at least (i) all operating
expenses; (ii) increases in working capital and the financing of minor
investments; and (iii) the higher of either interest and debt repayments
on the subloans or the annual depreciation charge on revalued fixed assets.
In the first two calendar years after the date of the subloan agreement,
charges for the water supply and sewerage system shall gradually reach the
above level as follows: (i) in the first calendar year after the date of
the corresponding agreement, at a level at least equal to the level of
present charges plus one third of the difference between the level of
the present charges and that required in the items (i), (ii), and (iii)
of the third calendar year, and (2) in the second calendar year thereafter,
at a level at least equal to the level of present charges plus two thirds
of such difference (Schedule 5, para D). This would constitute a major
departure from the prevailing situation in Mexico, where water supply and
sewerage investments are traditionally not recovered and operation and
maintenance costs only partially so. The fact that all project works would
now be financed through debt will encourage local organizations to generate
additional resources to recuperate the investments, either through water
charges, in the case of water supply facilities, or connection charges and
land betterment levies in the case of sewerage investments. Water charges
in the eight project cities will, in fact, have to increase from some
60 to 470 percent once the project investments are fully in operation.



- 16 -
43.       In order to bring previous financing arrangements lartial1y
in line with the financing procedures proposed for this project, tihe
Government intends that the past debt of local communities to the Federal
Government in respect of investments made for water and sewerage be
,ecovered at its historical value.  The Government undertook to exercise
its best efforts to cause certain water supply systems existing in
some cities, mostly those catering to large public enterprises and t.eir
employees, to be incorporated into those of the local organizations
(Sec. 3.10 Guarantee Agreement). Such extension of Jurisdiction of the
local organizations over these systems would be a step towards the
unification of water supply systems at the local level in Mexico, and
towards the establishment of the payment of fees to the local organizations
for the water that large organizations are using, thereby limiting the
tariff increases that would be otherwise required from general consumers
to meet the financial tests outlined above.
Procurement and Disbursements
44.       SRH would follow international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement for most contracts
for civil works, equipment and materials. Mexican suppliers of equipment
and materials would be eligible for preference equal to the amount of
custom duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for importation or 15 percent, whichever is the lower. In
order to facilitate the participation of international contractors,
civil works would be grouped, insofar as possible, into contracts having
a minimum value of US$1.6 million and materials and equipment with a
minimum value of US$150,000. Invitations to bid for civil works estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of US$1.6 million and more than the
equivalent of US$80,004 and for materials and equipment estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of US$150,000 and more than the equivalent
of US$50,000, shall be advertised locally in accordance with the normal
practices of the Government, which do not preclude bidding by foreign
contractors or suppliers. Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$80,000 or less may be procured (i) in accordance with the
Guarantor's ordinary procurement procedures; and (ii) through force
account in special cases justified to the satisfaction of the Bank;
provided that the aggregate cost of such works shall not exceed the
equivalent of US$1.2 million. Materials and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$50,000 or less, may be procured on the basis of
price quotations obtained from not less than three suppliers following
the Guarantor's usual procedures, provided that the aggregate cost of
such procurement shall not exceed the equivalent of US$0.8 million. The
project unit within SRH will manage the bidding process for the project.
145       The Bank would disburse the loan against 40 percent of expenditures
made and financed by disbursemn.ets out of sub-loans and 40 percent of the
cost of the training programs - representing the estimated averag- -reign
exchange component of these items.



- 17 -
Project Justification
h6.       The incremental financial rate of return on the water supply
investments of the proposed project is in the range of 0.7 to 10.7 percent,
with six out of the eight sub-projects having a rate of return of 3 to
.5 percent. Additional revenues received by the local authorities from
existing consumers are however not included in the incremental financial
rate of return, although those consumers will benefit from improved service
and water quality. To that extent the incremental financial rate of return
is understated. Furthermore, the incremental financial rate of return
substantially understates the economic benefits to be derived from the
project; water charges have been very low and, despite the sharp increases
required under the project, they will not fully reflect economic returns
to consumers. The incremental returns are also less than the expected
economic rates of return, as no value has been computed for benefits to the
communities' environment and improvements in living conditions and in
general health standards due to improved water and sewerage services.
Likewise, no calculation has been made of additional public revenues which
might accrue from higher land taxes. Perhaps more important is the proposed
introduction of major changes in investment and financial policies referred
to above, and the provision of a basis for institutional reform in the
water supply and sewerage sector. It is expected that the sector investment
fund will become in the future one of the main sources of financing and
agent of sector reform, which will help in generating resources for further
investment and in fostering the introduction of financial discipline in
the water supply and sewerage system. Finally, the establishment of
the project unit in SRH could provide the core around which to build an
organizational reform of the sector at the national level.
47.       From a social point of view, the project will be basically oriented
towards the periphery of the cities, which are at present unserved; this
will largely benefit the lower income groups whose access to water supply is
at present limited. Improved water supply and sewerage services will help
contro) water-borne diseases and, over time, beneficially affect the productivity
and incomes of the poor. The systems will be so designed that the services
can be provided at costs that they can afford to pay.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos, S.A. and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the United Mexican States and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the draft
loan and guarantee agreements ,f special interest are referred to in
paragraphs 38, 40, 41 and 43 of this Report.
L90       In the past, loan agreements with Mexico had been channeled
through Nacional Financiera, S.A. Pursuant to the Organic Law of Banco



Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A., as amended by a
Congressional Decree on Decenber 19, 1966, and a Congressional Decree
of December 31, 1973, the Banco lUacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.A. has been given the same powers Nacional Financiera, S.A. has to
borrow from the Bank and thus to serve, for such purposes, as financial
agent of the Government.
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECO I-ENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. IUcNamara
President
Attachments
December   4, 1975



Annex I
Pgep 1 of hpegas
ONUINTR DATA - MMTICO
ARIA                                                POPULATION                                    ORNUITY
1,97?,51.7 be2                                       _57.775   Ullon (.id-1972)
Per baDof ...eble lend
SDCIAL INOIIATORS
Reference Coun,tries
190    1970WM                         17
GE? MR CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) 11                                 475            750              530           w 80        1,210 L
DEMOCORAPHIC
N-MUrrth6 ret. (Par thousand)                                     1.6            1.5 /p38 /b.                   30            20
C-ode deeth ret. (per thoweed)                                    11              9 ~j10 LA..s                   9             8
Infect scrt.lity ret. (par thcusand live birth.)76/.c                             1              10792
Life espeotency ot birth (Deere)                 58             65 /a            61 /b         62 /f         70
DroetZped-ctl.s    t                                           3.2            3.1 /b           2.622                       14
P-N  L                                       3.2           ~~~~3.5   ~       2.9           23             .
Populottec g-cth ret. - .rbec/hh                                                                   5 
Age strutL-    (paret)
0-11b                                                         U.146 a.b                       12            39            28
15-1                                                            5250                            53/          563
65 ed ove                                                        1.            1                 5/           6              9
Age dependency ratio/.                                           0 0.9/                                        0.8          0.6
Eocic dependeny rATio /4j                                    9.7                             DS/p          .11./
Urb.c pcpul.ttcn Os percent of itel1                              51 /h          60 /h            56 /3         7 /.          19 c.
Penily ple-ing,   Ko. of.eccPtern rosultiv    (thoou.            ...250
N.. o. ..e.e (9 of aerried ece).                              .1.6
Tete=lbor forc     (thousends)                                11,300         13,0(00          29,600 /       3,000 /E     12,700 /P
Per-nctoge nsplcyed to e9rilcut.r.                              511.0                           Lb.19                       26/03
Per I_cege uneployed                                           4.1                               2             5 
Peroct o    cetTicoal jooercIe         y   gheet 5%                29 /.          36 /p.,.          3/            0/3
Percent of n3i3l10c          eeie     yhget2%                      9re           6.~/      ~      6  3n          0
Percent of notio-nal  nocose Ireceived by hiceest 20%              1.7,/,
Percent of vetionol inooe received by loenet 10%                  10L,p          1                               5 I~  3/.
MSiTRIBUTION OF LAND OWURHRm{P
I owned by top 10% of ccr
% cend by suaellet 10% of cnr
PPopletio  per P., -ing person                                 2,650 1        1,50331 o                      5,30/         130
Populetton per hoepitel bed                     ~~590 /         930              260           250           ?20
Per -ePit: -elorie oppl.y cc    of reqoiresete/                  102  so        110              109           101           107
Per cePite protein sopply. total (gross per deyF/6                65  so~        65               61            71            01
Of    h,6106e ine  end poise                                  29 /           28               39            32            hi If
Death ret. 1-4 . er /7                                             I1 i          21.3/                                      09
1A    R ~d A  prtoery school enrol1e-t retio                       81            101. /.d         130 /4p       119 Ice.d      03
Adjusted    secondry eohool eno11-n      ratio                     9             23               27 3    j     29           19
leers Of n.obolnlg Provided, first end seond leve.l               12             12               13            02            12
Vocoti-nel enroliset es % of ee.sh         ol nollneot            21,2149,                        1             33            20
Adult literacy r.ts%                                              62B 1                           65/3          909g& 9fg
rl'srge  NO. of Persons per cone (.r60n)                         2 6 /p02a/j                      .013                 o
Percent of woupied units olthsut piped wet-r                     68 ~0          612 43jI         670 19~p      ..    :k
Ac.... to electricity (cs % of total popul.tion)                 ..59                             471.          85 /j9,
Percent of furel Pepasetion cooet.d to el1-trinity               .              .                  8L1an.       30 /jb
LaoM       I-    Per 1000 popuIation                              95            301AI             61 /0        119 I         210 L.
P. seegecare; per l00    pnpul.tion                               1L             28 7.            29 Z           9E             ~ /
3iectric poe    consumption (kwh p.c.)                           331 6                           5../            907       191.'
Newsprint cosuption p-c kg per yssr                              2.8            622.53                         80'~        1,4
Hoten   Figore. refer either to the lntent period. n    tor           " aO't of osrsatltspsr-t-r, boywih,cd
the lotnat yeorn.   Lateet periods refer In principle to              dietribctc    by age nodse   of cetconal pp..la.tioos
the Yee". 1956-60 or 1966-70, the latent yeare In pri.-           L6. ProtIn sacndards (-eq.ireanet) for all... trcires as entab-
ciple to 1960 end 1970.                                               linhed by USDA Enononlo Reoearh Service provide for c ninino
ZI  The Per Cepitn loP eetleatn in   t acket prI-r for                elicn-     of 60 gr-s of tote1 protein per day, Wm 20 preas of
Yvns othv- then 1960,.onlcui.td by the nose-erernlc               ani-sand.c  Pclse proti., of ehich 10 gres.sehould be eniaa
t.chnlque .s the 1972 World Bank Atlen.                           protein.  Th"se stadrd. are aossohet iceer then those of 75
/2 Averngn .sber of deughters per oce      of reproducti-e            grass of total Protein end 23 gross of enisa    protein   ao  n
age.                                                              aesrege for the word, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food
12Populotion groth mate. or    for the decndes ending I.            Survey.
1960 end 1970.                                                    So. stdi.. h-v suggested inst cr.de death rtets of children
/   tio of population -nder 15 and 65 and -oer to pepuol-           egee I through 1. soy be c.ad seafirst approntetion Inden of
tien of ages 15-61 for age depedency ratio and tn labor            ecloPtritgn.   1l    of  -    pdg       p   to.f.h.l          .
fore. of -age  15-61. for aenonaic dependency ratio.           /8Pretg         ooldo        ciepnigpplto              fsho      g
P~ AO reference standards reprenet pbyaiological re                  co defined for  eob wunctry.
qulreannie for oorncl activity cod haalt~h, taking
IA   0972;    A   1965-70;    /3.  REtletel    /d  19591   /a   19%9,..d    If~ 1969-70;   ag   1960-72,    /h  localities of 2.500
or ens';    /I, Urban end suburban   -aw. of a4~.nIstreti,..sWr. OF -uniipalltiee end distrintel           /jLPopulated centere
which h"av  difidte urban    haractarietica contributed h7 cars'tie   poblic adna*eulclpal sr-ic.es     /k   locaitIes of
10,00  or acre inhabittani;     /I  Ratio of population under 15 and 60 and over tn those in age group 15-59;        /a  15-59
Years itL     60 years end over;    /1   Population under 15 and 60 and ever;     /E  19711    /a  Be.ed on 1.3 Percent eaqsle
tabulation of   esaus returne, ecludIng Indian Jungle population;       Z    1963;   /a  Houeehelde;    A    19691   Lsu 1968,
1961, 1        ov.evsent only;     /x  babes on. the register, not all wr6i~ing in the cowts7;       IL  Hospital persounel;
1962,   /3-   1961-62;   /a3    1973;  /3_. Regitered only;      /3d  Om"e enzolis-t ehich includes ovecege studentsj
The net enrollseot ratios I. 1971 were 619 end 18% fsr baic and asecondary education, respectively;         lgf   Definition
-Jonbo;    /3g   15 Yeare and over;    /.h   Data refer to lIvIng quartmre      /xi~ 1960-62k    JAI Data refar tn housing
units;    /3k  Det.refer tn houhoblds;       /jj~ Zetiat.. ba.ed on se.eple tabulation of cenus retura; det. refer to
doeltogse;    /p   .nsid. or   utis1d.;  /p    InclUdig ese.-peeoeant dseelig.ina      /     inside only.
S pain has bee    wele-ted as en objective country baneuee ies per capita mocose to higher then N.alco, end beonce        both
countries hav   in oo-o the isprtanc. of touries,aend the Influance of nearty richer coutrie..
R) April 21., 1975



ANNE  I 
Papa 2 of 4
MEXI100: fEoneie Deveopmen.t Data Sheet
Actual                   Pr-l.              ProJ-ctd                  1960     1965    1970    1975     1980
1960       1965        1970        1924        1975       1980        1915      1965     1970    1975    1910    1985     1960    1970    1980
_______________________________3-Year Autrages at 1967-69 Price            & RE-hango Rt-t                        Aveag   ActualI Crowd, fctA . of tDT
C,one D-etie P-od-et                11,663.9   23,312.2   31,763.9     39,418.9    40,995.7   51,324.2    695329.0      7.3     6.6     5.9     4.6     6.2    9        00.0 1f  9%.
Cra,,fts  ro  Tem  afTrade o            16.3     - 42.9S.j      2.7     -35ff 1        20.1      112.8       183.9       -      -                -      10 3   901       -
Iron  DoetieOun                     15,680.2   22,269.3   38,766.6    139,062.8    40,975.6   51,437.0   69,513.?       7.3     6.7     5.9     4.7      6.2   f01  00.0       100.0
Imporc  heel, Nf)                    18,22.3    2,125.9    3,083.2      3,074.5     3,990.5    4,712.3     7,405.1      3.1     7.2     2.1     3.4     9.9     11.6     9.8     9.2
Escor  fleor    ea_aite)             1,679.3   -1.979.0   ~656i,2      3,1.        2u926±9    4.452.,2    7,,231m.5    3.3     6.1    2.i.tf  ,,..     11.7   -10*7     8,6     8.7
Rtnouree Cap                           143.0      146.0      347.0        859.9     1,063.6      260.1     - 326.8      0.5    10.0    75.1     5.s      -         9     1.1     0.5
C--soptlon                          12,906.6   12,807.6   25,052.3     12,157.2    33,963.1   41,642.9    54,974.3,     6.6     7.1     6.3     4.3     5.6     82.3    891.4   81.3
lovoaccest                 ~~~~~~~~2,916.6  4,611.6  6,011.3   7,765.5     0,076.1    9,856.2   14,212.6       9.6     5.7     5.1     4.1     7.6    88.6     9 .8    19.7
Doccaclo savings           ~~~~~~2,773.6  4,464.7  5,234.3     6,905.5     7,012.5    9,594.2   14,539.4      80.0    -5.8     4.1     6.5     8.7     17.7    10.6    1.
l    iat-va  Savings                 2,703.8    4.281,8     5,289.4     6,057.7     6,267.8    8,565.0    13,417.1      9.6     4.3     3.5     6.4      9.4    17.2    17.2    16.7
=T.dct Goods and NFS                                       An-aa1 Dont.   torr-et Pri-c                                                                           Aa. o f Total
Food                                    17.6       25.4       91.8        788.8       580.0      290.0      442.3       7.6    29.3    40.4   -16.6     8.2      1.21    2.8     2.7
Pecc-l-a and P-odoens                   34.0       23.9       42.8        362.0        78.0        -          -         6.8    12.4    00.9     -        -       2.2     1.3     m
OterCods                            917.6    1,236.0    1,117.6      4,884.9     5,799.0    9,940.8   22,702.2       6.8    12.4    21.7    11.4    17.4    59.5     67.3    72.4
Magufee-ared Service                   972.3      792.3      946.3      1,701.2     1,927.0    3,481.4     7,907.9      6.2     3.6    15.3    12.6     86.6    37.1    28.6    25.4
Total Ioporta                        1, 541.7   2,077.6     3,296.5     7,6446.1    8,247.0    13,720.2   32,847.4      6.2     9.     20.3    10.6     17.1   ICD.0   100.0   1023.0
Oeleetvd AgrieoIrrl    Cooda.I         384,5      448.3       338.6       609.3       556.8     1,325      2,555.3      :2.7   -52      9.6    28.7     13.7    22.4    12.3    10,6
Pe Iela   sd    rdut                    28,6       48.1        30.4       124,2       588.0     1,26.1     2,037.5     24.      C.9    67,1    1'5.5    14.7     8.5     1.4     7,9
Selected niesroln             ~~~~   ~~92.3  77.9    91.5       212.0       118.8       284.1      432,0     -4.      33       .0     14.2    15.1     6.8     3.3      17
Macofactures                 ~~~~~~    ~~181.5  206.8  358.4  1,712.2      1,108.8    3,509.2   11,247.0     15.3    10 .6   26.9     24.3    26.3     1.5     13.1    27 .0
ete Tod                            1263       39,         7.          542         650        918       ,278       17.3      7.6     2.2     7.2     7.8    13.1     20.      7.
Nou-Fa-to  Serice                       725       792.3     1,397.7     3,030.9     3,124.3     5,923.2   13912.        6.3    1.       73      1,       86     4.       09     4.
Total tc.port                        1,318,9     1,954,4    2,745,3     5,950.6     6,065.5    12,962.9   31,477.7      7.5     7.1     17.3    06.3    19.4   100,.0  188.0    100.0
Trade Icdice                                                   A-eroe 1967-69 - 188
c.p-rt Priee Id-c                       83.710     92,77      809.55      176.94      206.50      298.21     402.03     2.2     2.6    14.4      ;7.     6.9 
-oor Prt-Iceldec                       88.72      97.70     105.20      191.39       207.92     290.16     487,12      3.9     1.1    14,6     7.0     7,2
Ta-c  ef Trade                         102.96      94,96      1000.25      89,43       99.31      102.59     182.44    -1.6     1.1    -02      0.7      -
Epcrt Volume-                           69.80      06.90      109.61      147.8f      129.24      190.30     331.81     4.5     9.0      3.3    8.0     81.7
Vo1ug Added by Secto                          A-Ioa Data at 1m967-69 Prices 4 uE-hege Rate-
PrIcer                               2,760,2    3,407,6     41,25.1        ..           .,         ,,         ,.        4,4     3.4     .                 .     17,3    83.0     -
S,-odary                             4,353.2    6,717,2    10,415,5        ..           ..                              9,1     9,2      ,       .       ..     27.6    33.5     -
Te-fesy    /8,659.'9                            82,115,0o  16,642.2                                                     7.      6.0      . .      .      .      5 4.9    53.5    -
Total (C?                           1,2.       22498      3081.            .                                  .         72      7.0     5.9     4.7     6,2    100.0   102.7   100.8
Pu.blic Secto  Fic-e-  fC-eslid-td PublIc letter)                                                                                                                 At 7of Totl
Total Recipt                            .,      2,802,0     4,026,4     4,590,1      5,607.3    8,835,4   12,765.1      ..      6.9     6,0      9.3l    7.6   120.0    100.0   109 .0
forrent Eupendicue -                            2,397.5     2,185.0     3,983.0     4,083.      9,517.5    9,455.6      ,.      5.9     8.9      25     11,4    ..      83,7     62.5
fe_o_re_for o-oste_t                   .,785.8                                        765.0     3,369,1    5,269,7              I , 117  -1.1   34.5     9.4    .       16.0     30.2
lv-"ccg.                               .        1485.8      1,766.1     2,844.0     3,469,4    3,571.0     5,175.0      .       3.5    14.9      .       7.7    . .     516     40.5
Defci                                           1,088.3       924.7      ,2.         2,704.4      209.9    - 94.7       ,,      -6     23.9    -03       -      ..      3.         .
Publit Euce-ditorn
(As Total Pob.E.Cp.
Pdactco                                            1 3 1/     12)2/      D. i. ..                          .        DtIso      Public Sector            ,XcA-1A    -
Other SocialleS--.                                 16         17)                                 ,          ,,At 1967-69 P 4 ER                                     AI 7, of T-tel
Agricultue-                                         5          8          ..           ..         .                                             1965-73   1924-Of   1965-73  1974-8f
Other Ecoaic les-             .                    36         31          .
AScIvo-d Ocher.                                    30         32          .            .          ..                  Ind-atry                    256        .,       37.4
Total                                   . .       10         109 0                                                    Agri.olt-r                  233                  I 1.
Transport 4 Cormom          485        ..       22,5
Snle-ted ledicatora                                          1960        1965         1970       1923       1980      S-ita1                      504        ..       24.9
(Calculated Pro ~3-ur averag     data)                       1965,       1970        1975        1980       1985      Adeicist-ation A lePf--      49        ..        2.4
Total                     2,017                180.8
A-erge OcOR                                                  2.59        3.16        3.04        4.24       3.20
Import Elescicity                                             .59        1,09        1,18       0.52        1.53
naroical National Savi9s fate                                 .24         .12         .20         .20        .27
Labor Fvrce and 3/                                                     Total Labor Poe--                                V.lue Added Per W-ekar (1967-69 Pricet 4 to. Rates)
Output poe corker                                   lo Muilli...           At 7. of Total       1960-i978                               7.fo Avroo
1960       1970         1960        1970     Groth Ra te               1960         1970         1960      1970         G-esth Rate
Agrlaltore,                                        5.4        5.1        10.2        39.2          -0.6                 518.2        789,2         3.2       33.0            4.
ed_tcr                                           2.1         3.0        19.6        23.1           3.5               2,073.0      3,471.8        148.      145.2            5.3
Servce   4/                                        3,-2       4.9        299.0       37 .17         4.2               2,706.0      32396.2        103.6     142.0            2.3
Tgta1                                             10.7       13.8       100.0       100.0           2.0               1,474.1      2,398,9        108.8     180.0            4.8
non applicable            I/  inuld-es d   ..erpa..cy
- ul   -.o.cgligible       3   1960 BasIs otimate Pre   C-.a.a figoro; 1970 tense    --Icslt
4/inlades a..II...ated                                                                                Latie America ad Coribbea    Pr-grac  I



ANNEX S
Page 3 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(ea-nate in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
A  c t e    a 1                 Prelim.                          P r e    I e c    t e d
1970       1971        1972       1973       1974        1975       1976        1977         1978        1979        1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (isel. NFS)            2,745.3     2,995.4    3,609.4    4,553.7     5,590.5    6,085.5    7,092.3      8,169.9     9,483.5    11,005.2    12,962.9
Imepats (in.c  NFS)            3,296.5     3,263.0    3,852.9    5,214.4     7,648.1    8,297.0    8,267.3     9,241.3     10,490.0    11,956.3    13,720.2
Reosorce Balance (M)           - 551.2     - 267.6    - 243.5    - 660.7    -1,697.6   -2,211.5   -1,175.0     -1,071.4    -1,006.5     - 951.1     - 757.3
interest (net)                  - 215.4    - 244.7    - 264.4    - 574.3     - 890.8   -1,235.9    -1,486.1    -1,702.4    -1,934.3    -2,185.5     -2,453.2
Direct l-veet-eet I-ceoe        - 479.6    - 493.7    - 593.3     - 433.6    - 576.0   - 585.0      - 643.5     - 707.9     - 801.3     - 907.1     -1,026.8
Workers. Reittances              122.7       111.5      126.7      140.4       158.1      162.5      183.6        204.2       228.7       256.1       286.9
CErnest Transfers (est)           55.5       57.4        64.3       74.5      109.0       110.0      125.0       140.0        156.8       175.6       196.7
Balance os Correct Accoant    -1,068.0     - 837.1    - 910.2    -1,453.7   -2,897.3   -3,759.9   -2,996.0     -3,137.5    -3,356.6    -3,612.0    -3,753.7
Priests Direct Investment        323.0      307.0       301.0      480.9       556.8      585.0      611.4       696.7        788.7       892.8     1,010.6
PFblic M&LT Leans
Disbarsements                  781.6       794.0    1,061.1     1,886.2    2,959.6    3,609.1    4,007.0      4,491.4     5,801.2     6,222.4      7,058.7
- Repaymentt                 - 474.8     - 496.0    - 590.8    - 779.0     - 545.4    - 854.3   -1.142.4     -1,548.6    -2 714.8    -3.059.2    -3,834.5
Net Disbursements                306.8         298.0    470.3    1,107.2     2,414.2    2,754.8    2,864.6      2,942.8     3,086.4     3,163.2      3,224.2
Capital Transactioas s.e.i.      540.2      432.1       343.9      595.2      642.0       600.0    - 100.0      - 200.0     - 300.0     - 300.0     - 300.0
Changes is net reserves        - 102.0     - 200.0    - 205.0    - 122.3     - 36.9       320.0    - 180.0      - 202.0     - 208.5     - 244.9     - 294.6
(- indicates increase)
A c t a    a  I         Prclim.
GRANTS AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                               DEBT ANS DEBT SERVICE            1971      1972     1973      1974
Official tracts & Grant-like      -           -          -          -
Pablir Debt Out. & Disbursed    3,516.6   4,010.2  5,117.4   7,531.6
Public MALT Lea.s
IBRD                           146.8        75.0      277.0      270.0       289.0    Interest on Public Debt           227.3     258.6    360.3     566.8
IDA                             -           -          -          -           -       Repa.yents on Public Debt         496.0     590.8    779.0    545.4
Other Multilateral              112.3       63.2       73.2       89.5       102.0    Total Public Debt Service          723.3    849.4   1.139.3  1,112.8
Covernments                     80.3        54.4       65.5      477.1       129.1    Other Debt Service (aet)           17.4       5.8     23.1     139.6
Suppliers                       69.7        77.3       65.3       55.6        61.4    Total Debt Service (net)          740.7     855.2  1,162.4   1,252.4
Financial Instituti...         434.4       638.7      627.5    1,829.2     1,979.3
Beads                           -           44.8       61.5        -          50.0    Burden as Export Earnings (.)
Public Leans n.e.i.             -           -                                223.0      Public Debt Srvice               23.3      22.7     24.3      18.2
Total Public M&LT Leans          843.4       953.4    1,170.0     2,271.4    2,833.8      Total Debt Service (TDS)         23.8      22.9     24.8     20.5
TDS + Direct Iseett. Income      39.7      38.8     34.0     29.9
Oat.tandise & Pishbrsed on Dee. 31. 1974
EXTERNAL DEBT                            million $                      Percent           Average Tesms cf Public Debt
Public M&LT Loans                                                                         Int. as 7. Prier Year DO8D        7.0       7.3      9.0     11.1
IBRD                                    973.2                         12.9              Amort. as % Prier Year 00&D      16.3      16.8     19.4     10.7
IDA                                      -                             -
Other Multilateral                      412.9                          5.5            IBRD Debt Oat. & Ditbursed
G-ver.ensts                             583.8                          7.8              "as % Total Public 00&D          18.8      18.0     15.8      12.9
Sappliers                               272.0                          3.6              "as % Public Debt Service         8.3       8.5      7.7       8.5
Financial Institutions                4,542.6                         60.3
Bends                                   531.4                          7.0            IDA Debt Oat. & Disbacsed
Public Debts e.e.i.                     215.7                          2.9            IDA as % Total Public DO&D
Total Public M&LT Debt                7,531.6                        100.0             "as     P public Debt Service
.st applicable
- nil or negligible



ANNEX I
Pagc 4 of 4
MEXICO: SOURCES AND SECTORAL ALLOCATION OF PUBLIC EXTEREAL DEBT CON1TRACTED 1969-1974
(Thousands of US Dollars)
Suppliers      Private      PubLicly      Other       It'erlaLio-s,l     Cover-a-tl:    Total      PercenL
Banks        Issued       Private     Org-anio-ions                                  of
Bonds                                                                   Total
Agriculturn. Forestrv and Fishinc              19,793       28,238          0           0            54 067               0         593,098      6.3
- Agriculture                                    0          15,000          0           0             23,100              0         38,100
- Agricultere, Livestock                         0          10,129          0           0            410,477              0        420,606
- Fishing                                      19,793        1,109          0           0               0                 0          20,902
- Ocean, Coastal Fishing                         0           2,000          0           0               0                 0           2,000
- Other                                          0            0             0           0            111,490              0        111,490
Mining and Qsarrying                            2,980      582,601        20,000      105,750           9               17,175      728,506       7.7
- Coal                                            513         0             0           0               0                 0            513
- Crude Petroleum, Gan                          2,395      400,680        20,000      105,750           0                2,828      531,653
- Metal Ore Mining                                 72      165,500          0           0               0               11,134      176,706
- Other                                          0          16,421          0           0               0                3,213       19,634
Ma-ofacturing                                 293.,742     611,63           0         226,897          9,000           232,731   137_,001        14.6
- Food Manufacturing                            2,396         0             0           0               0                1,317        3,713
- Testile Manufacturing                           115       24,614          0           0               0                  637       25,366
-Paper                                            254         0             0           0               0                  416          670
- Printing                                      1,338          416          0           0               0                 0           1,754
- Chemicals                                     6,707        6,300          0           0               0               12,054       25,061
- Fertilizers, Pesticides                        0          26,000          0           0               0                 0          26,000
- Petroleu- Refining; Gas; Oil                 83,701      232,034          0         90,897            0                6,719      413,351
- Plastics                                        136         0             0            0              0                 0             136
-Glass                                           0             255          0           0               0                 0             255
- Iron and Steel                                8,909      254,447          0          96,000           0              157,528      516,884
- Metal Machinery                                  16       26,866          0           0               0               34,490       61,372
- Metal Products NEL                             0             169          0           0               0                 0             169
- Noa-Electrical Machi-nry                     68,890         0             0            0              0                1,692       70,582
- Basic Metals                                   0          30,066          0            0              0                4,160       34,226
- Transport Equlipment                        121,114       10,368          0            0              0               11.018      142,500
- Other                                           166           96          0          40,000          9,000             2,700       51,962
Electric Power and Water Supply                49,359      809.297        30 000      222,428        353,823           203.146    1,668.053      17.7
- Electricity, Can, Water Produetion             0          65,000          0          65,000           0                 0         130,000
- Electricity, Cas, Steam                      49,359      744,297        30,000      157,428        250,000           203,146    1,434,230
- Water (Nos-Agric.)                             0            0             0            0           103,823              0         103,823
Tourism                                           0           0             0            0                                02  _      44.029       0.5
Trannport and Comnuicatiens                     75,396     511,087        32.486      106.350         279,312          199,915    1,204.546      12.8
- Transport, Storage and Cornunications          0          48,000          0          15,000         47,512              0         110,512
- Land Transport                               40,771      380,366        32,486       88,580         186,800          127,734      856,737
- Ocean, Coantal Transport                      1,468       13,304          0            0             20,000            2,709       37,481
- Air Transport                                 2,445       61,639          0           2,770          25,000           61,373      152,227
- C-nsu nicatiens - Other                      30,712        7,778          0            0              0                8,099       46,589
Financial and Monetary Institutions                 29   1,(99,518        27,322       55.000         45,000            21,591    1,248.460      13.2
- Financial anrirotions                            29      931,018        27,322       55,000         45,000            21,591    1,079,960
- Monetary Institutions                          0         168,500          0            0              0                 0         168,500
Other Sctror UOsc                                8,312     284,933          0          31,94          174,000            4.462      503_655       5.3
- Social Personal Services                       0         101,000          0            0              0                 0         101,000
- Public Administration (Defense)               4,620      155,413          0          31,948         174,000            4,393      370,374
- Education Administratios                      1,265       28,451          0            0              0                 0          29,716
- Medical and Dental                              873         0             0            0              0                 0             873
- Military                                      1,468         0             0            0              0                 0           1,468
- Radio, T.V.                                      86         0             0            0              0                 0              86
- Construction                                   0              69          0            0              0                   69          138
Sector Not Specified. Malticetror, etc.           509      381.379        96,856      101,202         118.161           31,914      730.021       7.7
- Sector Not Specified                            171       83,620          0          27,141           0               29,846      140,778
- Multisector                                    0         120,326          0          34,061          80,2t3             0         234,650
- Sector Not Identified                          338       177,433        96,856       40,000          35,935            2,068      352,630
- Ceneral Purpose                                0            0             0            0              1,963             0           1,963
Other Purposes                                   0           5,438          0          10.000           0                 0          15,438      0.2
- Admin. Budget Support                          0              26          0           0               0                 0             26
- Debt Relief                                    0           5,412          0           0               0                0           5,412
- Other Debt Reorgani-ation                      0            0             0          10,000           0                 0          10,000
Purpose Uknown                                   ,         724,585       103,058      196,535 I/     160.7C0           1289995    1,318.873      14.0
TOTAL                                         455,120    5,038,707       309,722    1,056,110       1,729,092          839,929    9,428,680 2/
Percent of Total                                4.8         53.5           3.3         11.2            18.3              8.9
1/ Includes 111,500 from Privately Planed Bonds.
2/ Deen not include US$223,001 thousands of unclassified debts.



ANNEX IT
Page 1 ;, 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at October 31, 1975)a/
US$ Million
Loan                                                            Amount Less
Numnber    Year           Borrower                 Purpose     Cancellations   Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                      1,239.9
527        1968     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Irrigation          25.0          2.5
695        1970     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Roads               21.8         -4.
793        1972     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Tourism             22.0         11.3
820        1972     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Ports               20.0          3.6
824        1972     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Industry            35.0         15.4
825        1972     Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.            Railways            75.0         21.4
909        1973     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Water Supply        90.0         81.9
931        1973     Siderurgica Lazaro Carde-
nas - Las Truchas, S.A.
and Nacional Financiera,
S.A.                        Steel               70.0          14.7
968        1974     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Roads               90.0         89.1
969        1974     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Irrigation          77.0          07-3
970        1974     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Irrigation          47.0          45.8
1022        1974     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Airports            25.0          24h4
1053        1974     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Integrated Rural
Development       50.0         50.0
1110        1975     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Integrated Rural
Development      110.0        11(9.0
1111        1975     Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Irrigation         150.0
1112        1975     Guanomex and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.            Industry            50.o
TOTAL                                          2,197.7       714TG
Of which has been repaid                         349.0
Total now outstanding                          1,848.7
Amount sold                     75.9
of which has been repaid        53.2
22.7
Total now held by Bank                         1,826.0
Total undisbursed                                             Thi-6
a/ Mo IDA Credits have been made to llexico.



ATJ.PTi7~ 171
Pave 2?   7 7  ges
. STAT1'-.:- OF 1'c T.UW7  5T-S (as at October -1,  1) 7
US$ Million
Year             Obligor                       Tye of Business        Loan    Equity Motal
1958/59    Industrias Perfect Circle,          Industrial Equipment    0.8        -     0.8
S.A. 2
1958        Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/         A/C Engine Overhaul     0.5        -     0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A.   J               TPi-st Drills           0.3        -     0.3
1962/65/   CorTmaliia Iundidora Fierro y       Steel                    2.3     21.h   23.7
66/6,       Acero de lonterrey, S.A.
1963        Tubos de Acero de _Mlexico,        Steel                   0.9       0.1    1.0
S.A. 1/
1963       Quimica del Rey, S.A. j             Sodium Sulphate          0.8       -     0.8
1964/66    Industria del Hierro, S.A.          Construction Enuipment    -       2.0    2.0
19!0       Minera del Norte, S.A.              Iron Ore Mining         1.5        -     '.5
1971       Oelanese Mexicana, S.A.             Textiles               12.0        -    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel Periodico,      Pulp and Paper                     2/
S.A. de C.V.                                                       -
1973       Cemento Veracruz                    Cement                 10.5        -     10.5
197L1      Cancun Aristos Hotel                Tourism                 1.0       0.2    1.2
1975       Nexinox, S.A.                       Steel                  12.0       3.6   15.6
Total Gross Cormniitments                                  b6.2     27.3   69.9
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                     1J4.3     21.6   36.4
Tlotal corimitpents now held by IFC                        27.       7.7    33.5
-otal Undisbursed                                          12.0      3.6   15.6
'/Investments ,hich have been fully cpncelJed, terminated, wrnit;en off', solr-d, redeemed
or repaid.
!j8;?(,'Oo.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 527   Fourth Irrigation Pro.ject: $25 Million Loan of January 26.
1968; Effectiveness Date: March 1, 1969. Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
Civil works are about 60 percent complete and it is
anticipated that all work to be done using loan funds will
be completed by December 31, 1975, and disbursements completed
by the present closing date of June 30, 1976. Annual net
agricultural production values, in terms of 1967 prices
(appraisal date), are already at a level equal to 87 percent
of those projected at appraisal for full development.
Ln. No. 695   Fourth Road Project: $21.8 Million Loan of June 26.
1970; Jffectivenless Date: October 1, 1970. Closing
Date: December 3T, 1976.
Seven project roads have been completed and opened to
traffic. The remaining four roads are expected to be completed
at various dates up to the end of 1976, or about two years behind
schedule. This delay was caused by the lag in budgetary
appropriations for project works and by increased quantitites
of works. There have been cost increases on five of the project
roads for these same reasons, and also because of design
revisions and sharp price increases since late 1973.
Ln. No. 793   Zihuatanejo Tourism Project: $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1975.
All project-related construction in the Ixtapa tourism zone
was completed in mid-1975. A trust fund was recently organized
for the provision of urban infrastructure in the town of Zihuatanejo
and the necessary works have been undertaken since December 1974.
It is now estimated that all works related to this project will be
substantially completed by end-1975, by which time more than 520
hotel rooms should also be available in the tourism area.
Ln. No. 820   Ports Project: $20 Million Loan of May 17, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: August 17, 1972. Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
Progress in execution of the project continues to be
satisfactory. Appraisal of a second ports project, based
largely on studies carried out as part of this project, is
under way. Port tariffs have recently been increased but
further increases will be needed within a year to put the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evpluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page L of 7 pages
port system on a sound financial basis and provide a
contribution to the financing of ports investments proposed
in the next few years including those in the project being
appraised.
Ln. No. 824   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:   $35 Million
Loan of June 2. 1972: Effectiveness Date: October 12. 1'i72.
Closing Date:  December 31, 1975.
The loan became effective on October 12, 1972. After a
slow start due to organizational problems, all Bank furds
have been committed; a new project has been appraised for a
possible second loan by the Bank.
Ln. No. 825   Second Railway Project:   $75 Million Loan of June 2,
1972; Effectiveness Date:  August 17, 1972. Closing
Date: June 30. 1977.
Progress in implementation of the Investment Plan,
procurement and disbursement is satisfactory. Freight traffic
carried in 1974 is considerably higher than in 1973, and early
1975 statistics indicate a continuation of this trend. Locomotive
utilization has significantly improved but freight car utilization
has deteriorated due to higher turn around time. Tariffs have
been increased by an average of 44 percent for freight from
January 1975 and by an average of 22 percent for passenger
services from Februaryr 1975. While the financial position of
the freight service will improve substantially with this tariff
increase, the situation remains unsatisfactory for passenger
services. Discussions are taking place with the Government and
certain actions are contemplated to remedy the latter situation.
Ln. No. 834   Fourth Power Sector Program: $125 Million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30  1975.
The loan is fully disbursed. A recent tariff increase
provides significant additional revenues; however, the sector's
financial performance is still short of the targets agreed
between the Government and the Bank. The Bank has requested an
investment and financing plan, showing how the Government proposed
to meet the agreed targets, before considering a new project in
the sector. Progress on improvements in budgeting and construction
management has been satisfactory.
Ln. No. 909   Mexico City Water Supply Project:   $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Physical execution of the project is progressing
satisfactorily. However, disbursements from the loan acco.un.



ANNEL II
Page 5 of 7 pages
have been delayed due to delays in the resolution of
administrative arrangements between the Mlexico Valley WIater
Commission (the executing agency) and the Federal Government.
It is expected that disbursements from the Loan account will
soon increase substantially reflecting the progress of the
project. A sales contract between the Water Commission and
the State of Mexico, which is a condition for disbursement
of funds aggregating over $40 million, has recently been signed.
The Government has been requested to clarify some aspects of
the agreement, prior to the release of the $40 million.
Ln. No. 910    Fourth Livestock and Agricultural Project: $110 Mlillion
Loan of June 18. 1973; Effectiveness Date: October 24, 1973.
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
This project is coming to a successful close as all funds
should be committed by December 1975. In September, 1975 interest
rates under the General Sub-Project which differ according to
loan size, were increased for the second tine with the maximum
rate raised to 14.5 percent from a previous 12 percent. The
official banking system is being reorganized by the gradual
consolidation of the three existing banks into one entity. The
Fondo's overall management has been adequate but handling of the
monitoring system has been somewhat disappointing.
Ln. No. 934    Las Truchas Steel Project:  $70 Mlillion Loan of September 12,
1972; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project and procurement of the equipment
financed by the loan are progressing largely as scheduled. A
second stage project is being considered.
In. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Substantial delays have been encountered in the initiation
of project works caused mainly by shortage of budgetary allocations.
The Government is aware of the need for increased budgetary
allocations during the forthcoming years to conpensate for the
delays and to cover significant cost increases, it has informed
the Bank that all efforts will be made to increase the allocations.
Overall progress of project works is estimated at about 2 percent.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project: $77 Mtillion Loan of M4arch 1,
1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31. 19d00
Good progress is being made on construction of this project;
it is anticipated that irrigation service can be initiated on a
10,000 ha unit of the Las Animas unit by late 1975. aO.ners of



ANiNEX II
P' ,e 6 rf 7 pages
private land in the project area are largely electing to be
paid for their land in cash rather than accept a ceiling of 20 ha
on an irrigated hclding. This will mak-e more land available for
forming ejidos than anticipated at appraisal.
Ln. No. 970   Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project: $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of the Sinaloa de Leyva Diversion Dam and
the first 17 km of the Bamoa Canal is virtually complete.
Construction will start on the Bacurato dam and stogare
reservoir, the major feature of the project. Negotiations are
still underway between SRH and the private land owners having
water rights concerning the size of holding which may be retained
by the owner under the project. These will take time but no
major problems are foreseen at this time in project implementation.
Ln. No. 1022  Airport Development Project: $25 Million Loan of May 28,
1974; Effectiveness Date: Septerr.ber 16, 1974. Closing
Date: June 30, 1978.
The first group of contracts for this Regional Airports
Development Project was awarded in November and Debember 1974,
for amounts averaging 15 percent above appraisal estimates
including contingencies. Because of Governmental budget contraints,
the executing agency, SOP, has proposed a re-scheduling of future
contract awards to extend the construction period by two years.
Since such an extension would add additional costs, the matter is
under discussion with the Government to determine how best the
project might be completed close to the original schedule.
Ln. No. 1053  Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project: $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The loan became effective on January 27, 1975.
Ln. No. 1 1 1 OSecond Integrated Rlural Development Project: $110 NHillion
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: Decemiber 31, 1982.
The loan became effective on October 29, 1975.
Ln. No. 1111  Seventh Irrigation Project - B,ijo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan:  $150 Millicn Lcan of l'ay 8, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan became effective on July 30, 1975.



AJiUEX II
Page 7 of 7pages
In. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:   $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31. 1978.
The loan became effective on July 30, 1975.



L:iCEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
MEICO
LOTA  AND PROJECT SUIuMARY
Borrower:               Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BHIOSP)
Guarantor:              United iexican States
Amount:                 US$ho million equivalent
Terms:                  Payable in 20 years including h years of grace at
an interest of 8-1/2 percent per annum0
Project Description:    Improvement and extension of water supply
facilities in eight medium size cities (Ciudad
Victoria, Jalapa, Mexicali, Morelia, Reynosa,
Salamanca, Tampico-Ciudad Madero and Tuxtla
Gutierrez) and sewerage services in six of them.
The project also includes a training program
for the executing agency, SRH, and the beneficiariest
staff.
Estimated Cost: (In US$ millions equivalent)
Local     Foreig      Total
I Construction Cost
8 city sub-projects               32.4        21.6       5400
II.  Engineering and Administration      3.3        2.2        5'5
(10 percent)
III. Training Program                     0.3       02         0.5
Sub Total                                    36)0       2400       6000
IV0 Contingencies
Physical (15 percent)               5.3        3.5        8.8
Price                              12.7        8.5       21.2
Sub Total                                   54-0        36.0       90.0
Interest   during  construction               60o        4.o       10.0
Total                                        5O.0       4000      1DO.0



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Financing Plan (1976-1979)                  Amount     Percentage
US$ mil1;ons
Source of Funds
IBRD Loan                               40.0          400
Government Contribution                 60.0          6o.o
1°°.°         1°°.0
Application of Funds
Cost of Sub-projects                    89.5          89.5
Interest during construction            1°.0         1iO0
Training Programs                        0-5           0o5
1°°o°         1°°.°
Estimated Disbursements (Amount US$ million)
Fiscal Year             Annually             Cumulative
1976                   0.5                     0.5
1977                   13.5                   14.0
1978                   16.0                   30.0
1979                    9.0                   9.0
1980                   1.0                   N.0
Procurement Arrangements:      Contracts for civil works (to be grouped
insofar as possible to cost US$1.6 million
or more) and procurement of materials and
equipment (estimated to cost US$150,000 or
more) on basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines
for procurement. Invitations to bid for
civil works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$1.6 million and more than
the equivalent of US$80,000, and for
materials and equipment estimated to cost
less than the equivalent cf US$150,000  -
and more than the equivalent of US$50,000,
shall be advertised locally in accordance with
the normal practices of the Government, which
do not preclude bidding by foreign contractors
or suppliers. Civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$80,000 or less may be
procured (i) in accordance with the Guarantor's



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
ordinary procurement procedures; and
(ii) through force account in special
cases justified to the satisfaction of the
Bank; provided that the aggregate cost of
such works shall not exceed the equivalent
of US$1.2 million. Materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or less, may be procured on the
basis of price quotations obtained from not
less than three suppliers following the
Guarantor's usual procedures, provided that
the aggregate cost of such procurement
shall not exceed the equivalent of
US$0.8 million.
Consultants:                   To be selected by SRH and Government. Bank
loan will cover expenditures on foreign
consultants for training only.
Rate of Return:                The incremental financial rates of return
on the proposed investment on water supply
range from 0.7 to 10.7.
Appraisal Report:              Report No. 885a-ME dated November 26, 1975,
Regional Projects Department, Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office.



IBRD- 11858
oap _ An                                                                                                                                       SEPTEMBER P7T
n ;tU.   S.      A.
CESt      \IN NTU     N                            PASO i
MEXICO
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
- --                    C.p.EN~~~  ,~ElE    ~       ~        1TB                   WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
S ~~~~~~~~ ~~LOCATION OF SUB-PROJECTS
G U LF   O F     MEXICO
-.10WA                              S                 \P,  ............                 P-<    \ \ \ y I=AYL       S ES
____B. SE,                C ALIEI  SU ,  IS. AEPEEV oSEoE
= CITIES ON TSE PROJECT
THPE MAIN ROADS  S. -ERA°E  El PE'lE-
5AIIlI AYS     `. NE-EE  E ZSTR E . T501j5 1   BEIZESE
SIAI E  ASSES  B.  SINELSA   BE. 1  ESISR
| _- _   INSIERWAIONAOt BOUNDARIE  P. ES RPEE  ES.  E E
1, 1A1. ES    A I UES  LP010 5  ON SENEE 0IN,,rw.r EN IRE NO r e,
12. BLEBSERBE  23. CBlI-S5 BEE (O                                                                       W h,
, . .. , I~~~1A. AUM L-TC  55   T EACH 7A31                                                                                . GUATEMALA -
I1. QU2ERTAID  Q3E . q TA.. t00  (T.,,.) IiR,,,,,£,,,                                            d  lW . t 



