Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19044-EGT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 36.9 MILLION
TO
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
THIRD SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1999
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound
US$1.00 =EGP 3.4
EGP 1.00 = US$0.29
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD        Board of Directors
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBID       Community Based Infrastructure Development
CDP        Community Development Program of the Social Fund
EAP        Environmental Action Plan
EDP        Enterprise Development Program
EDU        Environmental Development Unit
EEAA       Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
EIA        Egyptian Impact Assessment
EMU        Environmental Management Unit
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
ERSAP    Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
FI         Financial Intermediary
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOE        Government of Egypt
HRDP       Human Resources Development Program
HRI        Human Resources Index
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IDP        Institutional Development Program of the Social Fund
lIP       Implementation Progress
KFW        Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
LACI       Loan Administration ... Initiative
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS        Management Information System
MOSA       Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
O&M        Operations and Maintenance
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
PID        Project Information Document
PMR        Project Management Report
PPD        Program Planning Department
PRA        Participatory Rapid Appraisal
PWP        Public Work Programs of the Social Fund
SA         Sponsoring Agency
SEAM      Environmental Assessment and Management Program
SEDO       Small Enterprise Development Organization
SFD        Social Fund for Development
SIL        Sector Investment Loan
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
VTE        Vocational and Technical Education
Vice President:      Kemal Dervis
Country Director:    Khalid Ikram
Sector Director:     Jacques Baudouy
Team Leader:         David Steel



iv
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
Project development objective and key performance indicators .............................................................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ..............................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..............................................................2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........................................3
C. Project Description Summary ..............................................................3
1. Project components ..........................................................3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................................3
3.  Benefits and target population  ..........................................................3
4. Institutional and  implementation arrangements ..........................................................4
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................4
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection  .......................................................4
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .............4........4
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .......................................................6
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................................................                                       6
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project .........................................................                                            6
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................6
1. Economic .........................................................6
2. Financial .........................................................8
3. Technical .........................................................8
4. Institutional .........................................................8
5. Social ........................................................                                                                                   10
6. Environmental assessment ........................................................                                                                  10
7. Participatory approach ........................................................                                                                   12
F. Sustainability and Risks .............................................................                           .                                           12
1. Sustainability .............................................................                                                                      13
2. Critical risks .............................................................                                                                       13
3. Possible controversial aspects .............................................................                                                       13



iv
G. Main Credit Conditions .......................                                                14
1. Effiectiveness conditions .......................                                       14
2. Other .......................                                                           14
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                          14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                         14
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Project Description
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.  Economic Analysis and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Annex 5.  Financial Summary
Annex 6.  Environmental Management Plan (under preparation-to be added)
Annex 7.  Social Assessment Summary
Annex 8.  Operating Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Annex 9.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 9a Financial Management Assessment
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 10. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex i 1. Documents in Project File
Annex 12. Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 13. Country at a Glance
Map no.  IBRD 27759



Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Human Development Group
Date: 05/05/99                                     Task Tean Leader: David Steel
Country Director: Khalid lkram                     Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: 52705     Sector: Social Protection    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ I No
Project Financing Data               0 Loan    [X ] Credit    [H  Guarantee         [  Other [Specify]
Amount (US$m/SDRm): IDA Credit US$50.0 Million; SDR 36.9 Million
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): IDA Credit US$50.0 million; SDR 36.9 Million
Proposed terms:                       [ I  Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):   10       [XI  Standard Variable  [   Fixed         [ ]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:   35
Commitment fee:   Standard
Service charge:    0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local            Foreign           Total
Government                                                  8.0                2.0            10.0
Beneficiaries and NGOs                                      5.0                0.0             5.0
IDA                                                        40.0               10.0            50.0
Total         53.0               12.0             65.0
Borrower: Government of Egypt
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: The Social Fund for Development (SFD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):   2000       2001       2002
Annual     10.0       18.0       22.0
Cumulative    10.0       28.0       50.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2002  Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/99
Expected Completion Date: 06/30/02      Expected closing date: 12/31/02



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project's objective is to help create jobs and provide community infrastructure and services through labor intensive
works. The proposed project provides additional funds to the SFD's community infrastructure programs for an extension
(2000-2002) of the second phase (1997-2000) of the Social Fund for Development (SFD). The World Bank has been the
lead agency in developing and supporting the SFD.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16533-EGT Date of latest CAS discussion: May 25, 1997
The proposed Third Social Fund for Development project supports two of the four CAS priorities, private sector led growth
and human resources development, designed to support Egypt's goal of reducing unemployment and raising living
standards.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Egypt has successfully completed its economic stabilization program and has started the more difficult economic
restructuring phase. Economic growth has resumed but the country needs to spread the benefits of growth through job-
creation and poverty reduction. The Social Fund for Development (SFD), created in 1991, is essentially an instrument to
finance programs and services targeted to the unemployed and the poor.  Its programs are consistent with and
complementary to the Government's sectoral priorities across a range of sectors. The principal sector issues are:
Unemployment: Despite improvements in economic growth, unemployment remains high (estimates vary from 10-
13 percent for open unemployment). In addition there is substantial underemployment as traditional opportunities have
dried up while new ones are yet to be created. The age structure of unemployment is also a cause for concern with 70
percent of the unemployed being 35 years old or under, but not necessarily poor. About 560,000 new jobs must be created
each year. The Government considers employment generation through jobs created by the private sector as its top priority.
Poverty: Even though the situation in rural Egypt appears to have improved as a result of the resumption of
growth over the last few years, the incidence of poverty is still in the order of 22-30 percent of all households and the
number of poor continues to rise as a result of population growth. Poverty remains an important phenomenon and needs to
be addressed. Egypt's poverty is relatively shallow and much of it can be eliminated by moderate growth. However, there
is a special problem of how to help the poorest of the poor, where women and children feature disproportionately. These
groups may benefit less from growth and need direct targeting.
Community Based Development: While the Government offers a broad range of services in Egypt, it has tended
to be centralized in approach, and inefficient and ineffective in delivery. As a result its services have not always reached
socially excluded communities and groups. More decentralization and diversification of social service delivery systems are
needed.
Labor Redundancies: In the last year, the Government has accelerated the restructuring and/or privatization of the
public enterprises albeit from a low base. This results in the need to provide support to redundant workers through labor
adjustment programs. SFD's Human Resources Development Program (HRDP) is providing redundant workers with a
range of services to assist them in the transition to other jobs or with the provision of severance payments. It also provides
market-based training for the unemployed. A key strategic issue is how much should it expand training for the unemployed
in the context of a planned overhaul of the VTE sector. This is under discussion within the Government. The Bank is
supporting HRDP through the proposed Skills Development Project (FY00).



Page 3
Government Strategy: The Government is committed to a broad-based reform effort including closer integration with the
global economy, an enhanced role for the private sector, and greater efficiency in economic management. Accordingly, it
has placed the highest priority on accelerating private sector led, labor intensive economic growth and employment creation,
while maintaining political and social stability. The SFD is an important instrument in helping to realize this strategy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty Reduction and Unemployment - Several SFD programs such as small scale community infrastructure works and
the provision of services are designed to support employment generation and reduce poverty. The SFD created about
20,000 temporary and 50,000 pernanent jobs in 1997, approximately the same as in prior years'. The SFD's community
development program has had some success in reaching the poorest of the poor, with about 35 percent of its beneficiaries
being women. SFD is taking several steps to improve targeting during Phase II using the results of the recently completed
participative poverty assessment, and several impact assessments carried out during preparation of the proposed project.
As the SFD is probably the only agency, which has had any large scale success in reaching the poor, its continued role is
essential, but it will need to continually fine-tune and revisit its targeting methods.
Community Based Development: The SFD is the major source of financing for community-based development in Egypt.
The SFD is a partner of and works closely with communities, local organizations and NGOs to provide services, and plays
a particularly important role in providing social and community services to the socially excluded.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                Category     Cost Incl.    % of Total    IDA       % of IDA
Contingencies              Financing    financing
_  (US$M)   __ (US$M)
Public Works Program  (PWP) (Labor  Physical           45.9       71%          33.0
Intensive Works): Small scale public   Policy
works programs in partnership with
communities & local government.
Community   Development  Program  Policy,              19.1       29%          17.0
(CDP): Community based programs in  Physical,
partnership with NGOs and conununities to  Institutional
reduce poverty and improve quality of life  I
Total        65.0       100%         50.0        77%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Because this is a 'bridge credit' (see Section Dl), the project will not support any new policy or institutional reforms. But
the Bank will use the project to work with the SFD to move forward on the relevant reforms under the Second Social Fund
Project (Cr. 2865). These are: a) ensure sustainability of physical assets created through, inter alia, improved maintenance
arrangements; and b) improve targeting of programs on the poorest of the poor. In addition it will help the SFD to define its
long-term role as it moves from funding emergency programs towards a more permanent development role, and to make the
necessary policy and institutional changes.
3. Benefits and target population:
Beneficiary profiles ofjob-creation during Phase I show that the SFD beneficiaries are poorer than the average population.
Furthermore, SFD will help create services and infrastructure which will benefit many more people. Under Phase 1 (1992-
96) there were an estimated 16 million indirect beneficiaries. In addition SFD helps NGOs and communities directly by
helping build their capacity and that of the intermediary organizations to carry out development activities, as well as to
l All enumerations of beneficiaries are Social Fund estimates. The methodology is described in Annex 4, and is being improved
under the new Monitoring and Evaluation system, which the Social Fund is introducing in 1999.



Page 4
professionalize their management. The project is expected to continue this pattern and is expected to help create about
2,500 permanent -and 20,000 temporary jobs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The SFD has proven itself to be a fairly successful and efficient organization to reach poor and under-served populations
and to create employment opportunities. It is a semi-autonomous agency which is exempt from public sector procurement
and compensation regulations. Its staff works under performance-based contracts. SFD operates through procedures which
are established and detailed in operational manuals. Donors play an important role in financing and with the provision of
technical assistance. A Cairo-based donors group provides coordination and support. SFD works through partnerships
with communities, NGOs, restructuring enterprises and individual entrepreneurs.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project essentially provides 'bridge' financing to fill financing gaps resulting from: a) the faster than projected
disbursement of IDA's Credit 2865 for the Second Social Fund project; and b) the growth of the pipeline of small
community infrastructure and service provision projects. The main alternatives to the SFD for continued support for these
activities are to work either directly through Government agencies or to support NGOs. Government agencies do not yet
have the capacity to deliver the kinds of programs carried out by the SFD whereas the SFD does (see ICR (Report 17248)
for Credit 2276), which recommended future support on the basis of performance to date). To support NGOs through
another interrnediary would duplicate the work of the SFD, which as mentioned is an effective instrument.
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing andplanned):
Sector issue                   Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development Objective
Progress (IP)           (DO)
Bank-financed
1. Poverty Reduction/ Employment  Emergency Social Fund         Closed (S)           Closed (S)
Creation /Community based development  Second Social Fund          S                    S
Sohag Area Development     Not Effective        Not Effective
2. Health/Population              Schistosomiasis                  S                    S
Population                      S                    S
Health Sector Reform            S                    S
3. Education                      Basic Education                  S                    S
Education Enhancement            S                   S
Secondary Education         Not effective        Not effective
Skills Development          Under prep.          Under prep.
Other development agencies        Parallel and joint
Above Sectors                     cofinancing for Social
Fund, Education Sector and
Health Sector projects with
about 15 donors
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project reflects lessons learned from the first Emergency Social Fund project (Cr. 2276 - ICR Report No.
17248), lessons from the ongoing Phase II, as well as lessons from the World Bank's global experience with social funds in
general. The project also incorporates lessons from in-depth impact assessment of two programs carried out in 1997. The
assessment of two more programs (Enterprise Development Program (EDP) and Human Resources Development Program
(HRDP)) is close to completion. One of the findings was that these two programs do not need additional funding in the



Page 5
immediate future. In addition a Social Assessment and an Environmental Management review done for the preparation of
this project have yielded lessons. The main lessons are:
Public Works Program (PWP) Sustainability of Physical Assets: During Phase I the SFD faced a problem with
adequate operations and maintenance (O&M) of sub-projects. The situation is being rectified under Phase II through four
initiatives. First, SFD now uses a community partnership approach with local organizations to help maintain projects. At
the time of project approval, SFD establishes a maintenance fund in advance for each project with contributions equivalent
to 10 percent of the project cost from the sponsoring agencies and/or beneficiaries and an additional 10 percent from itself.
The income will be used to support O&M. An ongoing KfW funded study, Sustainability of Public Infrastructure, will
determine the management and operational procedures for using these funds. The study will be completed in March, 2000.
Second, the SFD is also conducting small contractor training over a two-year period, funded by Denmark. This will
increase the number of contractors capable of doing maintenance work. Third, SFD has introduced a program under which
it finances the mnanagement costs of projects, and arranges to contract project management and O&M know-how for
communities, which have been able to raise some but not all funds needed to finance a project, and which also lack
management know-how. The fourth initiative is to better identify community needs using a new Community Based
Infrastructure Development (CBID) approach. This relies on close cooperation with the Community Development Program
(CDP) of SFD. Finally Participative Rapid Appraisal (PRA) techniques are being introduced across the SFD and all staff
will be fully trained by March, 2000.
Quality: The SFD has operated efficiently (rapid execution and disbursement) but until recently paid less attention to sub-
project effectiveness (especially in terms of increased community participation, sustainability of benefits and social impact).
The relevant impact assessments found that the PWP involved communities less while the CDP has involved communities
more. In response, the SFD has or is introducing the changes to address sustainability, improved participation, targeting
and a better evaluation system detailed elsewhere in this section. In addition it is implementing a major management
decentralization change program, which will be fully implemented by June 30, 2000. This will give the 20 regional and 6
satellite offices more authority and, in particular, they will be responsible for all project preparation. A new monitoring and
evaluation system is being introduced in parallel to support decentralization and to provide an integrated platform for all
SFD MIS systems.
Improved targeting of programs on the poorest of the poor: Although quite effective in reaching the poor, the SFD has
had mixed outcomes in reaching the poorest of the poor for several reasons. There has been a strong emphasis on quick
results, and a centralized management system, which does not seem to use its targeting and resource allocation systems
proactively. The SFD targeting methodology has also been questioned in subsequent evaluation. There is a lack of
institutional capacity in the public, private and NGO sectors at the local level in poorer Govemorates; and the national level
agencies and NGOs, which it uses as wholesalers or 'sponsors' tend to prefer ready made projects and a standard approach
to project design and implementation. Certain donors also affect targeting by specifying eligible districts and types of
projects. In response, SFD is moving to decentralized management, launching a wide range of capacity building programs,
and its Livelihood and Impact Assessment Unit will conduct a Retargeting of Programs study between May and October,
1999. This will update the targeting methodology and integrate the results of the Priority II, Integrated II and Community
Needs II surveys into the SFD targeting system.
Need for Regular Impact Assessments: A final lesson from the ICR of the SFD I has been the need to carry out impact
assessments of selections of projects by sector or sub-sectors in addition to regular monitoring. SFD's Livelihood and
Impact Assessment Unit has been charged with doing more comprehensive impact assessments on a regular basis, as well as
providing staff training. The first two studies of this type, on the small enterprise and human resource development
programs, are close to completion. A business-economic study has been completed on the Enterprise Development
Program. In addition the PWP completed in December, 1998 an impact assessment on US$30.0 million of completed
infrastructure sub-projects, and is now conducting assessments of PWP programs in nine Governorates. It is also including
impact assessments in all consultant feasibility study terms of reference.



Page 6
4. Indications ofborrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower commitment has been amply demonstrated by the strong public support given by the Government to the SFD. In
addition, Egypt's 26 Govemorates, and particularly the poorer Govemorates, have emerged as champions of the SFD. It is
also supported by many national and local organizations and NGOs with which it has been a partner, on the basis of their
generally favorable experience with SFD. Central Government, counterpart agencies as well as beneficiaries have provided
additional or contributory funding for SFD programs. However, under Phase II of the SFD, Central Government has yet to
transfer the agreed upon contribution which has been budgeted; but discussions are underway, and it is expected that the
contribution will be made forthwith.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  Bank's global knowledge and experience of Social Funds, including Egypt
*  Bank acts as a catalyst for donor cofinancing and plays leadership role in donor coordination
*  Bank's sector work on NGOs
*  Targets the CAS objectives of reducing unemployment and raising living standards
*  Bank's expertise on evaluation methodology
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 11)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Issues:
a) In the context of Egypt's improving macroeconomic outlook, the Government and the Social Fund need to sharpen the
focus of the Social Fund on those groups excluded from the benefits of resumed economic growth, and to redefine its overall
role based on its strategic comparative advantages. This is because poverty in Egypt is fairly shallow, and sustained
economic growth will lift a sizeable number of poor above the poverty line. The Social Fund has just started a long-term
institutional development 'visioning' exercise, which IDA among other donors is supporting. This is an appropriate
instrument to address this issue. The Social.Fund was quite successful in addressing the three Government economic
strategy priorities of employment creation, poverty alleviation and private sector development during the economic
stabilization phase of the economic reform program (1992-97). And since the resumption of growth in 1997, the Social
Fund has remained a comerstone of the Government's employment and social strategies.
b) The Social Fund's programs provide strong public good externalities, target poorer communities unlikely to be reached
by the private sector, and support private sector intervention where possible. This justifies public intervention in this
project.
c) The fiscal impact of the Social Fund is modest (between 0.2-0.3 percent of GDP in recent years and about 15 percent of
Govermment social protection expenditures over the same period). But as a consequence, its impact on poverty and
unemployment is also correspondingly limited. The imputed average annual per capita transfers per poor person reached
less than 4 percent of poverty line income. The impact on unemployment is larger. Jobs, permanent and temporary, created
by SFD programs absorbed up to 12 percent of the estimated unemployed (assuming all were net new jobs).
d) Cost effectiveness is not an issue now (see Cost Effectiveness analysis below), except in certain Community
Development sub-programs such as health, literacy and training where cost effectiveness indicators are not yet well
developed. Part of the problem is to find adequate information on comparator programs. The CDP is working to improve
cost effectiveness analysis in these sub-program areas. Cost effectiveness may become a larger issue in the future as the
Social Fund shifts towards a strategy focussed more on the socially excluded, which may require higher program and unit
costs.



Page 7
e) Recurrent costs remain an issue for the Public Works Program (PWP) and are discussed elsewhere (see Sections D3 and
E2). Recurrent costs 3or the Community Development Program (CDP) are relatively high but are mostly borne by the
benedciaries. Nevertheless, under the new Community Based Infrastructure Program (CBIP) initiative, which will combine
the two programs, the PWP O&M strategy will be introduced to CDP programs as well. This will help keep recurrent costs
under close review.
f) Monitoring and Evaluation has improved in the last two years, but requires further improvements. Process and output
data and information are adequate, and the existing MIS supports this kind of data production fairly well. But beneficiary
enumeration needs to be improved. Outcome data and information are less adequate. The Social Fund has completed a
series of Impact Assessment studies since 1995 covering all of its programs. It also established an Impact Assessment Unit
in 1998. Donors have conducted several other evaluations, one of which (Denmark on community development) was
negative. While the methodology and quality of the analytical work have improved, work done to date suffers from an
absence of baseline data, weak analysis, and conclusions that are not managerially or operationally very useful. In addition,
no evaluation has yet been done using control group methodology. In response, the Social Fund is revamping its MIS, and
has contracted out its first study to a qualified firm with good result. It is also designing a new targeting system (see
Section E5), which will force the collection of baseline data during project preparation. It also plans to provide training to
its own staff as well as select Sponsoring Agencies, which act on its behalf as umbrella organizations to support
implementing agencies. During the period of the proposed project, the Social Fund will conduct the first evaluation using a
control group methodology (see Annex 4 for further details).
[XI Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR= 21 percent
It is difficult to calculate an ERR for the overall project given the problems with quantifying the benefits of some of the
activities, such as upgrading public health and the environment, and providing job-training. But an ERR has been
calculated for sub-projects accounting for approximately 75 percent of total project costs. Health, literacy and institutional
and technical assistance to intennediary projects were excluded. On this basis the project's ERR is estimated to be 21
percent. A sensitivity analysis was conducted and yielded an ERR of about 15 percent when benefits are reduced by 20
percent. The project would also have additional non quantifiable social and environmental benefits.
In evaluating sub-projects, the Social Fund quantifies benefits wherever possible using measures of willingness to pay for
comrnunity services; estimates of travel cost savings (roads); rental values (community buildings); and enhanced prospects
for earnings (technical training and enterprise development). A minimum threshold rate of 12 percent is normally required.
The average ERR on public works projects has been 20.4 percent with an average cost benefit ratio of 2.5.
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
The Social Fund's small scale community infrastructure and social service programs are cost effective. Average annual job
creation costs declined between Phase I (1992-97) and Phase 11 (1997-date) from about US$2,400 to US$1,300. This
includes small and microenterprise programs data. Disaggregated data show Phase II costs of about US$4,150 for public
works job creation, US$2,537 for the Community Development program, and about US$1,050 for the small and
microenterprise programs. Public works, and small and microenterprise job creation costs declined by more than 50 percent
each between Phase I and II, while community development costs rose to about 165 percent. Although it is difficult to make
useful cross country comparisons because of data and definitional problems, a 1997 World Bank Direction and
Development Series titled "Safety Net Programs and Poverty Reduction: Lessons from Cross Country Experience" found
that the Egypt Social Fund's job creation costs compared favorably with those in five comparator countries. The Social
Fund's unit construction cost performance compares favorably against comparator programs in Egypt, with costs varying
from 8 percent more for roads and wells, to 6 percent less for other types of infrastructure depending on the type of sub-
project. The higher costs for roads and wells are explained by adherence to high engineering standards and enforcement
through rigorous inspection and supervision procedures. Contractors under the Social Fund's programs pay local market
wages.



Page 8
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$         million; FRR=       percent
Operations and niaintenance (O&M) for PWP and CDP sub-projects are the key financial issue for this project. As noted
in Section D3, O&M problems have been particularly acute for PWP sub-projects. These have not been able to be funded
from user charges even for projects such as water-supply and sanitation where benefits reach individuals and where they
have expressed willingness to pay. This is because of an interpretation of the public finance law which states that all
compulsory payments go to the Ministry of Finance. The PWP's new maintenance fund approach described in Section D3
is designed to improve the situation. This is not an ideal solution but seems to be the only one feasible under current laws.
It may also be the only feasible approach for essentially "public goods" such as roads between two villages where no one is
willing to pay. However, for water supply and sanitation, a more direct resort to user charges is preferable. This policy
issue is being addressed through the relevant ongoing sectoral dialogue with Egypt. It is important to note that NGOs
implementing CDP projects have always been free to charge user fees and are doing so with the exception of the literacy
program (where there is a social justification for exemption because of "externalities").
3. Technical:
SFD is among the most efficient agencies in Egypt in delivering goods, works and services. Technical quality assurance
standards and procedures are built into each of its programs and are in accordance with national standards and norms as
established by the relevant public authority or agency.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Project will be implemented by the SFD in accordance with its established procedures. These are stated in its
Operational Manual, which was developed in consultation with the Government and donors, and which is updated regularly.
The SFD executes projects in partnership with implementing agencies who are at the same time development partners -
Govemorates, NGOs, local community organizations, commercial banks and ministries. The main office is in Cairo, and
sets the overall strategy, prepares technical plans and budgets for sub-projects, handles financial transactions, and provides
operational support and guidance to the 20 regional and 6 satellite offices outside Cairo. These offices are the main point of
contact between requesting agencies and the SFD. They provide advice to commnunities, NGOs and regional governments
on SFD procedures, process applications, conduct appraisals, and support implementation. As previously noted, SFD is in
the middle of a significant decentralization of management responsibilities to its local offices.
b. Project management:
SFD is exempt from public sector compensation, personnel recruiting, budgeting, procurement, and disbursement laws and
regulations. Its targeting system and allocation of resources procedures reduce political risks, and help ensure that high
social return subprojects are directed to the poor. Its standardized approach to sub-projects promotes efficiency and results
on the ground. Oversight by external donors has provided political support to SFD, and has helped to foster management
practices with an emphasis on monitoring and evaluation.
The Government will on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit to the Social Fund on the same terms and conditions as for the
IDA credit, including bearing the foreign exchange risk. The Government has a policy, introduced in the last two years, of
passing on the costs of foreign borrowing to autonomous implementing agencies. It is designed to encourage fiscally
prudent behaviour as well as cost-sharing to the extent feasible and equitable. Although the sub-projects to be financed by
the IDA credit will not generate any revenue stream for the Social Fund to be used to repay service and interest charges on
the IDA credit, IDA agreed to this arrangement on an exceptional basis, because the proposed IDA credit is a relatively
small proportion (about 7 percent) of the total resources available to the Social Fund. However to help ensure the long-term
financial sustainability of the Social Fund, IDA will jointly, with the Government and the Social Fund, undertake an
assessment of the Social Fund's overall financial position and expected future financial performance with the objective of
reaching an agreement with the Government on a secure funding base for the Social Fund in future. This study will be
conducted as part of the long-term strategic planning exercise on the future role of the Social Fund, that IDA has already
agreed to assist the Social Fund with (see Section C2).



Page 9
A financial management review was undertaken during project preparation (see Annex 9(a)) in addition to the financial and
procurement assessmeint report (project file). It covered: (i) the organization structure of SFD; (ii) accounting practices;
(iii) internal controls; (iv) external and internal audit arrangements; (v) reporting; (vi) staffing of the financial management
function; and (vii) special account arrangements. Although the current financial management system is quite sophisticated
at the central level, it is considered unsatisfactory to IDA because it lacks: '. adequate internal controls at the sub-project
implementation level; (ii) a good budgetary control process; (iii) a satisfactory internal and external audit coverage; and (iv)
project management reports (PMR) generation capability as specified in the LACI handbook to allow PMR-based
disbursements.
IDA and SFD agreed at negotiations on a combined financial and procurement Action Plan with an implementation
timetable. This will allow SFD to comply with IDA's OP 10.02 and LACI requirements, and will improve procurement
processes and monitoring. It includes improvements to the internal controls system and expanded coverage of external and
internal audits at the sub-project level, as well as a technical procurement audit to be undertaken by November, 1999 for
further evaluation of field level activities and to make recommendations for improvement. Completion in a manner
acceptable to IDA of the Action Plan (with the exception of Part E (see below)) to allow SFD to comply with OP10.02
would be a condition of IDA credit effectiveness. This part of the Action Plan, which includes the procurement audit, is
expected to be completed by November 30, 1999, which would be prior to the expected date of effectiveness. The second
part of the Action Plan (see Part E of Financial Management and Procurement Systems Action Plan in Annex 9 (a)), which
is to produce a draft PMR acceptable to IDA, will be completed by May 31, 2000. Once completed, the project is expected
to be LACI compliant. Disbursements will then be based on the quarterly PMR submission. The PMR will be according to
the LACI handbook format.
SFD will be responsible for project financial management and reporting, using systems and procedures acceptable to IDA.
Project accounts will be kept according to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. They will be audited annually,
following International Auditing Standards, by qualified independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report
will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
The new structure of the SFD's finance department is not final yet, as there will be some restmcturing after the spin off of
the Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO) of SFD. The SFD is also currently revamping its MIS system
which is expected to improve planning and reporting, and will require further modifications to enable the system to produce
PMR-based reports.
The SFD's financial accounts are audited annually by private independent auditors. However, given the increasing volume
of SFD's portfolio, it was agreed that the scope of the auditors work would be expanded to undertake in-depth reviews of
SFD program projects and sub-projects. SFD's monitoring and evaluation system is also being upgraded to support the
new decentralized management system and to integrate a previously rather disintegrated system, which was adequate when
management was centralized.  It has also established three new central units to support decentralization; the
Livelihood/Impact Assessment Unit discussed in Section D3, an Environment Development unit, which is responsible for
central environmental guidance as well as for launching new initiatives in such fields as cultural heritage, and a Technology
and Development Center to provide technical support to small industries. These are in addition to its Institutional Planning
unit, now responsible for planning and budgeting. A previously separate Gender Unit is being mainstreamed. It reviews all
sub-projects for gender focus. The SFD's success in the past has been due to its ability to adapt to changing circumstances
and learning from field experience. The new units will help reinforce that, although their mandates will have to be carefully
defined.
5. Social:
a) SFD tries to reduce social risk and to reach out to low-income groups in a variety of ways. These include poverty
mapping, large scale promotion and outreach efforts, and use of local NGOs and conumunity groups. SFD has just
completed a participative poverty assessment designed to better understand the problems of the poor and understand the best
ways of reaching out to the poorest of the poor and the socially excluded. It is in the process of introducing a new targeting
system and is piloting the use of various beneficiary assessment techniques as well as the training of 24 NGOs to become
trainers, as tools to better determine beneficiary needs. The new targeting system to be introduced by PWP and CDP will



Page 10
use the UNDP Human Resource Index (HRI). This targeting system maps multiple HRI indicators down to the
Govemorate and some district levels currently. This work will be continued until all districts are covered. The SFD is
designing a matrix which matches clusters of HRI indicators with a specific project intervention or set of interventions to
help improve those indicators. This is a quick reference check system on the more formal system it has been using and
helps alleviate the shortcomings of that system. DWP managers and staff will use the targeting system in a more explicit
way. This will involve training for staff including those in the 20 regional and 6 satellite offices. Improved community
participation in project selection and design will be achieved through the initiatives being undertaken in the contexts of the
introduction of decentralized management into SFD and of the Community Based hifrastructure Program (CBIP) approach
already described above. In addition the SFD Livelihood/Impact Assessment Unit is just beginning a major revision to SFD
targeting systems overall. The Impact Assessment Unit will conduct a Retargeting of Programs study between May and
October, 1999. This will update the targeting methodology and integrate the results of the Priority II, Integrated II and
Community Needs II studies into the SFD targeting system. Finally, the SFD has a satisfactory track record in reaching
women, who overall represent about 35 percent of all beneficiaries.
b) These are all good social risk mitigation tools. However as the SFD moves away from the emergency phase of its
operations, there are several areas which the Social Assessment identifies as ripe for reexamination. These include more
geographically focused interventions as opposed to broad interventions with limited impact in any one place; a more
concerted effort to bring community infrastructure and services to the very poor (e.g. provision of individual house water
connections in a poor village, and not just the trunk and secondary pipelines); introduction/expansion of improved needs
assessment methods and training of more SFD staff to allow for greater participation of the poor in needs determination as
opposed to having their needs determined for them by Govemorate or local steering committees, which are insufficiently
representative; how to balance demands for sustainability with the need to support communities which are unable to
mobilize their own funds; the need to focus on institutional as well as financial sustainability to prevent projects from being
one shot events; and the need to engage with/support emerging types of NGOs such as street vendors' associations. The
SFD also needs to examine the characteristics of temporary employment (e.g. who is being employed, possible gender pay
gaps), and how more permanent jobs can be created in rural areas. Finally, there are programmatic limitations on reaching
the socially excluded or poorest of the poor, who are unable to work or pay fees for services.
c) The SFD's visioning exercise, to be supported by IDA in parallel with the proposed project, provides the right frame
within which to examine these issues. In addition SFD has sufficient surveys and studies and is now putting in place its
new specialized units, which together will provide the necessary technical underpinnings for the visioning exercise. The
Social Assessment does not prejudge the outcome of this work, but suggests several new directions, areas of focus and
building of new relationships which the SFD could consider. These include: defining overall role and strategic comparative
advantages; more experimentation with design and piloting of services outside the current set of packages to provide models
to be mainstreamed by national agencies, including greater collaboration with and encouragement of the private sector; the
establishment of long-term mutual learning partnerships with the NGO establishment; a possible advocacy role for the
socially excluded; social intermediation interventions; the recruitment of more participation experts and the training of more
existing regional staff in such techniques; and a more concentrated effort to disseminate SFD experience and study findings
both inside and outside SFD.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [] A   [X] B  []C
a) Justification/Rationale for category rating:
The proposed project would have no significant environmental risks.  However, as the SFD finances repair and
rehabilitation of water and sewage sub-projects that may have adverse environmental impacts, the project is rated 'B'.
Within the two main programs (PWP and CDP) to be financed under the project, there are projects that will require
environmental assessments to identify adverse environmental impacts and mitigation measures. The SFD will implement an
environmental screening process for both programs that will be based on the environmental screening system already used
by PWP, that uses classifications similar to the classification system in OP 4.01, and consistent with the screening
categories mandated by the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA), according to project type and size. This
process will divide projects into two groups: (i) those that will have no significant adverse environmental consequences; and



Page 1 1
(ii) those that will have significant impacts. This review process will include a desk review and at times a site-specific
review to be undertaker, in the field by qualified SFD staff, beneficiaries or consultants.
Unde1 the proposed project, the SFD will build on its past experience to develop a better environmental review process.
In general, two concerns need to be addressed with SFD projects - project design and environmentally sustainable
operations. An Environment Development Unit (EDU), established in 1998, will provide guidance for PWP and CDP on
minimum engineering design criteria that would incorporate the mitigating measures resulting from the environmental
assessments of sub-projects. All project proposals submitted to the SFD's PWP and CDP will need to have a clear process
of environmental screening for potential environmental impact. The checklists that have been used in the past by PWP will
be reviewed and if necessary revised in accordance with the World Bank's Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. The
current guidelines of EEAA should also be consulted to develop the revised SFD environmental review procedures. These
environmental reviews would be prepared by the project sponsor/beneficiary with technical assistance from the SFD and
include, at a minimum the following: overview of the current environmental conditions at the site: assessment of potential
adverse environmental and human health impacts associated with design, construction and operation of the project;
mitigation measures to reduce the above impacts; and identification of responsible parties for ensuring implementation of
mitigation measures and public consultation with sub-project beneficiaries. This will be applied to the following project
schemes: (a) solid waste collection; (b) landfills; (c) waste water treatment; (d) potable water supply and distribution; (e)
rehabilitation and pavement of rural roads; and (f) canal coverings.
The new EDU will act as a centralized environmental unit to oversee SFD's environmental efforts. The role of the unit is to
screen sub-projects, review the environmental assessments prepared by the beneficiaries, consult with EEAA and seek
further concurrence from the concerned authorities, make recommendations on sub-project approvals, and supervise the
mitigating and monitoring plans as appropriate. The Social Fund will provide a detailed mission statement with the
functions of the EDU and a description of staff roles and responsibilities. Each unit will present an annual work plan that
identifies its environmental responsibilities and outputs. The work plan will identify all costs for undertaking these
functions.
The Social Fund will expand environmental training to improve the understanding of environmental issues associated with
SFD projects. Target audiences include personnel from SFD, implementing agencies, contractors and selected NGOs. Past
SFD sponsored environmental training, often using Egyptian environmental specialists, has been well received and
considered beneficial. Environmental training related to the SFD projects will also be provided to local Government
personnel, NGOs, and other local authorities from communities.
Environmental reporting is not supported by the Social Fund's current MIS. In the new MIS, now under development,
capacity to support an environmental performance monitoring plan is required to ensure that mitigation measures are
adequately implemented and effective in reducing impacts according to design. The monitoring program will clearly
indicate the linkages between impacts, indicators for measurement, methods to be used, frequency of measurements,
detection limits (when appropriate), and threshold values. This plan should include a description of how regular field site
reviews of selected schemes will be undertaken.
The Social Fund will also develop environmental strategies for its PWP and CDP programs, will undertake a pilot
partnership with two of the EEAA's new Enviromnental Management Units in poor Govemorates in which the Social Fund
is active to help strengthen their capabilities, and will expand environmental components of its overall public awareness
campaigns.
Solid waste removal projects in Egypt are caught in a thicket of legal, institutional and financial issues that have stymied
progress for many years and created a particularly serious problem as a result. Several studies have been conducted on
solid waste in Egypt by various bodies (EEAA, the Ministry of Scientific Research and Technology, etc.) without result.
Yet the demand for these projects is high throughout the country, including demands on the SFD, especially under the CDP.
The SFD through the CDP wants to have the technical capability to deliver environmentally sound solid waste collection
and management schemes. The SFD will lead a study to develop a practical guide for the design, construction and
operation of rural based waste collection and management systems.
The Environment Management Plan (EMP) is attached (see Annex 6) and the resulting proposed Action Plan summarized at
the end of that annex, was agreed at negotiations. The Netherlands will provide up to US$250,000 from Trust Funds it



Page 12
provides to the Social Fund, and the Social Fund will finance the balance of the Action Plan total costs of US$400,000.
b) Status of Category A assessment:   EA start-up date:   NA
Date of first EA dmft:
Current status:
Proposed actions: N/A
c) Status of any other environmental studies:  NA
d) Local groups and NGOs consulted: Egyptian Enviromnental Affairs Agency (EEAA), major NGOs and environmental
organizations in Egypt were consulted during preparation of the Environment Management Plan (EMP). Training seminars
on the EMP will be arranged in accordance with the Action Plan.
e) Resettlement [XI None
f) Borrower permission to release EA:   [I Yes  [I No   [XI N/A
7: Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory approach not
used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Social Funds by definition are demand-driven and participatory. The SFD works directly with many beneficiary
organizations beginning with its promotional outreach programs through supervision and impact assessment studies. But an
internal evaluation concluded that participation levels in the SFD can be improved especially with respect to the PWP. The
other programs are more participatory. For its Community Based Infrastructure Program, the SFD is in the process of
introducing a new targeting system, which places greater emphasis on reaching primary beneficiaries. It is piloting the use
of Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA) techniques as well as the training of 24 NGOs to become trainers in two
Governorates as tools to better determine beneficiary needs. This program will be expanded nationally by March, 2000.
The SFD has completed a participatory poverty assessment to draw lessons from which it can improve its outreach to the
socially excluded. The Social Assessment has a number of recommendations on how to expand participation and on how to
reach the socially excluded (Section ES).
b. Other key stakeholders:
The SFD works with and interacts with a wide range of NGOs, community associations, local government organizations,
business organizations and academic institutions throughout Egypt as well as with many central government ministries and
agencies, all of which are responsible for delivering SFD funded programs and services.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability and risk analysis:
Three aspects of the project need to be considered with regard to sustainability: the SFD as an institution, its programs, and
individual sub-projects. Sustainability of the SFD as an institution over the medium-term is assured, as donor interest and
support remain high. As yet, the Government of Egypt has not provided its agreed contribution to Phase II. This is under
discussion between IDA management and the Government. Once the contribution has been made, it will reduce the
sustainability risk. The SFD has proved to be an important vehicle to help the central authorities work with regional
authorities. SFD has shown good results on the ground and in helping build capacity at the local and regional level. While
many SFD activities can be transferred to local authorities, global experience indicates that this will happen very slowly and
the need for the SFD will continue for a fairly long time. In this case SFD needs to clearly define and rationalize its
relationship with the relevant line ministries as well as with local government and the non-governmental sector. The SFD
has asked IDA to assist it with a 'visioning' exercise to help determine its long-term role. This will be done in parallel with
the proposed project.



Page 13
Sustainability of the individual programs and sub-projects of the SFD will need continued careful attention to design and
implementation and the steady introduction of changes suggested by the SFD's increasingly sophisticated monitoring and
evaluation machinery. Two major change programs, O&M for community infrastructure projects, and improvements to
SFD's targeting system, are progressing well. The third, the transformation of its small enterprise program into a
financially viable business development organization, the SmaDl Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO), is subject to
some risk and will require continued attention, as a major failure would affect negatively the SFD as a whole. The SEDO
transition process is being supported under the Social Fund II project (Cr. 2865) and is to be completed by that project's
completion date (December 31, 2000). While financial viability and the quality of the existing portfolio are being
addressed, there remain two principal problems with the SEDO transition. First, there is a gap between the transition plan,
which is based on private sector banking principles, and implementation, which continues to adhere to a slower, less client-
oriented type of behavior. Second, SFD has established a guarantee fund for small enterprises, which, as set up, is likely to
exacerbate the moral hazard problem for participating banks, while not helping meet its stated objective - the disbursement
of more funds to participating banks. A revised action plan for SEDO transition in 1999 and 2000 was agreed with SFD in
December, 1998 and is being tracked carefully. The Bank has made five proposals to adapt the guarantee fund so that it is
more workable. The SFD is in the process of incorporating these. If there is insufficient progress by December, 1999, the
SEDO component of the Second Social Fund project should be restructured.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
1. Continued close cooperation with other public  M        Continuous consultation with partners and clear
agencies                                                   direction from top levels of Government.
2. SFD's mnanagement capacity.                    M        Recruitment of good staff on performance based
contracts with competitive salaries.
3. SFD's independence.                            M        Maintain support at top levels of Government, and
continue strong donor monitoring.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
4. Continued or improved competence of partner    N        Continuous capacity building and training for
NGOs, etc.                                                 partners and provision of funding for this activity.
5. Maintain support from central and local        M        Continuous demonstration of results on the ground;
Governments.                                               continue to alocate resources in an objective and
transparent way.
Overall Risk Rating                               M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: NA



Page 14
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) ratification of the Project Agreement;
(b) ratification of Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(c) the SFD would complete the strengthening of its financial management system in a manner satisfactory to IDA (see
Section E, para. 4(b)).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
(a) the SFD's Statutes, Bye-laws, and Statement of Policy would remain acceptable to IDA throughout the life of the
project;
(b) the SFD's Operational Manual would remain acceptable to IDA at all times and would be reviewed periodically with
IDA;
(c) the SFD would further strengthen its financial management system by May 31, 2000 to enable it to prepare quarterly
Project management reports acceptable to IDA;
(d) the SFD would conduct its operations in accordance with the agreed Environmental Management Plan;
(e) the Borrower would submit to IDA the following audit reports: (i) annual financial audit reports within six months of the
end of the fiscal year; and (ii) annual management audit reports within six months of the end of each fiscal year;
(f) the Borrower would carry out jointly with IDA a mid-term review not later than June 30, 2001, and implement the
recommendations of the review;
(g) the Borrower would carry out jointly with IDA an annual review of project implementation on the basis of
documentation to be provided by SFD, which will include the work program and budget for the following year. This review
will be done not later than November 30 each year;
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. Not applicable.
[I] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
Not applicable.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[XI The following items are lacking and are discussed under Credit conditions (Section G):
Financial management system does not fully comply with OP 10.02 and LACI requirements to enable PMR-based
disbursements.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X I This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task TaL  David Steel, MNSHD                            ecoLd:                Zafiris Tzannatos, MNSHD
Sector  retoJacques Baudouy, MNSHD                              irector       Khalid Ikram, MNCEG



Annex 1
Page I of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                         (Goal to Bank Mission)
i) To reduce unemployment.            i) Increase employment opportunities.  i) Government       i) Continued Govemrnment and donor
ii) To raise living standards of the poor.   ii) Improve access to services for the   employment and  support.
poor.                             unemployment data.       ii) Continued progress towards
ii) Living Standards     greater financial sustainability of
_____________________________  hMeasurement Surveys.        SFD programs.
Project Development Objective:        i) Number ofjobs created - 20,000   Reports from SFD MIS    (Objective to Goal)
The project objectives are to help create  temporary and 2,500 permanent.  system.               i) Continued  strong  Government
jobs and provide community           ii) Additional community           Other published reports.   support.
infrastructure and services through labor  infrastructure and/or services  Supervision missions.  ii) Lack of Government interference
intensive works.                         provided to communities in a                            in SFD's day to day operations.
sustainable manner (see Annex 4                         iii) SFD's capacity and staff quality
for targets).                                          remain the same or improved;
iii) Overall labor intensity ratio of 30
percent maintained.
Outputs:                                                                                         (Outputs to Objective)
i) Community services such as health,    Each category of projects has  Reports from SFD MIS    i) SFD's capacity to target, manage,
literacy, provided.               extensive quantitative indicators  system.                  disburse, and monitor and evaluate
ii) Environmental infrastructure (canal   ranging from numbers of certified  Other published reports.   remains strong.
covering & lining, water supply,  illiteracy program graduates to    Control group            ii) Capabilities of intermediary
sewage) projects completed.       kilometers of water pipes as well as    methodology evaluation    organizations remain adequate.
iii) Other infrastructure improvements eg.  labor intensity and unit cost data (see   Supervision mission.  iii) Beneficiary population
roads, building repair.           Annex 4 for further details).                               participation will be assured by
adoption SFD wide of Participatory
Rapid Appraisal (PRA) and similar
techniques by January 2000.



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Narrative Summary                    Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project Components/Sub-components:    i) Inputs: (resource allocation for each  i) SFD MIS and project    (Components to Outputs)
i) Labor Intensive Works (PWP)       component in US$ million- IDA    document reporting       i) availability of adequate resources.
ii) Community Dev. Program (CDP)     contribution in parentheses)      system.                 ii) continued or improved  SFD
PWP: 45.9 (33.0)              ii) supervision reports and  administration, competence of SFD
CDP: 19.1 (17.0)              MIS system.             staff, intermediary organizations, and
ii) adequate staffing in SFD and  iii) progress reports.  sub-contractors.
intermediary organizations                            iii) adherence to appropriate SFD
assessed by administrative cost to                    operational manuals and procedures.
project cost ratio norms of SFD                       iv)  availability  of  beneficiary
(6-8 percent).                                        contributions.
iii) adequate promotion activities
assessed by program category
norms (SFD has specific norms
for each program category).
iv) regular project supervision in
accordance with SFD standards
and norms. This will include
financial as well as physical
supervision under the FMS
Action Plan Improvements.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Project Description
The project would consist of two components: 1) a Public Works Program consisting of
labor intensive public works; and 2) a Community Development Program consisting of
community support infrastructure and services. The main objective of the project is to help create
employment opportunities and provide community infrastructure and services. It would create
about 20,000 temporary and 2,500 permanent jobs.
1) Component 1 - Public Works Program (PWP) US$45.9 million (total cost of component).
This component would be a continuation of the ongoing Public Works Program (PWP) of
the Social Fund for Development. The PWP funds small-scale public works programs in
partnership with communities and local government, which are executed by small local private
contractors. Projects funded in order of magnitude include construction, rehabilitation and repair
of irrigation and drainage canals, water supply and sewerage systems, rural roads and streets, and
public buildings, and maintenance including canal cleaning, public buildings, solid waste
collection, and disposal. The US$46 million component would fund about 14 percent of the
US$355.0 million pipeline of identified but unfunded projects in the PWP. This compares with a
funded program of US$95.0 million under the ongoing Second Project (1997-2000) supported
partly by IDA credit (Cr. 2865).
Targeting and Resource Allocation. The PWP targeting and resource allocation system has
been based on a social and economic study carried out in 1991. The allocation of funds was
based on population and size and ranking of rural areas using a combined poverty and
unemployment index.  This targeting system, which has had methodological and data
shortcomings, and has been amended from time to time, was also found to be not very practical as
a management tool. As a result PWP programs have tended to be overconcentrated both in poor
(Aswan) and wealthier (Suez) Governorates, although focused on poorer communities within all
Governorates. The targeting system is now being revised in two ways. At the overall level, the
Social Fund is conducting a Retargeting of Programs study between March and September, 1999.
This will update the combined poverty and unemployment index by incorporating the results of
the Priority Il, Integrated II and Community Needs II surveys, conducted over the last three years,
into the SFD targeting system. At the program level PWP (and CDP) are piloting a new targeting
system which uses the UNDP Human Resource Index (HRI). This targeting system maps
multiple HRI indicators down to the Governorate and some district levels currently. This work
will be continued until all districts are covered. The SFD is designing a matrix which matches
clusters of HRI indicators with a specific project intervention or set of interventions to help
improve those indicators. This is an operationally-based system, which will provide a quick
reference check on the combined index system and helps sharpen that system. PWP (and CDP)
managers and staff, including those in the 20 regional and 6 satellite offices, will be trained in the
use of the new system over the next year, as it is expanded from pilot to general use.
Phase I and 1I Results and Issues. Detailed job creation and physical achievement results
are provided and reviewed in Annex 4. In general PWP programs have been fairly successful in
meeting their primary objective: employment generation in poor rural communities. PWP has
also focused on the type of infrastructure created, and has placed greater emphasis on repair and
rehabilitation than maintenance as this was often the most effective way of meeting community
needs. This has affected the labor intensity of its programs, which can be characterized as



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
medium intensity, with labor costs averaging about 30 percent and varying from less than 20
percent for water supply and sewage networks to 50 percent for canal covering. This average
compares favorably with PWP's labor cost target of 25 percent for its programs. The average
man-month cost has been about US$220 (US$230 in Upper Egypt, US$210 in Lower Egypt and
US$255 in the Border Governorates). With an average cost of labor of approximately 30 percent,
monthly salaries paid under PWP programs have been in the range of US$65-72. This compares
favorably with the average monthly salary of unskilled and semi-skilled labor (US$60-74) in
Egypt. PWP contractors pay prevailing local market wage rates.
PWP has also achieved an average voluntary community contribution of 10 percent to
project costs, has stimulated the local small scale private contracting industry, and has been a
leader in incorporating environmental review into its appraisals. Its administrative costs have
been 2-4 percent of construction costs, which are a little below the typically accepted national
average of 5 percent.
The principal issues affecting PWP are operations and maintenance (O&M), targeting, and
extent of community participation in project selection and design. These issues have been
highlighted in several evaluations of the PWP. Originally PWP tried to ensure that O&M was
carried out by including it as a covenant in the Framework Agreement with the 'Sponsoring
Agency' and beneficiaries. Often these would be the Governorate level department of the
relevant line ministry. This did not work. Various other approaches such as voluntary
contributions from beneficiary communities for O&M and efforts to introduce cost-recovery
mechanisms also ran inta practical and legal problems. It also became clear that the O&M
problem was due in part to weak beneficiary involvement. The situation is being rectified under
Phase II through four initiatives (see Section D3 of the main report for details). In addition it has
introduced a program under which it finances the management costs of projects, and contracts
qualified managers, for communities which are willing to provide most of the project funds
themselves, but which lack contract management and O&M know-how as well as full financing.
PWP (and CDP) operating procedures are described in Annex 8.
2) Component 2 - Community Development Program (CDP) US$19.1 million (total cost of
component).
The main objective of this component is to support the development of community support
infrastructure and services, in partnership with local groups, to reduce poverty and improve the
quality of life, and to promote community and NGO participation. The most important of these
are education and training (about 25 percent), microenterprise (30 percent) and health (45
percent) programs and projects. The proposed project would not finance the microenterprise
program as that has adequate funding from other donors for the time being. The US$19.1 million
component would fund about 15 percent of the US$132 million pipeline of identified but
unfunded projects in the CDP. These numbers exclude microenterprise. This compares with a
funded program of US$180.0 million under the ongoing Second Project (1997-2000).
Targeting and Resource Allocation. The CDP targeting and resource allocation system
with its previously noted shortcomings has been the same as that used for the PWP. As a result
there is some evidence that CDP programs have tended to underspend in the poorer Governorates,
although they have been well targeted on poorer communities within all Governorates. A 1996
study of 5,124 beneficiaries in 62 projects covering both PWP and CDP showed that beneficiaries
were largely rural with characteristics such as low education levels, large family size, and high
average dependency ratio per household, which are indicative of poverty status. There was no



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
data collected on consumption and findings were not compared with national indicators, so it was
not possible to determine the overall incidence of SFD interventions.
Phase I and II Results and Issues. Detailed job creation and physical achievement results
are provided and reviewed in Annex 4. In general it is interesting to note that while employment
generation has not been an explicit objective of CDP programs, it has in fact generated more
employment with approximately half the funding than has PWP.  This is because its
microenterprise program has generated about two-thirds of the employment created. Absent this
program, the CDP and PWP are quite comparable. Thirty-seven percent of CDP beneficiaries
have been women, versus a target of 50 percent. Under the microenterprise program, 38 percent
have been women. Overall, administrative costs of CDP run at about 8-10 percent of costs.
Although this is higher than PWP, reflecting the differences in the management intensity of the
two programs, it compares favorably with international experience.
CDP is taking the following actions to improve participation of primary beneficiaries and
other affected groups. It is introducing Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA) techniques into two
Upper Egypt Govemorates (Qena and Aswan) through a training program for its own staff and
NGOs as well as a 'train the trainer' program for NGOs. The staff of 24 NGOs will be trained in
PRA in the first year and a further 32 will be reached in the second year. Four large regional
NGOs are being provided with 'train the trainer' training over the same period. PRA will be
expanded nationwide by March, 2000. CDP has also introduced as a standard practice
consultations with Village Popular Councils in the project area of each project proposed and will
rely on SFD regional office staff for advice and guidance on project packaging that achieves a
better balance between economy and efficiency. CDP is addressing links with ministries by
encouraging consultation between NGOs and the district offices of the Ministry of Social Affairs
(MOSA) during project preparation as well as the inclusion of a local MOSA representative on
project steering committees. However the decisive element in good coordination between SFD,
its implementing partners and ministries at the local level is sound leadership by Governors. The
SFD receives strong support from Egypt's 26 Governors for its programs. CDP local capacity
building programs have been limited by resources. However CDP includes funds for training of
all doctors and nurses operating rural health clinics in project areas. Likewise it funds training of
all teachers in its illiteracy programs, more than 10,000 to date.
CDP (and PWP) operating procedures and eligibility criteria for subprojects are described
in Annex 8.



Annex 3
Page 1 of I
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                Local           Foreisn         Total
-US S million--
Labor Intensive Works Program (PWP)               32.8             8.1            40.9
Community Development Program (CDP)               14.7             2.5            17.2
Total                                             47.5             10.6           58.1
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                          2.1              0.5            2.6
Price Contingencies                             3.4              0.9            4.2
Total Project Cost                                53.0            12.0           65.0
Figures have been rounded and may not add up.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 14
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Economic Analysis and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
A.   Economic Justification and Achievements to Date
1.   Links to the CAS. During Phases I and II, the SFD addressed three main objectives of the CAS: a)
poverty alleviation; b) employment creation; and c) private sector development. The SFD's targeted
groups include low-income fimilies in rural and impoverished areas, new graduates, unemployed youth,
displaced public enterprise workers and female headed households. The fund was designed to increase
access by these groups to basic services, to improve their productivity and enhance their opportunities for
gainful employment. The SFD is a central pillar in supporting the Egyptian Government's Agricultural
Strategy for the 1990s (it was prepared with the support of the World Bank and other donors in 1993).
This strategy identified the need to implement measures for the agricultural sector within the context of an
overall rural development strategy, to diversify rural activities and provide key services, in particular,
sustainable intensification of agricultural production and essential programs for health and education.
2.   Policy Environment. The Egyptian economy has dramatically improved in several critical aspects
since the inception of its structural adjustment program in 1991. Restoration of macroeconomic stability in
the 1990s has not been achieved at the expense of growth. GDP grew, in real terms, at an average rate of
2.1 percent over the period 1991-1997 and it has picked up at an average rate of 5 percent over the last
two years. Despite its constrained finances, the GOE has kept its long-standing commitment to provide its
citizens with basic needs through an array of social welfare programs. Expenditures on safety nets grew on
average by 3.4 percent in real terms per annum whereas total Government spending fell by 1.9 percent
during 1991-1997. The SFD was specifically created in 1991 to protect and improve the status of
vulnerable people during the period of economic adjustment. The GOE is firmly committed to provide a
policy environment to allow for a rapid sustainable growth to bring a solution to the pressing social and
employment problems that are the key challenges for the imnediate future. With this regard, the SFD is one
of the main tools through which the Government has initiated decentralization of decision making and
fostered community participation.
3.   Fiscal Impact. Thanks to sound and careful economic policies, the Egyptian fiscal deficit has moved
from the 1991 peak of 7 percent of GDP to less than 1 percent of GDP in 1998. In fiscal year 1997, the
GOE spent a total amount of US$1.4 billion (or 1.9 percent of GDP) in social protection programs. The
SFD accounted for 13 percent of this total, equivalent to 0.3 percent of GDP or 0.95 percent of total
Government expenditures, while 85 percent of total social protection expenditures was allocated through
the consumer food subsidy program. Fiscal projections do not change these proportions. In front of this
small fiscal impact, the SFD has been able to raise funds from 17 different donors mobilizing US$734
million in Phase I and US$704 million in Phase II. Over the years, SFD has reached about 25 million
beneficiaries and created about 200,000 temporary jobs and 350,000 permanent jobs'.
4.   Public/Private sector Role. The SFD helps support decentralization of decision making, and
promoting of private sector and NGOs' participation in the implementation of sub-projects and in their
operation and maintenance through contractual agreements with local communities. Public intervention in
collaboration with the private sector is warranted to: a) support a wide range of activities which are
selected and undertaken on the basis of their positive, public good externalities; b) target benefits to poor
I   These figures are updated as January 1999.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 14
communities unlikely to be reached by the private sector; and c) provide an impetus for new approaches for
poverty reduction to improve the infrastructure and the productivity of poor areas and enhance the
profitability for the private sector to develop there.
5.     Achievements to Date.  After a slow  start due to the need to find proper staff and put in place
proper procedures, the SFD has made considerable progress and has achieved significant results. Tables 1
and 2 show fund allocations and employment generation achieved by the SFD during Phases I and II. The
slow-down in the productive families program after 1993 was due to the need to properly assimilate the
large number of Gulf returnees coming back to Egypt in 1993. More modest and steady annual targets
have been established for Phase II.
6.     Temporary job figures are generally calculated by the SFD on a man/project basis while permanent
jobs data represent job opportunities created after the implementation of the project for the purpose of
operation and maintenance, hence regarded definitely as permanent2. The large number of permanent job
opportunities reported by CDP is mainly due to the productive family and the microcredit component.
There, each loan provided is, in fact, accounted as a permanent job opportunity created.
Table 1: Egypt Social Fund for Development Funds Allocation and Targets Achieved Through December 31, 1998
*Total Funding Phase I   *Total Funding Phase II          "Employment Opportunities
Program                   EGP Million USS Million  EGP Million US$ Million Temporary   Permanent Beneficiaries
Public Works                  642.36        188.92       315.15        92.69        33,084        4,704      27,042,789
Community Development    346.91            102.02        491.53        144.56       44,003       107,621      1,464,679
Enterprise Development    1,189.61         349.88       1,216.72      357.85        121,460      240,935      1,204,684
Human Resources DeveL         182.56        53.69        232.31        68.32         4,211        3,759        20,120
Institutional                 134.29        39.49        136.34        40.10          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
Development                __ _ _ _ _    __ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _
Total                     l 2,495.72       734.03   l 2,392.05        703.54       202,758       357,019    29,732,272
Source: SFD and Word Bank
* Total Funds allocated to programs
** Figures are cumulative of Phases I and ]I; temporary job opportunities are normally calculated by programs on a man/project
basis and as such are reported in the table;' for more details see note 1.
7.     Calculations based on table 1 and taking into account forecasts and estimations, show that the SFD
has created jobs (temporary and permanent) at an average cost which ranges from a peak of EGP 24,926
(US$7,331) in PWP (because of higher investment cost in equipment and materials) to EGP 3,270
(US$962) in CDP. The average total cost per job created in the SFD as whole is of approximately EGP
6,172 (US$1,815). However, if the man/subproject classification is used to measure PWP temporary job
creation costs, the program  amount drops to EGP 6,779 (US$1,994) and total cost for job created by the
2   opportunities are reported by the SFD in man/project figures. Though differences might be small, projects have a different average duration in the
different programs, i.e. 24 months for PWP and 18 months for CDP. Generally speaking, job opportunities are calculated on site by means of
daily logs that register laborers' names and wages. They are then calculated on a man/day basis, which is a direct translation of the site daily
logs. In order to aggregate man/day job opportunities into more manageable numbers, such figures are divided by 25 working days per month
to transform them into man/month job opportunities. The man job opportunities are typically used by the project implementation units in the
field and in-house within the various programs, to gauge the employment generation output and compare it to man/month job opportunities
agreed upon in every project framework agreement In order to compare job opportunities among the various SFD programs man/month figures
are normally aggregate in man/project ones. As for PWP two types of temporary job classifications are used: man project and man subproject
The man/project terminology denotes a job opportunity which lasted for the entire duration of the project which is typically, in PWP, 24 months
and is obtained dividing the project man/month opportunities by 24. Nevertheless, considering that a job opportunity which lasts for 24 months
is viewed by some as a permanent job, measuring the cost of temporary job creation in terms of man/project figures was regarded by many as
inappropriate. Since any project is typically divided into several subprojects, PWP considered that, with regard to job creation cost measuring
methods, a temporary job opportunity is acually an individual who works on a subproject (which lasts on average 6 months) from beginning to
end. Thus, man/month job opportunities aggregated on site are divided by six, to calculate the real temporary job opportunities. As for CDP
man/month figures are simply translated into man/project figures accordingto the average duration of a CDP project which is 18 months and no
subproject calculation is considered.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 14
SFD  decreases to EGP 5,185 (US$1,525).3 These costs for job creation compare favorably with
international standards regardless of which method is used to estimate PWP costs and shows that the SFD
efficiently meets its employment generation target. The comparison between Phases I and II suggests that,
as for PWP, substantial gains in competitiveness and efficiency might have occurred in managing the
program. CDP differences can be explained through adjustments in the composition of the program's
portfolios.
Table 2: Cost per Job Created
Phase I (1993-1997)
Programs          Funds (US$ mil.) 1/ Total Jobs 2/ Total Jobs3/ Cost per Job 2/ Cost per Job 3/
PWP                    256.5          34,986      128,637       7,331          1,994
CDP                   138.5          144,038      144,038        962            962
EDP                   475.0          212,664      212,664  _   2,234           2,234
Total                  870.0         391,688      485,339       2,221          1,793
Phase II (1997-2000)
Programs          Funds (US$ mil.j I/ Total Jobs 2/ Total Jobs3/ Cost per Job 2/ Cost Per Job 3/
PWP                    92.7       1  22,370       82,370        4,144          1,125
CDP                    144.6          56,973      56,973        2,537          2,537
EDP                   357.9          336,014      336,014       1,065          1,065
Total                  595.1      J  415,357      475,357        1,433    j    1,252
Phase I and 11 (1993-2000)
Programs          Funds (US$ mil.) 1/ Total Jobs 2/ Total Jobs3/ Cost per Job 2/ Cost Per Job 3/
PWP                    349.2      J  57,356       211,007       6,088          1,655
CDP                   283.1       |  201,011      201,011       1,408          1,408
EDP                   832.9          548,678      548,678        1,518         1,518
Total                 1465.1         807,045      960,696        1,815         1,525
Source: SFD and World Bank estimates
1/ Values are in 1997 US$
2/ Figures are cumulative of permanent and temporary jobs on a man/project basis
3/ Temporary jobs in PWP have been calculated on a man/sub-project basis.
3Hluman Resources and Institutional Development Programs are not included in these calculations.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 14
Table 3: Targets Achieved During SFD Phase I and Phase II
Item                                                Average  1993   1994   1995   1996  a 1997  1998   Total
Unit Cost   _
__JEGP [
A Public Works Program
1. Enviromnental Infastructure                      _                      7                =      =
a. Wastewater networks in kn.                       450,000      -      6      12     16    42     42      118
b. Wastewater treatment plants (# of subproj.)    1,000,000     _-       -      2      2     1               5- 
c.Wastewater pur  stations (# of subproj.)          900,000      -      1       1      2      -      1       5
d. Canal covering in km.                            740,000      4     14      16     26    43      13     116
e. Canal protection in km.                          480,000     27     55      92     60    40      10     284
f. Channel maintenance in km.                         5,000      -       -   600  2,832   408        -   3,840
g. Other project (# of subproj.) 1/                  20,000     38     98      11 _    -      -    20      167
2. Potable Water
a Networks in kn                                     48,000     84    557    833  1,296   757    352   3,879
b. Elevated and ground tanks (units)                335,000      -      8     44      98    44     25      219
c. Artesian wells (units)                            30,000      2     48     64      72    60     27      273
d. Other projects (# of subproj.) 2/                 20,000      2     21      95      -   13      20      151
3. Rural Roads                                                                              _
a. Road construction in km                          200,000     15    136    266    587   165      85   1,254
b. Road improvement in km                            40,000      5     20       -     55      -      -      80
4. Building Refurbishment                                              _             _
a. Clinics (units                                    70,000     12     38      74    147    68      6      345
b. Youth centers (units)                             60,000      1     76      91    116    41     50      375
c. Schools (units)                                   80,000     27    200    146      57    16      10     456
d. Social centers (units)                            80,000     11      6      14      8     3       2      44
e. Other projects (# of subprojects) 3/              60,000      1    26       32     68            4      131
R Community Development Pra
Item                                                 Average  1993  1994  1995  1996   1997  1998   Total
Unit Cost
EGP _.
a. Number of health clinics equipped 4/              400,000     17    11    18    17   186   124          373
b. Number of awareness campaigns 5/                    2,000    127   209   233    127   210        90     996
c. Number of health personnel trained 6/               2,000    28    28   764       28    28  2,600   3,476
2. Education & Training                                                                            _
a. Number of classrooms established 7/                            -      7   180       -      -      -    187
b. Number of illiteracy classes established            1,600  8,740 10,488  8,041  1,450  4,924  1,604  35,247
c. Number of individuals trained to teach illiteracy classes  100  8,740 10,488  8,041  1,619  4,180  1,604  34,672
d. Number of beneficiaries receiving vocational training  2,500   329  2,013  6,027    329  2,013    268  10,979
e. Number of training workshops equipped             100,000     12      9     7      12      5      3      48
3. Productive Families Loan Program                                 _              _
a. Number of Loan Recipients                             n.a. 24,626  1,472  2,153  8,711  5,944  4,000  46,906
b. Number of loans 8/                                    n.a. 24,594  1,488  2,124  8,705  5,900  4,000  46,811
4. NGOs Capacity Building 
a. Upgrading technical & admin. Capacity                 n.a.     -      -      -    57       -    41       98
5. Support to Youth and Community Centers 9/                         _        _
a. Community centers equipped                                     8      6     2       -      -      -      16
b. Youth centers equipped                                        20     40    31       -      -      -      91
6. Environment                                                                                          I =   _
a. Number of environmental projects 10/           |  472,000     14    49       0      2      3      7      75



Annex 4
Page 5 of 14
Table 3 (Continued)
C Enlerpnse D     pm         a-
1. Contracted amount (EGP Million)                 not           488    257   401    238   404   225   2,013
lapplicable
2. Disbursemcnt to beneficiaries (EGP. Million)                   92   395   226   227    278   321   1,539
3. Number of enterprises                            not        8,694 19,717 11,939 12,919 17,123 14,118  84,510
ase IH Tagets 40,000)                                ap le    -
4. Number of entrepreneurs                          not        8,694 22,389 13,950 14,117 18,411 15,400  92,961
applicable                       _
5. Average Loan Size                                    16,882 10.639 20,390 18,929 17,571 16,235  22,73
6. Employment opportunities
a. Number of permanent empI. Opp. I11/                       22,604 58,211 36,270 36,429 48,141 40,043 241,691
b. Number of temporary empl OP.                  1            8,694 22,385 13,950 14,11  18,411 15,400  92,961
7. Total permanent equivalent 12/                             25,5026    40,9141.058 54,354 _    45,17  272,658
8. Average cost perjob                                       1 3,627  6,016  5,49       1  4,849  7,105    -
D Human Raseoucn Devd ew   A    a 7 m
1. No. of workers receivg early retirement        I      n.a.    -|       4      -  1,6471 9,316 1,98451 30,808
2. No. of trainers                                        n.a.     -      -      -|   501   100      90    240
3. No. oftrainees                                         na.   518  1,2301  6351 2,3921 2,9001 15,3501 23,025
Notes:
* 1997 achievements are cumulative of 1997 phase I and II
1/ Filing ponds, irrigation structure maintenance.
2/  Pump room, water station fence, water intake upgrading and tank renovation.
3/  Vetrinary units, nursery and public sevice buildings.
4/ Number of health clinics includes clinics totally or partially equipped.
5/ Number of awareness campaigns includes health, social and environmental awareness.
6/ Number of health personnel trained includes physicians, nurses, and extension workers in health.
71  Number of classrooms established: for some classes CDP provides furniture and refurbishment and for other classes.
CDP only furnishes.
8/  lhe maximum loan size allowed to CDP loans is EGP7,000 and the averge is EGPI,200.
9/ These represent activities for which projects are still under contracting.
1O/ Environmental projects include latrines, garbage collection, drainage, backfilling, pest spraying and tree planting.
11/ Permanent jobs at 2.6xnumber of eareprenu.
12/ 3 temporary jobs are equivalent to I permanent job.
8.    The data in Table 3 show that SFD has made considerable progress. The unit costs data show also
that the SFD is quite efficient in performing its tasks and achieving substantial outputs.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 14
B.    Economic Analysis
9.    Formal targeting indicators developed for Phases II and III are given in the following Table 4.
Table 4: SFD Phases II and m Monitoring Targets
Item                                                                       [
Planned                                          1997-2000    1997    19981    1999    2000    2001    2002
A Public Works Program
1. Environmental Infrastructure
a. Wastewater Networks in Kilometers                    60      42      42        18      12       15      15
b. Wastewater Treatment Plants (# of sub-projects)       8       1 -               3       2      2.5     2.5
c. Wastewater Purnp Stations (# of sub-projects)         8 -              1        2       2        2       2
d. Canal Covering inKilometers                          50      43       13       25      17       21      21
e. Canal Protection in Kilometers                       60      40       10       25      16    20.5    20.5
2. Potable Water
a. Networks in Kilometers                            1,200     757     352       600     437   518.5   518.5
b. Elevated and Ground Tanks                            60      44      25        28      20       24      24
c. Artesian Wells                                       60      60      27        30      29    29.5    29.5
3. Rural Roads
a. Road Construction in Kilometers                     500     165      85       240     180     210      210
b. Road Improvement in Kilometers                       40    -                    4       5      4.5     4.5
4. Building Refurbishment
a. Clinics (umts)                                       40      68       6        12       9    10.5    10.5
b. Youth Centers (wiits)                                60      41      50        23      16    19.5    19.5
c. Schools (units)                                      20      16       105               2      3.5     3.5
d. Social Centers (Units)                               40       3       2        15       9       12      12
R Community Development Program
1. Health Services
a. No. of Health Clinics rehab./estab/ equipped        750     186      124      130     130      130     130
b. No. of Health Awareness Campaigns                 1,500     210      90       300     300      300     300
c. No. of Health Personnel Trained                   7,100      28   2,600    2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200
2. Education and Training
a. No. of Illiteracy Classes established            17,528   4,924   1,604    5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500
b. No. of Individuals Trained to Teach Illiteracy Classes    18,400   4,180   1,604    5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500
c. No. of Beneficiaries Receiving Vocational Training  4,800   2,013   268       700     700      700     700
d. No. of Training Workshops Equipped                   30       5        3        4       4        4       4
3. Productive Families (Micro-enterprises) Loan Program           I                          I
a. Number of Loan Recipients                        15,9001  5,900   4,000    3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000
b. Average Loan Size                                 1,200|                        _                 _
C Enterprise Development Programn
1. Contracted amount (EGP. Million)              n.a.          404      225    1,200   1,3801  1,290   1,290
2. Disbursement to beneficiaries (EGP Million)   n.a.           278     321      800      920     860     860
3. Number of enterprises                             40,000  17,123  14,118   27,000  31,050  29,025  29,025
4. Number of entrepreneurs                           45,000  18,411   15,400   29,970  34,466  32,218  3,2218
5. Employment opportunities                                        I l
a. Number of permanent empl. Opp.                          48,1411 40,043   76,572  88,058| 82,315  82,315
b. Number of temporary empl. Opp.                          18,411  15,400   22,972  26,417 24,694.5 24,694.5
6. Total permanent equivalent                                54,354  45,177   83,463  95,983  89,723  89,723
7. Average Loan size (EGP)                      |n.a         16,235  22,7351  29,630  34,074  31,,852   31852



Annex 4
Page 7 of 14
Table 4 (Continued)
D. Human Resources Development Program
1. No. of workers receiving early retirement      39,161   9,316  19,845    9,000   1,000   5,000   5,000
2. No. of workers receiving training to start new jobs  8,842  500   2,242    4,100   2,000   3,050   3,050
3. No. of trainers                           -       500     100      90      260       50     155     155
4. No. of_trainees                                 31,750   2,900  15,350    8,000   5,500   6,750   6,750
E Overall Job Creation Targets
1. Public Works Program
a. Number of Temporary Employment Opportunities    20,000    915   3,661    8,814   6,610   7,712   7,712
b. Number of Permanent Employment Opportunities     2,370    187    748        835     600   7,17.5  7,17.5
2. Community Development Program
a. Number of Temporary Jobs in Man/Project        34,224     845   3,379   19,000  11,000  15,000  15,000
b. Number of Permanent Jobs Created                22,767     735   3,014   12,000   7,000   9,500   9,500
3. Enterprise Development Program
a. Number of Temporary Employment Opportunities            18,411  15,400   22,972  26,417 2,4694.5 24,694.5
b. Number of Permanent Employment Opportunities            48,141  40,043   76,572  88,058  82,315  82,315
4. Human Resources Development Program
a. Number of Temporary Employment Opportunities    11,964    317   1,270    7,157   3,220  5,188.5  5,188.5
b. Number of Permanent Employment Opportunities    22,054   2,478   9,912    5,369   4,295   4,832   4,832
TOTAL NUMBER OF JOBS                         230,160  55,859  115,282 114,985 115,133 115,133
TOTAL POPULATION GETTING ADDITIONAL INCOME                202,894  45,075   96,564  98,878  97,721  97,721
Table 5: SFD Phase II Monitoring Indicators
Item                                                   Indicative Targets   Actual IDA Funded       Actual Total
1997-2000       as of December 31,  Phase II as of December
1998                31, 1998
A Public Works Program
1. Environmental Infrastructure                                          l
a. Wastewater Networks in Kilometers                                  60                   13                     20
b. Wastewater Treatment Plants (# of sub-projects)                     8 1           _
c. Wastewater Pump Stations (# of sub-projects)                        8                    .                      1
d. Canal Covering in Kilometers                                       50                    2                     11
e. Canal Protection in Kilometers                                     60                    6                     12
2. Potable Water
a. Networks in Kilometers                                           1,200                 231                    350
b. Elevated and Ground Tanks                                          60                   18                     24
c. Artesian Wells                                                     60                   20                     30
3. Rural Roads
a. Road Construction in Kilometers                                   500                  210                    170
b. Road Improvement in Kilometers                                     40 C                    _
4. Building Refurbishment
a. Clinics (units)                                                    40                    2                      6
b. Youth Centers (units)                                              60                   50                     51
c. Schools (units)                                                    20                    2                     10
d. Social Centers (units)                                             40                    2                      2



Annex 4
Page 8 of 14
Table 5 (Continued)
-  Commuity Development Prox, am
1. Health Services
a. No. of Health Clinics rehab./estab/ equipped                        750                   98                       310
b. No. of Health Awareness Campaigns                                  1,500                 215                       300
c. No. of Health Personnel Trained                                   7,100                  598                     2,628
2. Education and Training                                                    __
of illiteracy Classes established                                   17,528                  655                     6,528
b. No. of Individuals Trained to Teach flhiteracy Classes            18,400                 403                     5,784
c. No. of Beneficiaries Receiving Vocational Training                4,800                  775                     2,281
d. No. of Training Workshops Equipped                                   30                     4                        8
3. Productive Families (Micro-enterprises) Loan Program
a. Number of Loan Recipients                          |                n.a.l  l2,095                                9,900
b. Average Loan Size                                                  1,2001
C Enterprise Development Pro,a                       __
1. Contracted amount (EGP Million)                                                            98                      629
2. Disbursement to beneficiaries (EGP Million)                                                92                      599
3. Number of Enterprises                                            40,000                 6,489                    31,241
4. Number of Enterpreneurs                                          45,000                 6,489                    33,811
5. % of Female among Small Entrepreneurs                           25-30%                   30%1                      33%
D. Human Resources Development Program
1. No. of workers getting early retirement                          39,1611                8,3581                  29,161
2. No. of workers receiving training to start new jobs               8,842]                 1,797 ________   ,4
E Overall Job Creation Targets
1. Public Works Program                               l
a. Number of Permanent Employment Opportunities                                             558                       935
b. Number of Temporary Employment Opportunities                                            2,732                    4,576
2. Community Development Program                      l
a. Number of Permanent Employment Opportunities                                             871                     3,767
b. Number of Temporary Employment Opportunities                                              977                    4,224
3. Enterprise Development Program                     l
a. Number of Permanent Employment Opportunities                                           16,871                   88,184
b. Number of Temporary Employment Opportunities                                            6,489                   33,811
TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT JOBS                                                            18,300                    92,886
TOTAL NUMBER OF TEMPORARYJOBS                                                             10,198                    42,611
TOTAL NUMBER OF JOBS                                                                      21,699                   107,089
TOTAL POPULATION GETTING ADDITIONAL INCOME                                                18,300                    92,886
10.          Economic Evaluation: Economic analysis  is carried out to trace the real contribution of a
project to the welfare of society and assess its economic viability. Evaluation consists in calculating ERR
and cost effectiveness ratios, which detennine unit costs per output to compare them with sector standards
or with costs in similar projects. Investment in social programs is justified on the assumption that all social
programs have a positive return for the society and the country as a whole. However rate of returns and
outputs of  such investments are notoriously difficult to measure. Monetary terms and therefore mere
financial analysis is not a solid ground for decision making in the field. As for the SFD, it is difficult to
calculate an ERR for the overall program, given the variety of projects and the difficulty of quantifying
benefits of some of its activities such as upgrading public health, environment, job-training, etc.
Nevertheless, the SFD attempts to quantify benefits wherever possible using willingness to pay (for
community services); estimates of travel costs savings (roads); rental values (community buildings); and
enhanced prospects for earnings (technical training and enterprise development). A minimum threshold rate
of return of 12 percent is normally required.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 14
11.   Table 5 shows the phasing of the different costs and benefits for every thousand Egytian Pounds of
investment. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) analysis excludes health and literacy projects as well as
institutional development projects. It also excludes micro-enterprises even though they are subjected to
financial sustainability tests. The ERR analysis therefore covers almost 75 percent of project funds and can
be considered a good representation of the project.
12.   Based on a sample of projects financed during Phase I and extrapolating rates of return across the
entire program, the rate of return for the activities with quantifiable benefits which account for some 75
percent of project cost, is estimated to be 21 percent. Sensitivity analysis shows these expected rates of
return are relatively robust. A sensitivity test was carried out by reducing benefits by 20 percent, while
constant cost showed the ERR to be about 15 percent.
Table 6: Costs and Benefits per 1000 EGP of Investment and its Phasing
INVESTMENT COSTS         RlECURRENT COSTS
Item               Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4+ Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4+
A. Public Works Program                                       _
1. Environmental Infrastructure     500   500                    0     0    15      30
2. Potable Water                    500   500                                15     30
3. Rural Roads                      500   500                    0     0    50    100
4. Building Refurbishment           500   500                    0     0    15      30
B. Community Development Program       II
1. Health Services                 1,000                             loo   200    300
2. Education & Training            1,000                             100   200    300
3. Productive Families Loan Program    1,000  -                      100  1,200   1,500
C. Enterprise Development Program  1,000                             300   400    400
D. Human Resources Program         l,o                               loo 5 2001   100
E. Institutional Development       1,000o            -               100   200    300
BENEFITS                NET BENEFITS
YearI Year2 Year3 Year4+ YearI Year2 Year3 Year4+
A. Public Works Program                             I
1. Environmental Infrastructure                  N/A    N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A
2. Potable Water                                 110    220  -500  -500    95    190
3. Rural Roads                                   150    300  -500  -500C  100    200
4. Building Refurbishment                        100    200  -500  -500    85    170
B. Community Development Program
1. Health Services                 N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
2. Education & Training            N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
3. Productive Families Loan Program       N/A  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
C. Enterprise Development Program          250   500    800 -1,000  -150           400
D. Human Resources Program                 200   300    300 -1,000   100   100    200
E. Institutional Development       N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
The following sections focus on the economic analysis of the PWP and CDP. While in the public
infrastructure investments some economic conclusions are achievable with CDP programs, given the nature
of projects implemented, only some additional general evaluations are possible.



Annex 4
Page 10 of 14
13.  Economic Analysis for the Public Works Program. The PWP is the social fund's largest program
which specifically targets the poor. Its expenditures were about 26 percent of total funds allocated in Phase
I whereas, in Phase II, they have dropped to about 7.5 percent of total funds. One of PWP's goal is to
provide employment in areas with high poverty and unemployment. Special attention is given to the
creation of seasonal employment - particularly in rural areas. This is especially relevant due to the many
rural working poor who suffer from large fluctuations in income and periods of unemployment during the
agricultural year. The PWP has created about 12,000 man-years in temporary positions over the last two
years and, under favorable assumptions on disbursement and completion of Phase II, it is possible to
estimate that by year 2000 PWP will have provided an average amount of 133,000 persons per year with
jobs (temporary and permanent) over the period 1993-2000.
14.  Labor costs of PWP projects range from 25 percent for potable water projects up to even 50 percent
for canal covering. This is comparable to international norms where the wage bill is 30 to 60 percent of
total program expenditures, and indicates that projects are definitely labor based. Total number of jobs
created and funds allocated over Phases I and II suggest that the average wage transfer per man-year was
about US$1,107 (assuming an average wage component of 35 percent and 1997 prices) which is in line
with the GDP per capita estimations over the same period (US$1,200) and shows that PWP transfers
income to the poor in quite an efficient manner.
15.  ERR and Benefit Cost Ratio analysis are carried out on a regular basis within PWP and by private
consultants who evaluate the feasibility and the impact of proposed and implemented projects. A sample of
these analyses has been selected and ERR have been calculated. On average, projects funded by PWP alone
and implemented through private contractors have an average ERR of 20.4 percent and an average Cost
Benefit Ratio of 2.5. Table 7 shows average ERR and Cost Benefit ratios by some investment sectors:
Table 7: Economic Rate of Return and Benefit Cost Ratio in PWP
Public Building  Environment and Health    Canal   Roads     Municipal Water
ERR           17                24               17           21            23
C/B Ratio      2.03               3.01             2.79        1.53           2.92
Impact assessments completed by same private consultants largely confirm these calculations and the
incremental welfare achieved in the areas where projects are implemented. A new impact assessment study
which covers nine Governorates is being finalized by PWP. Notwithstanding the difficulty to evaluate
benefits, it is clear that PWP substantially added value for the country as whole by the social and economic
viewpoint.
16.  Cost effectiveness analysis. Table 3 above includes the average unit cost sustained by the PWP to
achieve a determinant level of output. These cost estimations are based on a detailed analysis of unit cost
productions carried out by the same PWP. Data compare well with standard benchmark and with similar
programs managed by either entities. In an attempt to evaluate cost of infrastructure projects implemented
through labor based methods, PWP r..omponent unit prices of labor based projects have been compared
against current market prices. Information has been collected from selected Governorates where similar
projects are being implemented. The data requested included unit prices of roads, potable water, public
buildings, irrigation, waste water, etc., in projects recently constructed under typical market conditions, i.e.
achieving the highest quality possible while simultaneously maximizing contractor profits through the
utilization of equipment and offering market labor wages. The unit prices compiled indicated that the
average unit price of 1 km. of roads, under similar site and construction conditions, is almost 8 percent
higher when implemented under SFD funding than projects typically funded by sponsoring agencies.
Similarly, potable water projects prices are 5 percent higher than the ones funded by the sponsoring



Annex 4
Page 11 of 14
agencies, while public buildings projects funded by the SFD are 6 percent less than average market prices.
Other project components showed minor price discrepancies that do not warrant comparative studies. It is
possible to explain and justify these differences on the following elements: a) cost of roads and potable
water projects are higher because of the following factors: i) more stringent quality control measures
applied by well trained project management staff and intermediary agencies personnel and higher labor
wages; ii) adherence to tight pre-planned implementation and disbursement schedules; iii) variably, projects
funded through other sources and bid at the same time affect the awarding prices of SFD projects. b)
Public Building costs are lower due to the fact that such types of projects do not require specialized
experienced contractors like roads and potable water, hence, qualified contractors are abundant resulting in
fierce competition and therefore, reducing awarded prices. In addition, construction of simple buildings is a
second trade to some villagers, as most of them built their own houses and usually help others renovate
their own. Needless to say, SFD projects have helped launch the businesses of many a small entrepreneur
(as a contractor) over rural Egypt. PWP public buildings subprojects were their first projects and they were
willing to win a contract at below market price.
Table 8: Unit Costs Comparison (EGP)
Under SFD-PWP       Competitors      % difference
Road (Km)                                    200,000            185,000            8
Potable Water (1 m pipeline PVC)
8"                                           85                 81               5
6"                                           60                 58               4
4"                                           43                 42               3
Artesian Wells (8" by 50 m)                  26,000             24,000             8
Water Tanks (100 Cu m)                       200,000            190,000            5
Irrigation (Canal Covering wI pipes)___________________
50 cm                                        200                200               0
55-80 cm                                     275                275               0
85-100 cm                                    450                450               0
105 - 120 cm                                 615                600               2
Public Building (m)                           255                270              -6
Source: SFD and WB staff estimates
17.  The Community Development Program. CDP was specifically designed to finance improvements
in: a) productive activities focusing on income and employment generation; and b) social development
activities to improve the delivery of essential services to poor communities. These objectives have been
achieved to a large extent, with CDP evolving to respond to community needs, and, in some instances, by
using innovative approaches. CDP focuses on the provision of health, education and training services to
poor population groups. Benefits from these programs have not been quantified and therefore calculation of
ERR and Cost-Benefit Ratios is particularly difficult. However, what is clear is that CDP projects have
been able to distribute resources to communities previously under-served by government agencies or
private-sector organizations. Monitoring indicators show that CDP achieved substantial results in
rehabilitation and equipment of clinics and classrooms, conducting health awareness campaigns and
establishing literacy classes, and in training health personnel and teachers for literacy classes. Unit costs
are reported in Table 3 above according to the different programs, but unfortunately no real cost
effectiveness analysis has been possible because of the lack of information on alternatives and comparable
programs in the country. Such an analysis is highly recommended to be included among CDP supervision
and monitoring activities. While emphasis was put on quick disbursement, supervision and monitoring
during Phase I, impact evaluation and beneficiary assessment were also crucial achievements for CDP
under Phase II.



Annex 4
Page 12 of 14
18.  Monitoring and Evaluations under the proposed project. Selected project monitoring indicators
are provided in Table 9. Because of the SFD's demand-driven nature, actual outputs are always subject to
change and might differ from estimations based on previous experiences. In addition to the indicators
reported im Tables 4 and 9, the SFD's monitoring system generates a wide range of information which
provides SFD's management and donors with information necessary to measure progress, targeting and
efficiency. Impact monitoring will be done through surveys, beneficiary assessments, and complementary
studies to provide continuous feedback on SFD's impact on beneficiaries. To ensure impartiality, these
surveys will be done by independent consulting firms. Environmental reporting is not supported by the
Social Fund's MIS. In the new MIS, now under development, capacity to support an environmental
performance monitoring plan is required to ensure that mitigation measures are adequately implemented
and effective in reducing impacts according to design. The monitoring program will clearly indicate the
linkages between impacts, indicators for measurement, methods to be used, frequency of measurements,
detection limits (when appropriate), and threshold values. This plan should include a description of how
regular field site reviews of selected schemes will be undertaken. The new EDU will act as a centralized
environmental unit to oversee SFD's environmental efforts. The role of the unit is still under design and a
draft inception report for the unit has been completed. The Social Fund will provide a detailed mission
statement with the functions of the TDC and description of staff roles and responsibilities. Each unit (PWP,
CDP, SEDO, EDU, TDC) will present an annual work plan that identifies its environmental responsibilities
and outputs. The work plan will identify all costs for undertaking these functions.
Table 9: Selected Monitoring Indicators
Item                                     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Networks in Kilometers                      757      352      600      437      400      400
Road Tmprovemcnt in Kilometers                                  4        5        5        5
No. of Health Awareness Campaigns           210       90      300      300      300      300
No. of People in adult literacy Classes   4,924    1,604    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000
Number of Loan Recipients                 5,944    4,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Number of Small Entrepreneurs helped      3,000    7,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
% of Female among Small Entrepreneurs       26       28        30      30        30       30
Temporary Jobs in person years       1
Number of Permanent Jobs              l        l
19.    Current developments. Given its nature and mandate, the SFD focused on indicators like numbers
of projects executed, cumulative disbursements, numbers of beneficiaries reached, number of loans given,
and quantity of infrastructure and services delivered. However, as the institution is moving through the
initial emerging phase/start-up period, closer scrutiny of benefits and impacts is required. There is a need
for better accuracy and reliability enumerating on beneficiaries within the current information system and
to better identify the expected benefits of project within the ex-ante appraisal system. To measure impact,
solid evaluation methodology is needed and some of it can be built into a more complete management
information system. Impact evaluations should be carried out independently with appropriate sampling
frameworks, random selection, blending of quantitative and qualitative information and so forth. Finally,
such an enhancement will also imply maximizing the spill-over effects of SFD's investments.
20.    Current responsibility for monitoring and evaluation is with the Projects and Planning Department
(PPD). It performs this task through a computer based Management Information System (MIS) designed to
monitor the physical and financial progress of sub-project implementation and evaluate SFD's overall
performance. It aims at providing transparency and accountability of SFD activities, maintaining data on
targeting, and facilitating contracting and payment. MIS-generated performance reports are an integral
part of the monthly report submitted by SFD management to the Board of Directors (BOD) for their
review, and the quarterly reports and annual reports submitted to donors.



Annex 4
Page 13 of 14
21.   The MIS is currently being revamped through a sophisticated software technology program which
will improve its capacity to track SFD activities through the sub-project cycle, including sub-project data,
and to identify cost overruns and potential bottlenecks. Modifications will be aimed at enhancing
monitoring and allowing for a widespread desaggregation of information. Specifically, improvements are
aimed at: (a) enhancing information dissemination on approval and disbursements at the SFD Secretariat
level; and (b) introducing a more participatory approach in sub-project monitoring, by actively involving
sponsoring agencies (SAs) in the process. This will allow for minimal gaps in data reporting and recording
requirements, which may lead to delays and discrepancies, which undermine the usefulness of the system.
22.   In order to address the first issue, the Program Planning Department (PPD) will be responsible for
collecting information from the various operational departments (i.e., Finance, Community Development,
Public Works, Enterprise Development) and generating detailed infornation on approval and disbursement
rates. This will facilitate and enhance SFD's tracking system and thus allow for a more transparent and
accountable assessment of financial flows required for day-to-day management decision-making.
23.   The revision is important as it provides the baseline information for beneficiary and impact
assessments, and provides the bulk of the input for MIS project portfolio tracking. Currently, gaps exist in
data reporting and recording requirements, which have led to an ineffective and inaccurate application of
the monitoring system. On one hand, output indicators covering the number of beneficiaries and jobs
created represent quite crude data and provide limited information about the quality or value of an
individual project. On the other hand, impact assessments take place but on limited quantitative criteria.
24.   In order to resolve this shortcoming, and to be consistent with SFD's participatory nature, SAs will
receive proper training which will enable them to become actively involved in monitoring progress on sub-
projects output delivered indicators.  Information pertaining to outcome indicators and beneficiary
assessments will be contracted out to independent consulting firms. Information generated from the various
indicators will be forwarded to the PPD at SFD on a quarterly basis, which will allow for the generation of
a quarterly report following SFD spot checks. This approach ensures consistency with the intended use of
resource allocation and will safeguard SFD's role of poverty and unemployment reduction.
25.   In the case where SAs lack the technical or financial skills required for monitoring output delivered
indicators, SFD regional staff will provide training and/or assistance to fill the managerial and financial
gaps, and work in collaboration with SAs to fulfill their mandate. This approach will serve as a
springboard for systematizing the delivery of training to address common constraints encountered in
monitoring, and enhance information dissemination, as well as prioritization and identification of
community needs. More importantly, this approach will assist in developing local capacity.
26.   A strengthening of ex-post evaluation, to be carried out by private firms and NGOs including
beneficiary assessment is being proposed and will provide critical information relating to inputs required to
improve intervention with the target population and determine the relationship between currently utilized
methods in sub-project cycle as well as beneficiary satisfaction. Improving client relations and enhancing
communications between SFD and its partners is actively being pursued by a separate unit "the
Intemational Cooperation Affairs and Information for Public Relations unit". Staff from this unit will be
assigned to all regional and satellite offices and would report directly to the Managing Director. The unit
would address problems arising from poor communication and recommend corrective actions, as well as
organize information dissemination campaigns.
27.  It is worth emphasizing that to implement the monitoring activity at all three levels (implementation
progress, outcome achievement, and target effectiveness), there is a clear need for the baseline surveys
which have to date not taken place. Without such surveys, the measurement of progress throughout the



Annex 4
Page 14 of 14
project's cycle is extremely difficult. It is important to clearly specify and detail project objectives to ensure
that evaluations can assess project performance. Additionally, there is a need to assess the quality of
different approaches to delivering a similar product such as medical equipment supplies, eradication of
illiteracy programs and training programs. This would be complemented by the introduction of basic
average financial ratio indicators (such as cost per beneficiary/service delivered, etc.) which will highlight
differences in actual expenditures from the average trend line and point out the need for explanations.
28.  Ex-ante control component evaluation under proposed project. To help strengthen monitoring
and evaluation and further project design, SFD will do a comprehensive impact evaluation study of Public
Works and Community Development Programs. During negotiations the process and timetable to complete
a terms of reference for M&E under the project were agreed. IDA also agreed to assist in drafting the
TOR. The SFD agreed to commit the needed funding (up to US$1.0 million) from other donors sources.
During negotiations the Government of the Netherlands indicated an interest in supporting M&E. The
evaluation will be completed by end of year 2002.



Annex 5
Page 1 of I
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 2000-2002
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period          Operational period
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
Project Costs
Investment Costs          20.1   22.3   22.6
Recurrent Costs            0.0    0.5    2.0    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6
Total                  24.1   26.8   27.1
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                       77%    77%    80%      0%      0%      0%     0%     0%
Government                13%    13%    10%
Central
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries   10%    10%    10%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Total
Main assumptions:
The investment costs are based on average unit cost provided by the Social Fund for Development (SFD)
based on the Phases I and II figures:
Average Unit Costs:
EGP 200,000/kilometer for road construction
EGP 40,000/kilometer for road improvement
EGP 48,000/kilometer for potable water networks
EGP 30,000/unit for artesian wells
EGP 335,000/unit for elevated and ground tanks
EGP 740,000/kilometer for canal covering
EGP 480,000/kdlometer for canal protection
EGP 1,500/illiteracy projects
EGP 1,500/ reproductive health projects
EGP 1,000/community infrastructure projects
The recurrent cost per project amounts to 10 percent which is allocated to operations and maintenance.
However, at present, a study is being carried out on the sustainability of Operations and Maintenance
(O&M) costs, and guidelines will be issued following the completion of this study. All Phase II projects
will be complemented with an additional 10 percent provided by the SFD, which will increase the O&M
budget to 20 percent per project.
Beneficiaries provide a total of about 20 percent in the costs of the project, of which 10 percent is for the
investment costs, and 8-10 percent for O&M.
The operational period consists of 10 percent of total project cost (US$65.0 million) with SFD providing
an additional 10 percent contribution to the Maintenance Fund for the lI five years following the end of
the contractor's guarantee.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 13
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Overview
Introduction. The Government of Egypt Social Fund for Development (SFD) is fairly advanced in
management support and awareness for environmental sustainability and its programming to identify
environmental issues and to take action to reduce negative impacts. The SFD has demonstrated a
strong commitment to developing measures to eliminate, offset or reduce environmental impacts to
acceptable levels during project design, implementation and operation. A review of the current SFD
management and technical procedures related to environmental issues was undertaken as part of the
overall Bank appraisal process. To its credit, SFD management has recognized the need to focus
more attention on environmental issues and has recently created the Environmental Development
Unit (EDU) which will serve to coordinate throughout all SFD components environmental
assessment, enviromnental training and other environmental issues. Another positive management
matter is the existence of the Technology and Development Center (TDC) which provides several
training and environmental awareness activities for the SFD.
Environmental Issues. The SFD project consists of a large number of diverse schemes under several
components. In most instances, the schemes have no negative environmental impacts and contribute
to an overall positive environmental impact by improving environmental and human health
conditions. Furthermore, this project is not anticipated to require any involuntary resettlement or to
damage archaeological and/or historical sites. The project has been assigned Environmental Category
B in accordance with World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, "Environmental Assessment due to the
potential adverse environmental impacts associated with certain types of infrastructure, community
development, and small enterprise schemes and activities".
National Environmental Regulations. The Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA), which
is the national environmental regulatory agency, has prepared "Guidelines for Egyptian Impact
Assessment" (EIA Guidelines) in Arabic and English. These EIA Guidelines were developed to assist
authorities and licensing agencies implement Articles of Law 4 of 1994 concerned with EIA
requirements of new projects. Law 4 states that the environmental impact of certain establishments or
projects must be evaluated before any construction works are initiated or a license is issued by a
competent administrative authority or licensing authority. Establishments or projects are subject to
EIA based upon four main principles: (1) type of activity performed by the establishment; (2) extent
of natural resources exploited; (3) location of the establishment; and (4) type of energy used to
operate the establishment. Projects are classified into three groups according to severity of
environmental impacts:
*  White list projects for establishment/projects with minor environmental impact
*  Grey list projects for establishments/projects which may result in substantial environmental
impact
*  Black list projects for establishments/projects which may require complete EIA due to their
potential impact
The White and Grey establishments/projects must submit Environmental Screening Form "A" and
Environmental Screening Form "B" respectively. Many of the SFD schemes fall into the lists of



Annex 6
Page 2 of 13
white and grey projects. Special mention needs to be made for sanitary landfills and municipal waste
treatment facilities - schemes within the SFD portfolio under PWP and CDP that are considered grey
projects. Environmental Guidelines for Environmental Screening Form B have been issued by the
Environmental Management Sector of EEAA. EEAA and the SFD have recently signed a
Memorandum of Understanding to build bridges between the two agencies.
Governorate Environmental Action Plans. EEAA through its Support for Environmental
Assessment and Management Program (SEAM) is generating Environmental Action Plans (EAP) for
each governorate. These identify priority issues, the actions needed to reach these goals and
institutional strengthening and capacity building initiatives. There are Governorate Environmental
Management Units (EMUs) and the EEAA is in the process of establishing regional branch offices
that would have environmental assessment responsibilities including project review and approval.
One goal of the EAP is to establish effective monitoring and enforcement of environmental laws and
the development of environmental performance measures and incentives at the governorate level.
SFD regularly consults with governorate representatives and corresponding authorities for PWP,
CDP and SEDO projects as part of the SFD project cycle.
The Ongoing EA Process for Phase II SFD Components
The SFD has developed a set of environmental screening guidelines that are used to varying
degrees in certain components. The environmental screening system developed by PWP, uses three
classifications, similar to the EEAA, according to project type, size, severity and magnitude. In
addition, environmental audits are mentioned but no specifications are provided concerning the
circumstances requiring such actions. Category A projects require a full environmental impact
assessment study. These projects require an intensive examination of the potential environmental
impact undertaken by a team of multidisciplinary environmental specialists. Category B projects
undergo a more limited environmental analysis to determine what impact and mitigation measures
are required and may require studies. Category A or B projects may require an audit for projects that
finance expansion or rehabilitation of existing facilities. Projects that do not require an assessment or
an audit are classified as Category C.
According to SFD written guidelines, the environmental assessment reports and audits are to be
reviewed by SFD as part of project preparation before a project is submitted for approval. However,
there is no central coordinating unit to undertake this function in the SFD. Furthermore,
specifications for supervision and evaluation are not well defined. In the PWP sponsored consultants'
reports reviewed, general comments are provided concerning evaluation of completed projects.
These comments do not constitute a standardized evaluation process.
It is also important to consider each of the two major SFD components to understand the
environmental assessment process. The SEDO component is not being financed under the proposed
project but is listed for future reference under "Aspects related to SEDO" at the end of this section.
PWP. The PWP projects are designed and implemented at the Governorate level, combining a
portfolio of schemes into one "project". A consulting firm is hired (the SFD currently uses 9 firms
from a prequalified short list), for each set of projects within the Governorate, to undertake an
appraisal that includes technical, social, environmental and economic studies. These schemes consist
of a variety of projects (e.g., potable water, road improvement, canal covering, wastewater collection,
building refurbishment). Environmental assessment summaries are included in these reports, per
requirements of the SFD. The EA includes summary information about potential negative impacts
and some insight into mitigating measures. Often these analyses are very generic and not project
specific. When checklists are used, they are not necessarily standardized. The evaluation process is



Annex 6
Page 3 of 13
also not well standardized, and there is no indication that recommendations become incorporated into
future project design, construction and operation.
CDP CDP officers are very interested in and knowledgeable about environmental issues. They
indicated that although there is a high level of environmental awareness and interest amongst the
officers of CDP, no formal environmental guidelines or procedures currently exist and, subsequently,
CDP consultants are not asked to consider environmental issues. In several instances, PWP staff are
consulted to assist CDP with environmental issues. The CDP has an interest in developing an
environmental training program for its own offices, regional office staff, and collaborating NGOs.
CDP senior officers have proposed that environmental guidelines be developed on two levels:
strategic, for SFD management; and operational, for program and regional office staff. The
operational guidelines should be detailed and should contain forms and checklists, which can be
easily understood and applied. The guidelines should be oriented toward field work rather than office
work.
The Technology and Development Center of the SFD has a mandate to provide technical support
to small industries. The center has prepared several project profiles, each outlining a type of small
industrial project that a potential beneficiary could be interested in pursuing. The profiles each
contain a full description of the project in both technical (engineering) and financial terms (feasibility
study). One of the center's duties is to assist small enterprises funded by the SFD to comply with
environmental regulations. As an effort in this direction, the center has commissioned a study to
perform inspections of small enterprises to identify common environmental issues in three
governorates: Cairo, Alexandria, and Ismailia. On average, 70 projects are visited in each
governorate. The TDC also conducts environmental training through a small- enterprise-oriented
training program in four govemorates. The one-day program covered such issues as pollution
prevention, waste recycling and reuse, and environmental legislation.
Elements of the Environmental Management Plan
Some of the SFD projects may have adverse human health and/or environmental impacts if not
properly designed or operated. For this reason the borrower will: (i) develop an environmental
screening process applicable to all components to identify potential impacts and undertake mitigation
measures to reduce such impacts; (ii) implement a practical monitoring program to determine the
effectiveness and timeliness of these interventions; and (iii) engage in capacity building and training
activities to improve environmental awareness and sensitivity among the project staff, counterpart
agencies and beneficiaries
Environmental Screening
In the current SFD project cycle, for the most part, there is no systematic environmental review
process. Although the PWP has introduced environmental assessments in their work as part of the
consultants' feasibility studies and evaluations, these actions are not part of a standardized process.
Apart from this, no environmental issues are formally considered in the other SFD components
project cycle. A review of the operations manuals of CDP and EDP confirmed this view.
In the Social Fund Support Project, the SFD needs to capitalize on its past experience with
understanding environmental issues in its portfolio and begin to develop a better environmental
review process. This process divides subproject into two groups: (i) those that will have no
significant adverse environmental consequences; and (ii) those that potentially may have some
significant impacts and are summarized in Box 1. It is sometimes possible that following a desk
review a site-specific environmental review will be undertaken by appropriate SFD staff,
beneficiaries or consultants.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 13
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ ... .....
*      Subproj.N.ect esk Review               Site Speciric Envi .....e.tal. Review.
Objective:                                     Objective:
Ensure that environmental issues are    Ensure that environmental impacts are
considered as part of design.           reduced or minimized at site.
Actions:                                       Actions:
*  Screen proposals for details concerning design  &  Review the current environmental
that meet criteria.                            condition at the site.
*  Provide technical assistance directly or enlist  *  Assess the potential environmental
support of specialists to help project        impact associated with the proposed
formulator or contractors.                     scheme.
*  Recommend Site Specific Review when         *  Identify mitigation measures in
significance or magnitude of scheme impacts    construction and operation.
is high.
Responsible Party                              Responsible Party
SFD PWP/CDP/SEDO staff.                       Environmental Consultants.
SFD EDU/TDC staff.                             EDU/TDC staff.
SFD Regional Offices
Sponsoring/Implementing Agencies
In general, two concerns need to be addressed with SFD projects - project design anid
environmentally sustainable operation. The SFD will provide guidance for PWP and CDP on
engineering design criteria that would incorporate the mitigating measures resulting from the
Environmental Assessment (EA) illustrated in Table 1.
All proposals submitted to the SFD's PWP and CDP will need to have a clear process of
environmental screening for potential environmental impact. The checklists that have been used in
the past by PWP need to be reviewed and if necessary revised as indicated in Table 3 below. The
guidelines currently prepared by EEAA should be consulted to develop the revised SFD
environmental review procedures. These environmental reviews would be prepared by the project
sponsor/beneficiary with technical assistance from the SFD and contain, at minimum, the following
standardized information:
*  Overview of the current environmental conditions at the site with development of baseline data.
*  Assessment of potential adverse environmental and human health impacts associated with design,
construction and operation of the project.
*  Mitigation measures to reduce the above impacts.
*  Identification of responsible parties for ensuring implementation of mitigation and monitoring
measures.
*  Consultation with beneficiaries and stakeholders during the scoping and after preparation of the
EA.
In general the following project schemes would be subject to these environmental reviews:
(a) Solid waste collection
(b) Landfills
(c) Wastewater treatment



Annex 6
Page 5 ofl3
(d) Potable water supply and distribution
(e) Rehabilitation and pavement of rural roads
(f) Canal coverings
Additional types of project schemes may be added during the course of project implementation and
their inclusion to this list would be by agreement between representatives of the implementing
agency, EEAA and the Bank.
Few of the sub-borrowers in Egypt have environmental capabilities, or are concerned with
environmental aspects of the projects and investments they finance. It is unrealistic to expect these
sub-borrowers to regulate and enforce environmental laws. It is the responsibility of the SFD to
develop practical EA procedures, checklists and guidelines for the sub-borrowers and assist them in
implementing these measures over the duration of the next funding cycle.
Examples of important considerations for this sub-borrower EA process include:
Industrial Safety. The SFD introduces new borrowers to industrial safety issues during the initial
training programs. Most clients visited were aware of industrial safety rules and regulations which
are part of the government requirements for issuing an operational permit. However, for the most
part, these rules and regulations are not fully applied. The SFD would ask the Industrial Safety
Authority to ensure that industrial safety measures are properly addresses.
Recycling. Recycling of manufacturing waste was found to be a common practice. This was
primarily motivated by economic rather than environmental concerns. Nevertheless, this is a positive
phenomenon that should be encouraged by the SFD.
Environmental Pollution. Several of the SFD beneficiaries emit air and water pollutants, affecting
both the workplace and the environment at large. This issue will be addressed during the EA or audit
preparation. Air emissions and water discharges should be in accordance with the Executive
Regulations of Law #4 of 1994. Some SFD officers interviewed claimed that pollution related issues
were mainly the concern of the Government and not the SFD. While this is technically correct, the
SFD could play an important role in this regard.
Child Labor. The issue of using child labor that does not conform to World Bank and Egyptian Law
is another concern. A closer examination of this issue is required.
The borrower will develop this environmental review guidance for this component and solicit
agreement from EEAA and submit the final procedures to IDA for approval.
Training and Institutional Considerations
Environmental Training for SFD Management and Staff. Management and Staff of the SFD do
not go through any standardized SFD-wide training programs when they join the SFD. The officers
receive on the job training. There are various SFD-sponsored environmental training programs,
which have been provided to SFD staff members. CDP and PWP do not currently provide their
beneficiaries with environment-related training A series of environmental awareness and training
initiatives will improve the understanding of environmental issues associated with SFD projects.
Target audiences include personnel from SFD, beneficiaries, contractors and selected NGOs. Past
SFD sponsored environmental training, often using Egyptian environmental specialists, has been well
received and considered beneficial. Such activities should be expanded.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 13
In addition, PWP, EDU, and the Technology Support Center are currently planning several such
initiatives. The PWP is planning a one or two-day workshop on environment to be offered to SFD
central office staff, NGOs and regional office staff members. The workshop is to be held in Cairo and
taught by SFD contractors and EEAA officials. The Technology Development Center of the SFD
also offers a series of one-day environmental courses to SFD staff members. The EDU also intends to
offer such courses. These plans should be better coordinated and based on the customized needs of
each SFD operation.
Topics covered should include:
Legal requirements of Law 4 and applications of the Executive Regulations
EIA techniques
Screening projects for environmental review
Use of practical checklists
Best environmental practices in design and implementation of projects
Effective implementation of mitigation measures
Project supervision
Monitoring and evaluation
Training for SFD Clients (Governorate, NGOs and local authorities). Training would be
provided through 2 day workshops for local government personnel, NGOs, and other local authorities
from communities. The contents will be similar to the training for SFD staff but will be customized to
serve participants in regions of the country. It is expected that these workshops will be provided in at
least 4 locations per year outside of Cairo.
Develop best practices for solid waste. Several studies have been conducted on solid waste (SW) in
Egypt by various bodies (EEAA, The Ministry of Scientific Research, etc.) Although many technical
options are discussed in the studies, the SW problem persists. This is due to a host of financial,
institutional and legal issues. The demand for these services is high throughout the country and the
SFD, especially via the CDP. The SFD through the CDP wants to have the technical capability of
delivering enviromnentally sound solid waste collection and management schemes with emphasis on
Operation and Maintenance including cost recovery strategies. Indications are that technical solutions
exist in the country, and these can be made available as standard models for future implementation.
The SFD will undertake a consultancy to develop a practical guide for the design, construction and
operation of rural based waste collection and management systems of the project. These guidelines
will also include provisions for public consultation and stakeholder participation during project
design and implementation.
Institutional Arrangements
The SFD has recently established an Environmental Development Unit (EDU) to act as a centralized
environmental unit to oversee SFD environmental efforts. The unit will be responsible for: screening
subproject; reviewing EAs; consulting with EEAA and seek further concurrence from concerned
authorities; recommending project approval; and supervising the monitoring process as appropriate
for environmental issues. This unit will implement better environmental assessment tools, undertake
special environmental studies, and introduce standard environmental evaluation measures throughout
the SFD. In accordance with the agreed Action Plan, SFD will provide a detailed mission statement
and description of staff roles and responsibilities. The functions of the TDC will be provided as well
as descriptions of staff roles and responsibilities. Each unit (PWP, CDP, SEDO, EDU, TDC) will
present an annual work plan that identifies its responsibilities and outputs for the EMP. The Action
Plan identifies all costs for undertaking these functions.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 13
Monitoring and Supervision
The SFD is currently undergoing a major overhaul of its M & E system. This is in recognition of the
current difficulties of applying the existing M & E system. The new system will streamline and
standardize the M & E operations. As it currently stands, no environmental issues are directly
addressed within the system. The department manager in charge of developing the M & E system
expressed interest in adding a set of environmental indicators that will be developed by EDU, in
consultation with the Bank. They will need to be carefully selected so as to be easy to use and
simple. The SFD will incorporate environmental indicators into the new M & E system in accordance
with the Action Plan.
An environmental performance monitoring plan is needed to ensure that mitigation measures are
adequately implemented and effective in reducing impacts according to design. The monitoring
program will clearly indicate the linkages between impacts, indicators for measurement, methods to
be used, frequency of measurements, detection limits (when appropriate), and threshold values. This
plan will include a description of how regular field site reviews of selected schemes will be
undertaken. A preliminary Monitoring Plan is provided in Table 2.
A project supervision plan will include the participation of an environmental specialist during the
project launching workshop and regularly during the first year supervision missions, during the Mid-
Term Review and in the Implementation Completion Report. This specialist will review progress in
implementation of the EMP as well as environmental reviews/EAs for selected subproject schemes.
These supervision missions will include review of the performance and institutional development of
the EDU, TDC, implementation of the environmental review process, extent of the effectiveness of
mitigatory and monitoring measures, and progress in increasing awareness and environmental
concern throughout the SFD and with its sub-borrowers and beneficiaries.
Environment Management Plan (EMP) Implementation and Cost Estimates
The EMP implementation would be integrated into the overall schedule for the proposed Project and
a timetable for key activities is provided in Table 3. It is currently estimated that EMP
implementation would cost US$406,000 for staff, consultants, training activities and the required
studies as presented in Table 4. The budget and implementation schedule for the EMP were discussed
and agreed upon during the appraisal mission. They were finalized and formally agreed upon at
negotiations.
Aspects related to SEDO
As noted earlier in this annex (p.2), the Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO)
program of the SFD is not being financed under the proposed project. However this Environment
Management Plan includes a review of SEDO and makes recommendations to improve
environmental assessment practices. This is for two reasons. First, SFD requested inclusion of
SEDO in the EMP. Second, the SEDO component is the largest SFD program and is currently
subject to some risk and will require continued and sustained attention. The failure of this
program, including environmental problems, would negatively affect the SFD as a whole, and
hence is classified as a "moderate" risk to the implementation of the proposed project (see PAD,
Section Fl).
Currently, there is no formal, standardized environmental screening process for the projects approved
under SEDO. Nonetheless, there is awareness within the SFD that environmental screening needs to
be incorporated. New enterprise applicants to the SFD are required to attend an orientation training
during which the beneficiaries are given an overview of the SFD loan process and requirements. The



Annex 6
Page 8 of 13
materials are quite comprehensive and address many of the issues commonly encountered by a small
business owner. Even though a chapter entitled "the environment" is included in the manual, it deals
with general legal requirements and licenses. This chapter should be renamed to better reflect its
actual contents - industrial safety. There is ample opportunity to introduce more environmental issues
during this training to address the key environmental concerns of industrial safety, waste
management, and environmental pollution.
In practice, SEDO can be considered as a Financial Intermediary (FI) that uses project sponsors (the
lending institution financing a project with FI loans). The lending institutions include commercial and
development banks and institutions (e.g., Alexandria Bank, Banque du Caire, Bank of Alexandria,
Misr Bank, National Bank of Egypt, Nasser Bank, PBDAC, etc.). World Bank policy requires that
FIs verify that subprojects they invest in meet the environmental requirements of the country and are
consistent with IDA's environmental policies. OP 4.01 stipulates that FIs must ensure that the project
sponsors (or "sub-borrowers") carry out an appropriate EA. This means that FIs must screen projects
and ensure they conform to EA requirements before approving the loans.
Aggregating the diverse collection of SEDO projects into general classes for environmental screening
will be a large challenge. A checklist of environmental issues will need to be developed for each
general "type" of project, so that either the lending institution or regional SFD authority can screen
these projects. A set of recommended mitigation measures will also need to be developed for those
projects having adverse environmental impacts.
A mechanism for tracking such environmental screening will have to be implemented based on the
SEDO database. Currently, monthly reports primarily focus on financial indicators (e.g. loans
disbursed, repayments by beneficiaries, loans in arrears, etc.) Data is generated when a beneficiary
first approaches the SFD for funding. As the beneficiary goes through the successive steps of
receiving and using SFD funds, more data is generated. The field office reports the data monthly to
the central SEDO SFD office based on the baseline data generated from standardized beneficiary data
sheets. This data focuses mostly on financial indicators, although other data is also included, such as
the name of beneficiaries and type of business. Nine general sector codes are used. The data is
reported so that the main classifications are by sector, not by activity. However, the data can be
manipulated using a database program (Access) to produce any number of report formats that could
track specific project activity types that would have corresponding screening checklists of
environmental concerns. The key point is that the future ability to screen these diverse activities for
environmental concerns will have to be done by establishing a better activity classification and
coding system that becomes uniform throughout all regions.
Training for Financial Intermediaries. SEDO FIs and beneficiaries do not receive sufficient
environmental training. Discussions with SEDO officials and regional staff has revealed that the
SEDO training course offered to new beneficiaries includes a module on industrial safety, but not
environment. The modular design of the training program facilitates the addition of environment as a
topic to be covered in the program. The TDC and EDU would develop this training material as part
of the agreed Action Plan.
The SFD will need to take the lead and develop an environmental training program for its sub-
borrowers. The topics covered shall include:
Overview of environmental assessment, environmental audit, and compliance evaluation.
Use of dangerous and hazardous substances.
Occupational health and safety.
Pollution prevention, waste minimization and pollution control
Solid and hazardous waste management.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 13
Pilot Partnership with EEAA Environmental Management Units. As a part of its collaboration
with the EEAA, the SFD will support the strengthening of two of EEAA's Govemorate level
Environmental Management Units (EMU) in two poor Governorates in which the SFD is active.
This has been agreed in principle and is included in the Action Plan. The exact modalities will be
worked out as part of the detailed agreement between EEAA and the SFD, which will give substance
to the EEAA-SFD Protocol Agreement.
Public Awareness Program. The SFD will develop new materials to expand its environmental
public awareness campaigns. The EDU will develop these and a dissemination program in
collaboration with the SFD's Public Relations Department, which has strong capabilities in the
production and dissemination of public relations materials and programs.
Table 1
Checklist of Potential Adverse Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures
Seepage of contaminants into  Adequate landfill siting study.  EDU/
Solid Waste     aquifers.                     Ensure adequate drainage and   Construction
Collection and   Particulate contamination from    leachate control.        contractors
Landfills       burning.                      Prohibit burning.
Increase in haze and smog.   Consider waste stream separation
Unpleasant odors.            activities.
Marred landscape near landfill.   Prohibit medical and toxic
Garbage littered about in    wastes.
community.                   Spread and cover garbage at
Methane and other toxic      landfill.
chemicals emitted.           Ensure safety procedures for
Disease transmission from    workers.
animal and insect vectors.   Train local workers for landfill
Safety and health hazard from  functions.
medical and industrial wastes.    Education and awareness program
Traditional garbage sorters and   on solid waste for community.
scavengers uncontrolled.



Annex 6
Page 10 of 13
Cross contamination (sewage   Proper disposal of construction    EDU/
Wastewater       and water lines due to pressure    wastes.                    Construction
Treatment       differential and leakage).     Proper siting of pumping stations  contractors
Improper disposal of          and treatment facility.
construction debris.          Proper design capacity and
Worker accidents during       treatment works, disposal and
construction, especially in   reuse systems.
trenching operations.         Incorporate safety provisions in
Introduction of hazardous     design, construction, operating
substances into system.       procedure and training.
Health hazard from sewer      Routine sewer inspection for
overflow and backups.         illegal connections and
Degradation of receiving water   obstructions.
quality.                      Sewer cleaning maintenance
Odors and noise from treatment   program.
process.                      Alternative power supply at pump
stations.
Public education campaign to
prevent disposal of solid waste
into sewers.
Increased water consumption   Delivery service and distribution   EDU/
Potable Water leads to overloading of septic  network integrated with health    Private Labs
Supply and  tanks and water table rise.    awareness.
Distribution  Health impacts from           Monitor water quality (pTl, TSS,
contamination to water system.   fecal coliforms, BOD).
Contamination from hazardous    Proper collection and disposal of  EDU/
Rehabilitation    substances, spills.          lubricants, road material and   Construction
and Pavement   Construction impacts streams    waste.                          contractors
of Rural Roads  and aquatic ecosystems.        Avoid disturbance to streams.
Damage to sparse vegetation.  Divert water during construction.
Damage to historical/cultural  Maintain or restore vegetation.
sites.                        Identify critical habitat sites and
Increased sedimentation       avoid disturbance.
Degradation of soil cover.    If necessary, reroute sections.
Maintain drainage
ditches/channels.
Disturbance to residents during    Minimize heavy construction use  EDU/
Canal       construction.                 to periods of day.              Construction
Coverings    Use of canals for disposal of  Establish health and sanitation  contractors
waste transferred to another  awareness program with local
location.                     residents including solid waste
collection.



Annex 6
Page 11 of 13
Table 2: Subprojects Monitoring Plan
Garbage is collected on regular  EDU                            Semi-annual
Solid Waste     basis.                                                           assessment
Collection and   Proper collection containers in
Landfills       place and functional.
Sanitation and health awareness
program functioning.
Landfill operational and facility
able to handle waste loads.
Separation of waste stream occurs.
Workers use masks and gloves.
No indication of seepage and
leaching.
Lines are clear and operating.   PWP                            Semi-annual
Wastewater      Pumping stations clean and adjacent                              assessment
Treatment       area not degraded.
Treatment facility not distributing
adjacent neighbors.
Water quality monitoring of treated
water (p, fecal coliforms, BOD)
Distribution network without leaks.  PWP                        Semi-annual
Potable Water   Communal water stands have no                                    assessment
Supply and      standing water and proper drainage.
Distribution    Water quality monitoring records
available (pH, fecal coliforms,
BOD).
FWk                            Semi-annual
Rehabilitation    Operating drainage works.                                      assessment
and Pavement   Works cleaned and maintained.
of Rural Roads  No visible degradation to critical
habitats, streams, vegetation.
PWP                            Semi-annual
Canal           Alternative waste disposal available                             assessment
Coverings       to residents.
Health and sanitation awareness
campaign in place.



Annex 6
Page 12 of 13
Table 3 - EMP Implementation Schedule
Environmental                l    l_ 
Screening                   __
Revise checklists_
Develop procedures
PWP
CDP
Training
Development of
training material
Conduct training
a) SFD
mgmt/staff
b) Financial
intermediaries
c) SFD clients
Solid Waste Technical
Study, including high
level follow up
Monitoring Plan and
Supervision
a) Develop
indicators, auditing
and tracking
systems
b) Conduct
evaluations
Develop SFD Program
(CDP, PWP, SEDO)
environmental
strategies
Complete             -
establishment of
Environmental
Development Unit
Pilot partnership with
EEAA Env. Mgmt.
Units in 2 poor
Governorates
Public Awareness                                             -
Program                                  _                             - _    _    _



Annex 6
Page 13 of 13
Table 4 - EMP Cost Estimates
Total      Foreign      Local
Environmental Expert hired   48 MM    US$1500 MM           72           0.0        72
for 4 years
Revise checklists
Develop procedures
Develop training
material
Coordinate training
Coordinate monitoring
plan
Participate in evaluation
Consultants for conducting
training:
a) Design training               US$2,000 MM
programs                                                15           0          15
b)SFD mgmt./staff                US$10,000 per/yr
training                                               40           20          20
(2 workshops/yr.)
c) Financial                     US$10,000             40           20          20
intermediaries                   per/yr
(2 workshops/yr.)                                      40          20           20
d) SFD Clients (2
workshops/yr.)                   US$10,000 per/yr
Solid Waste Technical               US$2,000 MM            24          12          12
Study,
Consultant to develop               US$2,000 MM            40          10          30
monitoring indicators,
auditing and tracking
system
SFD Program (CDP, PWP,                                     55           0          55
SEDO) environmental
strategies                                                                .
Complete establishment of                                  50                      50
Environmental
Development Unit
Pilot partnership with                                     20           0          20
EEAA Env. Mgmt. Units in
2 poor Governorates                                     _
Public Awareness Program                                   10           0          10
TOTAL                   _______ ____________              406          82         324



Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Executive Summary
1.   Existing Literature on the SFD (CDP and PWP Components)
Assessments on the Egyptian SFD have been limited in number and scope, especially in the first
phase. They mainly focused on implementation progress and standard estimated output such as
number of beneficiaries and jobs created. This was consistent with the initial nature of the SFD as an
emergency project. Within these parameters, the SFD has been judged successful in rapidly
channeling resources to deprived areas, local administrations and NGOs.
The SFD is in the process of redefining its mandate, from emergency to long-term institution for
sustainable development and poverty reduction. Consequently, recent assessments have focused more
systematically on impact and sustainability. Emerging problematic issues include: (i) targeting at
Governorate level and within Governorates; (ii) limited community input in project identification and
design; (iii) limited project sustainability; and (iv) overlapping between SFD and Government roles.
Several innovative activities are already underway to address these problems, such as the testing of
cost-recovery systems for local projects, the training of NGOs and local contractors, the assistance to
the Government in the design of new systems for health delivery and vocational training, the
strengthening of regional offices, and the finalization of a Participatory Poverty Study to improve
strategies and targeting tools.
Although the quality of assessments has markedly improved, there is still limited information on
beneficiaries' profiles, how projects affect their lives, and the process by which projects are selected
and implemented. Projects are mostly analyzed in isolation. The Social Assessment (SA) aims to
address two programmatic questions: (i) the relevance of CDP-PWP projects given social and
economic needs of deprived communities; and (ii) the roles played by the SFD, local communities,
and GOE in projects, and how this affects participation and sustainability.
SFD's efforts to improve its monitoring system should focus on establishing baseline data and
parameters to assess the social impact of projects. There is also need for more information on
beneficiaries' profile, and qualitative data on local participatory mechanisms and social and
economic problems of target communities.
2.   Emerging Socio-Economic Problems and the Relevance of SFD Projects
Egypt has achieved macro-economic stabilization and resumed growth. This should allow more
investment in human development and poverty reduction. In the transition, disadvantaged groups are
suffering from growing unemployment, less resources for public services, agriculture privatization,
price increases and exclusion from the formal market.
* Slow down and setbacks in some human development indicators. The SFD is tackling this
area by providing disadvantaged communities with basic services and infrastructures. Assessments



Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
are needed on the impact of SFD projects on "at risk" areas such as low school attendance and
children malnutrition. Increased coordination with GOE and donors is essential to cover the needs of
growing communities.
a Persisting unemployment and under employment. The PWP mainly created temporary jobs
for males in rural areas. CDP micro-credit was successful in creating permanent jobs in urban areas,
while, in rural areas, it helped maintain existing jobs. In both programs, it is not clear whether
beneficiaries are the poorest in their communities. The SFD should define whether job creation is the
main objective of micro-credit, and explore other ways to create permanent income generation
opportunities through PWP and CDP.
*  Emerging income poverty in metropolitan areas. An increasing number of the poor can be
found in the economic informal sector and squatter areas of large cities. CDP and PWP are
presently more active in rural Governorates. Urban areas should receive a higher priority in
selection criteria
*  Deterioration of livelihood for poor farmers. PWP-CDP affect farmers lives through Nile
banks protection, rural roads, irrigation schemes, and temporary income generation. There is a
need to expand SFD portfolio to improve the livelihood of small and landless farmers, for
instance by providing insurance schemes, transportation and market outlets.
*  Exclusion of the most vulnerable groups. Many SFD projects do not reach those who cannot
work or afford service fees. Ultra-poor groups need cash transfers and other safety nets. The SFD
should define how to address their demands, either directly (ex: helping people to pay for water
connections) or through advocacy.
*  Poor quality of services. The SFD has been active in up-grading health services and assisting
health reform programs. It is strengthening the environmental soundness of projects. However,
the limited number of staff to carry out supervision, and the mandate to create short-term, low
skill jobs can undermine the quality of infrastructures and services. SFD activities to improve the
quality of public education are limited. The SFD should continue its efforts to train and monitor
local contractors and other implementing agencies. It should strengthen the cooperation with
MOE to improve the quality of education. In literacy activities, the focus should be on teaching
quality rather than temporary job creation.
*  Lack of capabilities and limited access to markets. Disadvantaged groups lack the knowledge,
skills, infornation to benefit from existing services and opportunities. These areas are not
addressed by the SFD, but represent relevant needs. The SFD should engage in social
intermediation activities including, for instance, employment agencies, legal aid and information,
assistance in bureaucratic procedures, vocational training and re-training.
*  SFD and social justice. Causes of poverty include unequal access to resources, for instance, to
land. The poor value social justice as much as material achievements. It was not in the original
SFD mandate to address structural causes of poverty, but the institution aims to strengthen its
advocacy role. The SFD should use the Participatory Poverty Study, the SA, and other tools to
recommend anti-poverty policies to Government and donors.
3.    Participation and Social Inclusion in SFD Projects
3.1    Egyptian poverty correlates to perceptions of powerlessness, and the demand for dignity
and social inclusion. The SFD aims to increase social cohesion through the participation of citizens,



Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
NGOs and local administrations in the project cycle. However, many existing non-governmental
organizations are not adequate to mobilize the poor. Their vocation is charity rather than self-help.
The existing law limits NGOs activities in advocacy. Finally, rural NGOs have limited financial
means.
3.2    There are multiple and contradictory expectations on NGOs. The SFD also expects
NGOs to play an increasing role in service provision, and is training and supporting them to increase
their financial and implementation capacities. The question is whether NGOs should be grassroots
organizations, service providers, or both, and if NGOs in poor areas can be expected to become self-
sustaining. Poor groups need NGOs which can mobilize and represent them, while SFD training has
been technical and project-oriented. Sometimes poor NGOs are excluded from SFD funding for their
lack of connections. The SFD should better define NGO selection criteria and content of training,
focusing on NGOs' capacities to organize poor people, and on reaching NGOs in marginal areas.
Recent SFD training programs are going in this direction.
3.3    There is limited participation in SFD project identification and design. Central and local
Governments play an important role in project identification. Villages short of influential leaders or
NGOs, and "invisible" social groups can be under-represented in the decision process. Women's
umnet demand for sanitation and local markets is an example. The emphasis on rapid disbursement
leads to a preference for project packages which are repetitive in nature, however this is with limited
community input in the design process. The top down design can lead to the failure of highly needed
projects. Behind many of these problems is the limited number and qualification of local staff. The
SFD is planning to expand and train its personnel, and to combine PWP and CDP into Community
Based Infrastructure Development. Trained SFD staff should become a focal point for local
communities to express needs and proposals, also outside the necessarily rapid project appraisal
cycle. The SFD could ask the assistance of NGOs and local universities to launch parficipatory
studies for need identification. However, the staff must be able to assess the quality and relevance of
their work.
4.   Partnership Between SFD, GOE and Communities
4.1    There are high Government demands on the SFD. For local administrators, the SFD is an
essential source of funding in order for them to realize their development plans. With its limited
resources, the SFD has spread itself too thin in many sectors and areas. There are little opportunities
for cumulative development process in specific communities.
4.2    There is a trade off between rapidity of service delivery and project quality and degree
of innovation. Many SFD projects are typically governmental ones. Their value added is the light
structure and low administrative costs. However, this implicates limited number of local staff for
outreach, monitoring and supervision activities. There is a need to concentrate on innovation and
participation - what the Government cannot do - besides supplementing governmental projects. The
SFD should adopt a more intensive approach, by increasing time and resources infield activities.
4.3    SFD and Government coordination is essential to: (i) cover local needs in basic services.
The planning capacity of local administrators plays a crucial role here. There are also many cases of
overlapping or conflict, such as the relationship between the SFD and the national Rural
Development Program (Shrouk); and (ii) projects sustainability. By definition, CDP projects have a
limited timeframe and need some integration with the public sector to expand their scale and impact.
Current project agreements are not enough to ensure Government contribution to the O&M of PWP
and CDP projects. The SFD should: (i) continue to build the capacity of local administrations in
planning and cost-recovery; (ii) increase sustainability of CDP projects, by ensuring Government



Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
involvement; and (iii) continue assistance to the Central Government in the design of service delivery
mechanisms and sector reforms.
4.4    The feasibility of local cost-recovery differs among Governorates. Aswan administrators
are satisfied with the new system introduced by the SFD. Dakahleya administrators are already
collecting taxes for local development, and believe that the Central Government should cover the
rest. The SFD is aware of regional specificity, and is assessing the feasibility of various aternatives
for cost-recovery.
4.5    Additional community contribution is controversial. So far, local contributions to SFD
projects have come from Govemorate budgets, with little involvement from community members.
Rural residents pay more taxes and fees for services than people in the cities, and resist the idea of
additional ones. The ongoing KfW study is assessing the feasibility of different forms of local cost-
recovery.
4.6    Administrators tend to consider participation as taxes, fees and donations to projects,
while residents demand more control on how money is spent, and involvement in decision making.
Material contributionper se does not create a sense of ownership of local projects.
4.7    Some SFD projects are unsuitable to local conditions because of limited local input in
design, and already show maintenance problems. The SFD should promote local consultations on
technical andfinancial aspects of projects, and encourage trust between local administrations and
citizens by information campaigns, public meetings, etc.
5.   The SFD and Government Social Policies
5.1   GOE commitment to social development is a condition for the SFD to play a more
prominent role in the future. Under ERSAP, the GOE has preserved or increased expenditures in
health and education (figures). Health, education and vocational training reforms are underway. The
national Rural Development Program ("Shrouk") established a fund for local development projects.
The SFD is but one element in the Government's social protection strategy, which also includes
subsidies and cash transfers.
5.2 However, it will be some time before GOE reforms/programs will positively affect
poverty reduction. The future net impact of GOE's social agenda and ERSAP on poverty is a matter
of debate, and it is likely that the Government will still need SFD support to face emergency
problems. Currently, the SFD constitutes a significant part of GOE's overall expenditures in safety
nets. At the same time, its size is small in comparison to the magnitude of the needs.
5.3 The Government's success in resuming GDP growth will hopefully allow increased efforts in:
(a) mobilizing public resources to cover growing needs in quality services and infrastructures, and
their O&M costs; (b) investing in labor intensive, private agricultural and industrial sectors; and (c)
strengthening the national safety net (ex: MOSA cash transfers) for ultra poor groups which cannot
be reached by SFD projects.
5.4  Finally, the SFD performance is also affected by the national legislative framework,
especially concerning cost-recovery and the role of NGOs. Discussions are underway on the
feasibility of cost-recovery, in the context of the GOE decentralization program. The Egyptian
parliamnent is currently discussing a new law regulating NGOs' activities, which generated a lively
debate among stakeholders. There is a high demand for a legislative framework which promotes
decentralization and the growth of civil society organizations.



Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
6.     Conclusion
6.1    Under pressure from Government and donors, the SFD has to reconcile multiple and
sometimes contradictory objectives: rapid disbursement and innovation, financial sustainability and
reaching the very poor, mobilizing communities and providing political consensus to the
Government, project quality and temporary job creation. Gaps in existing assessments also reflect the
lack of a clear goals and development vision.
6.2    CDP and PWP are addressing relevant areas for the social development of poor communities,
by providing basic services and infrastructure and temporary income generating opportunities. In the
future, priority areas are urban informal workers and squatter areas, permanent job creation and
livelihood improvement in rural areas, quality of water and education, capacity building, social
inclusion, and advocacy.
6.3    Projects have still a limited effect on community empowerment and social change. SFD
beneficiaries are more service recipients than active actors. Staff training and expansion and better
tools to select and train NGOs are crucial to increase participation in project identification and
design.
6.4    High Government demands put a constraint on SFD investments in innovation and quality.
The capacity of local administrations is crucial for coordination and project sustainability, but more
involvement of Central Government is also needed. Community involvement in project design and
decision making are important tools for sustainability, while the feasibility of more fees and taxes has
to be carefully analyzed.
6.5    The GOE commitment on human development is a pre-condition for greater SFD impact in
the future. Priority areas for the GOE are employment, rural development, social safety nets, budget
allocation for O&M, and support to decentralization and civil society.
6.6  In the future, the SFD is advised to continue and strengthen its efforts in: (a) defining programs
as first priority (particularly temporary employment creation vs. poverty reduction) and parameters
for evaluation; (b) improving the monitoring system, including baseline data; (c) focusing on the
urban informal sector, livelihood improvement and productive activities in rural areas, quality of
water/sanitation and education, capacity building of poor groups, social inclusion, and advocacy; (d)
concentrating on innovation and participation besides typically governmental projects, by increasing
time and resources in field activities; and (e) focusing on capacity building of local and central
Government, and promoting coordination and integration.
Claudine Kader
P:\EGYPT\HD\52705\NEG\postnego\annex 7.doc
05/06/99 8:35 AM



Annex 8
Page 1 of 11
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Operating Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Background
The Social Fund for Development (SFD) was set up in 1991, by a Presidential decree No 40 and is
governed by the Board of Directors (BOD); headed by the Prime Minister'. The BOD defines the
overall policies and strategies of the SFD. The Executive Committee sets the general framework
for the execution of projects agreed upon by the Board of Directors, and evaluates projects
submitted to the SFD prior to presenting them to the Board. Authority over the SFD's daily
operations rests with the Managing Director (MD), who is responsible for the SFD's personnel,
administrative, financial, and operational activities and issues. (see Table I for the Organization
Chart).
The SFD 2 was established as an autonomous entity outside the regular Government structure. The
Fund is comprised of five programs: Enterprise Development Program, Community Development
Program, Public Works Program, Human Resources Development Program, and Institutional
Program. This enables it to: (a) have the flexibility necessary to respond quickly and efficiently to
requests for sub-project support; and (b) provide funding and technical assistance for institutional
strengthening of communities, NGOs, and grassroots organizations, thereby promoting self-
reliance in communities as well as stimulating community organization and participation.
The SFD implements projects according to established procedures. Each program has its own
operation manual that is continuously being revised and reviewed in the light of lessons learned
and changing conditions on the ground. The head office of the programs reside in Cairo; however
the regional offices play a crucial role as a contact point between the fund and the grassroots
requests. Examples of Regional Office tasks are3: providing advice to communities and NGOs,
coordinate together with the respective programs the sub-project pre-appraisal, facilitate
supervision and monitoring, and perform records maintenance and project evaluation. During
negotiations the borrower and SFD gave assurances that the statutes, by-laws and operating
procedures of SFD will remain acceptable to the World Bank Group at all times.
At the present time, the Minister of Finance has been delegated to chair the Board
2  The functions of the SFD would be to: (i) facilitate project generation by providing technical assistance geared
towards promoting self-help in communities as well as community participation, (ii) appraise and approve project
proposals; (iii) administer disbursement of funds for project implementation; (iv) monitor project implementation.
3  The regional offices are staffed with trained university students.



Annex 8
Page 2 of II
SFD's Organization Chart
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Envirownment                        Managing Director                            Internal Audit
Dev.
Consultants                     Planning and                Livelihood
Office                                                     Studies
Legal Advisors                       Fund
and BOD           _ _          Management
Affairs
PR and                        Gender Unit
International
Cooperation
Affairs
IDP           CDP            PWP             BD           Finance and      SEDO
Admin.
Design &           Social Dev.      Municipal      Capacity        Finance
Tech. Dev.                           Services       Building
Skills
Micro-finance   Infrastruct.     Standards        Admin
Dev. of
Training
Regional       Population     Integrated &    Capabilities    Personnel &
Offices                     - Env. Projects                    Training
HR Restruct.
Labor Mkt
MIS



Annex 8
Page 3 of 11
Sub-project Cycle
The SFD's respective Program' initiates and accepts sub-project proposals submitted by a
sponsoring agency (SA) 5 to any of the regional or satellite offices (Twenty Regional offices and
six satellite offices) or central to the program. The selection of SA proposals for loans or grants6
are based on specific guidelines established in the Operational Manual. SFD accepts sub-project
proposals submitted by SAs to the national, regional and satellite offices, based on clearly
articulated guidelines established in the Operational Manual. SAs provide assistance in proposal
preparation when needed.
A preliminary screening is conducted by the regional and satellite offices which is then forwarded
to the central or program office for a detailed desk and field appraisal, guided by SFD selection
criteria. This consists of: social and institutional analyses; a simplified economic analysis; an
environmental analysis as described in Annex 6; as well as an impact assessment in the case of
PWP-funded sub-projects. Each Program is allocated a certain level of funds drawn from SFD's
financial resources at the beginning of the phase according to the operational plan; according to
donors' specified directives of funds in agreement with the Fund's mandate. More and more, the
dynamic nature of matching the required funding to proposed/appraised sub-projects is being
accommodated in the funds management.
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria
Proposals funded under the SFD fall within a typology of subprojects (SPs) encompassing public
works, enterprise development, community development programs, and human resources
development. These components were designed with a view to: (a) a reduction in the levels of
poverty through supporting employment generation and community development efforts; (b)
mitigating the negative impact of the Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program; and
(c) creating employment opportunities for the unemployed youth.
Selection and evaluation of SPs as well as Sponsoring Agencies (SAs) are guided by transparent
evaluation and selection criteria delineated in the Operating Manual of the SFD. The principal
elements of SP selection procedures emphasize: (a) general criteria; (b) social criteria; (c) technical
feasibility; and (d) sustainability, including financial and institutional analysis. These selection
criteria apply to all components within the SFD program.
General Selection Criteria
The General selection criteria include the following: (a) the objectives of the sub-project should
comply and attempt to achieve the overall goals of the Egypt Social Fund, and the programs
should encourage the participation of the private sector, NGOs and voluntary institutions; (b) the
sub-project (SP) should be identified on the basis of direct contacts with the target groups in the
target geographical areas, so that project components represent community priorities; (c) the
participation of women should be an integral component, especially in the CDP and EDP SPs; (d)
the proposed SPs must not be included in any Government action program in order to avoid
duplication of activities; (e) an acceptable level of community participation should be
demonstrated either directly or through an SA; (f) the SP should generate employment
4 Although each program has its own operational manual; sub-projects follow a typical cycle.
5  SAs include ministnes, the public or private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), banks, Govermorates
and communities.
6 Grants are targeted towards infrastructure projects in rural communities as well as poor urban neighborhoods, and
loans towards income generating activities.



Annex 8
Page 4 of 11
opportunities at a suitable cost and finance labor based technology when deemed appropriate; (g) a
plan for sustainability and maintenance should be prepared as an essential part of the proposal; (h)
the SP should conform with national norms and standards; (i) written authorization of permits
from local and regional governments should be obtained, and coordination of public and private
institutions in SP implementation should be ensured; (j) the project should demonstrate an
acceptable cost per beneficiary; (k) technical feasibility of SPs should be demonstrated; (1)
administrative costs of an SP should not exceed 10 percent of total costs. The SAs are allowed to
charge a sponsorship fee not to exceed 5 percent of the total project cost; (m) target Groups: (i)
lower income communities, particularly in rural Governorates; (ii) communities lacking complete
or partial access to the basic and essential public services; (iii) redundant workers in the public
sector enterprises; (iv) unemployed youth; and (v) women; and (n) the SP design should adhere to
environmental design guidelines as described in Annex 6.
For the detailed criteria under the other headings, they are as follows: Social Criteria: (a) the
proposed SP should cover a target theme; (b) the population in the area to be covered; (c) available
social indicators for the area; (d) the request must originate with the community; (e) the SP
responds to the priorities of the majority of beneficiary households; and (f) the Community will
play an active role in implementation and monitoring of implementation. Technical Criteria: (a)
conformity with and complementary to national planning; (b) norms and standards, if any,
established by a concerned Ministry are adhered to; (c) description of the general state of the
infrastructure, access to water and sanitation; (d) works to be undertaken, equipment and materials
to be procured, schedule of works; (e) total area of infrastructure; (f) for expansion, suitability of
area for expansion; and (g) local availability of essential materials needed for a SP. Economic
and Financial Criteria: (a) the financing plan, should include contributions from
SAs/beneficiaries either in cash and/or kind for public work SPs. For projects over US$0.5
million, the economic rate of return should exceed 12 percent; (b) cost benefit analysis, and or/cost
per beneficiary; (c) sustainability, i.e., the capacity to provide for successful operations and
maintenance beyond the investment period, including cost-recovery in cash or kind, when
appropriate - the central or local Government and/or beneficiaries (including SAs) should offer
some form of operations and maintenance assurances; and adequate training for operations and
maintenance should be included in SFD's training budget. Institutional and Management
Criteria: (a) sufficient institutional arrangements to ensure rigor in SP implementation and
subsequent operations and management, while at the same time taking into account ease and speed
of implementation; (b) communities should have guidance and receive technical assistance from
SAs (i.e. the existence of a supporting agency when the implementing agency is weak in SP
execution); (c) current personnel availability of the beneficiary representatives (communities, SAs,
etc.), skill levels, attendance frequency; (d) for SPs requiring expansion, the availability of
additional personnel, skill level and attendance frequency; (e) necessary equipment and materials
to adequately deliver services at the estimated levels.



Annex 8
Page 5 of 11
Project Cycle
|     ~Project Proposal      IdS  SF_eina ;                       e
EluoPreliminary Evaluation                          S     g
|     ~Final Proposal                   J     A /BReinl6 7
.J .ISFDSFD Legal Department
Framewort  Agreementatio
|Funding Agencies]SA/Pd   O
6    Donors                                             O         &
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _.
|Monitoring &              DI ,.
Evaluation
PIU/SFD 
SA/IA/EA.
Handing Over
Operation & Maintenance 
4 ,     ,                  ~~~~~SA/IA/EA
L-  Project Sustainability      l



Annex 8
Page 6 of 11
Public Works Program
Background
The Public Works Program (PWP) component of the Egypt Social Fund was designed to: (a)
establish labor based infrastructure and (b) create temporary jobs in the local communities of
project implementation.
In order to meet its mandate, the PWP undertook construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
essential municipal services in areas facing budgetary contraction, high incidence of poverty and
unemployment. PWP sub-projects were carried out by local private contractors using local labor,
and included construction and rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage systems, streets and
rural roads, irrigation and drainage canals, etc., and maintenance such as cleaning canals, and
public buildings.
PWP Procedures for Sub-ProjectManagement
The submission of the PWP sub-project proposal 7 by a sponsoring agency marks the first stage of
the sub-project cycle. Governorates develop a list of projects based on requests received from
communities through district offices. The SFD screens the list of projects and identifies eligible
sub-projects based upon the established selection criteria. The screening process involves an
evaluation by a PWP pre-appraisal Committee in the PWP department. Following clearance, the
proposal is presented to the SFD Appraisal and then Executive Committee (SFD/EC) for final
approval. The SFD/EC approval is followed by a framework agreement signed by both parties,
the SFD and the Sponsoring Agency. Prior to sub-project implementation, the SFD appoints a
project manager who assumes full responsibility for project supervision (monitoring progress and
making payments to Intermediary Agencies). Generally more than one Intermediary Agency is
involved at the Governorate level (e.g., water supply department, roads department, irrigation
department, etc.) and agreements are established between each Intermediary Agency and the
project manager. The Intermediary Agency becomes the party responsible for contracting out the
works to Executing Agencies (local private contractors, NGOs, beneficiaries).
The SFD disburses payments in tranches which are forwarded directly to an account controlled by
the project manager, who in turn authorizes payments to Intermediary Agencies' accounts for
payments to Executing Agencies (contractors). Contractors are paid by Intermediary Agencies
based on disbursement applications for works completed according to the contractual agreements.
Fund transfers are not made through the Sponsoring Agency (Governorate). To ensure community
participation and ownership of the sub-project, a 10 percent cost-share (in cash) is conditional to
the disbursement of the first tranche from the SFD. On the other hand and in order to ensure
sustainability of the sub-project, another 10 percent sourced from the community and 10 percent
from the SFD is placed in a savings account to provide for the projected costs of operations and
maintenance either partially or fully8.
The SFD Regional Offices also monitor implementation and key sub-project implementation
parameters are recorded at SFD Headquarters by the Planning and Statistics Department.
Sponsoring and Intermediary Agencies will play a key role in self-generating such data at sub-
project design and during implementation.
7  Sub-projects concept papers are submitted to either the regional office, the PWP office or the head-quarters.
8  Currently a KfW funded study is examining various possible methodologies of utilizing the O&M funds
effectively.



Annex 8
Page 7 of 11
Community Development Program
Background
The Community Development Program (CDP), an integral part of SFD, was designed to finance
improvements in: (a) productive activities focusing on income and employment generation; and
(b) social development activities to improve the delivery of essential services to poor communities.
Through its integrated project activities, CDP has infused communities with an enhanced level of
social awareness and self-esteem, especially for women. CDP represents an important vehicle for
mobilizing the energies and resources of community groups, local governments, NGOs, and the
private sector by using a participatory approach, thus leading to more sustainable projects. The
promotion of self-help activities can be seen as the cornerstone of CDP projects and an effective
mechanism for addressing poverty alleviation.
CDP's flexibility and decentralized approach allows it to exploit the diverse strengths of different
stakeholders, to benefit from the geographical coverage that multiple organizations might be able
to provide, and to finance projects simultaneously in multiple sectors.
CDP Procedures for Sub-Project Management
The CDP's project proposals are prepared by the beneficiaries or the sponsoring
agency/supporting institution9, and submitted to the SFD's regional offices'. An initial review of
proposed concepts of projects is done by the regional offices in coordination with the program's
staff41. Once the proposal has been formulated, it is reviewed by the pre-appraisal committee at the
CDP level; if approved it is passed on to the SFD's appraisal committee to go through the project
cycle (as sketched in Table 2). That is followed by legal contracting procedures should the
proposal be accepted. Regular monitoring of the sub-project is carried on to ensure the
implementation status is adequate.
Packaging ofProjects
The design and implementation of standardized projects have facilitated quick and efficient project
implementation and has proven to be extremely effective in reaching the maximum number of
beneficiaries. The programs are well designed, and respond to community needs in a manner that
currently is not provided by the public sector. This is an instance where the Ministry of Education
can attempt to draw lessons in designing small and technically simple projects. Other packages to
be implemented by CDP include, upgrading primary health care through the use of extension
officers, development of health emergency services, dental hygiene, and farnily programs.
Sustainability and Cost Recovery
Soliciting agencies are requested to incorporate mechanisms to be used for cost-recovery,
operations and maintenance in project proposals. The CDP evaluates the institutional capacity of
the soliciting agency and feasibility of the proposed mechanism to ensure proper operation and
maintenance. Operations and maintenance costs are allocated within each line ministries' budget,
therefore, projects implemented by the public sector would be ensured a budget for such activities.
Projects involving direct community implementation institute mechanisms to recover sufficient
funds through modest fees and contribution in kind to cover costs of operations and maintenance.
CDP projects also include technical assistance for operations and maintenance. This approach is
9 CDP implements projects via an intermediary, which can be a private organization, NGOs, local administrative
bodies, govemorates or ministries. Effectively, NGOs have been a significant stake-holder in CDP' s activities.
10 Project proposals may be submitted to SFD programs.
11 The beneficiary or the institution may refer to the CDP staff for technical support in developing a project concept
document.



Annex 8
Page 8 of 11
successfully being implemented in certain villages in upper Egypt. Certain projects such as adult
illiteracy eradication do not require financial assistance beyond the life of the project. Generally,
CDP has had less of an issue with O&M than the PWP.
Targeting
Funding of community development activities has been targeted based on the original poverty map
developed by SFD in 1992. Efforts are underway for SFD to update its poverty map and targeting
mechanism in order to reflect the evolving nature of SFD, and the current patterns of living
standards in Egypt.
Decentralization
The SFD is reviewing a delineation of responsibilities between the Headquarters and the regional
offices. A task force has been formed to carefully design and monitor various possibilities in that
regard. The on-going DANIDA funded project in Qena and Aswan may act as a model; which if
successful could be replicated/modified and applied in the rest of the 26 offices. A pilot scheme is
being developed to relocate the pre-appraisal stage to the regional office rather than the program
level. Such initiatives cater for the expanding nature of the SFD as well as the dynamic nature of
the demand on the part of the local communities. The presently promising efforts in the fund's
monitoring and evaluation scheme ties in closely with the decentralization pilot study. A more
decentralized approach in the area of project approval will allow for further flexibility in CDP
operations given the increasing demand being generated from communities.
Community Based Infrastructure Development
Both the PWP and CDP fall under community infrastructure category of activities, working
closely with the community-level needs and demand; collaborating with various stakeholders of
the society at the grassroots level. Drawn from the maturing nature of the fund as regard its
responsiveness to a more comprehensive package of human development, a set of serious steps are
currently being developed to formalize the integrated nature of relating CDP and PWP into
Community Based Infrastructure Development; whereby the Human Development Indicators will
be utilized in the various stages of sub-project design and implementation.



Annex 8
Page 9 of 11
Estimated disbursements and output for the CDP IDA-funded projects for the extended third phase (2000
2002)
Sectoral Budget Breakdown
Sectoral        2001          2002           2003
Budget
Health               17000000       6120000       7480000        3400000
Education and         3750000       1350000       1650000         750000
training
Environment           2250000        810000        990000         450000
NGO capacity          2000000        720000        720000         400000
building
*Total               25000000      9000000       11000000        5000000
Budget
Output of Health Sector
Renovation of health units                200
Upgrading of central hospital             6
Human Resources Development               2,700 individuals
Number of beneficiaries                   2,000,000
Output for the Education Sector
Single classrooms established             1,600
Number of Beneficiaries                    18,000
Productive Families Loans
Number of beneficiaries                   6,400
Output for Environmental Sector
Environmental projects                    5 projects
Output for the NGO capacity building
Upgrading technical and administrative capacity  900 NGO's
plus administrative costs for NGOs working
as sponsoring agencies
The estimated total number of permanent job opportunities created by the
PWP and the CDP projects is:  2,500
The estimated total number of temporary job opportunities created by the
PWP and the CDP projects is:   20,000
*Total Budget: the total CDP budget includes the $2,430,100 community component in the PWP
integrated projects



Annex 8
Page 10 of 11
Estimated disbursements and output for the PWP IDA- funded projects for the extended third
phase (2000-2002)
Sectoral Budget Breakdown
Sectoral       2001        2002        2003
Budget
Environmental Infrastructure      7500328     2700000  3300144.32   1500065.6
Potable                           7500328     2700000  3300144.32   1500065.6
Water
Rural Roads                       8253334  2971200.24  3631466.96   1650666.8
Building                           900510      324420    396224.4      180102
Refulrbishment
Institutional                      845500      304380      372020      169100
~support
2430100      874836    1069244       486020
*Community
Total                            274301001 9874836.24   12069244    5486020
Budget 
Environmental Infrastructure Output:       Rural Roads Output:
Waste Water Networks  8.5 km               Road construction 150 km
Canal Covering       27 km
Canal Protection     3 km
Potable Water Output:                      Building Refurbishment Output:
Networks                   440 km               Clinics          7
Elevated & Ground Tanks    11                   Youth Centres    20
Artesian Wells             18                   Schools          18
Pump Houses                12                   Social Centres    10
*Community: it is the community component in the integrated PWP projects and is
funded from the CDP budget



Annex 8
Page 11 of 11
List of Documents Related to the Project Implementation Plan
Presidential Decree No 40/1991
Monitoring and Evaluation Framework
Operations Manuil: Public Works Program
Operations Manual: Community Development Program
Registration Form for Consultancy Firms
Sub-Project Documents
Project Appraisal
Request for Proposal
Bidding Documents
Bids Evaluation and Comparison Table
Consultancy Agreement
Financial and Administrative by-laws
Purchase or External Service Request
Implementation Report
Project Evaluation Report
World Bank User
P:\EGYPT\HD\52705\NEG\postnego\Annex B.doc
05/06/99 8:39 AM



Annex 9
Page 1 of 8
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Credit would finance sub-projects involving civil works, goods, technical assistance and training.
Procurement under the Credit would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" - January 1995, revised January and revisions up to January
1999 and for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" - January 1997 and
revisions up to January 1999. Project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance
with national regulations or the guidelines of co-financing institutions. The Bank's standard bidding
documents would be used for all procurement where applicable, and would be modified in the case of
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and in the Arabic language. Simplified documents would be prepared
for use under the project and would apply to National/International Shopping (NS/IS).
Following the financial and procurement assessment conducted in the field in February, 1999, it was
agreed that an external technical procurement audit would take place by October, 1999 for the Social Fund for
Development Phase II to review processes and contracts undertaken for civil works, goods, and consultant
services. The review would focus on a random sample (about 1/3) of the contracts under execution.
WORKS. Civil works undertaken by the SFD would comprise construction, rehabilitation and repair of
irrigation and drainage canals, water supply and sewerage systems, rural roads and streets, public buildings,
maintenance of canals and public buildings, solid waste collection, and disposal. Civil works contract would
include small works in dispersed communities, estimated to not exceed US$150,000. Large contracts would
not arise due to the nature of the works involved, and therefore, ICB is not foreseen.
Civil works with an estimated contract value above US$50,000 would be awarded through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) with advertisement in two national newspapers. Civil works below US$50,000
up to an aggregate amount of US$20.0 million would be procured through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) using simplified bidding documents and announcements through posting in public areas. Civil works
under US$20,000 would be procured through Community Contracting through solicitation of competitive
quotations from at least three capable local contractors.
Prior Review for Works: All procurement of works subject to NCB, with estimated contract values
above US$200,000 equivalent, as well as the first three works contracts, irrespective of contract value, would
be subject to prior review. Post-review would be conducted during supervision missions and procurement
audits.
GOODS. Goods and equipment would primarily include materials and equipment for facilities, social
services (e.g. tools, medicines, education materials, etc.), and contracts would not be expected to exceed
US$300,000.
Goods with estimated contract values above US$100,000 would be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures with advertisements in at least two national newspapers or UN
Procurement procedures would be applied in the procurement of medicines and education materials which are
readily available from specialized UN Agencies. Goods with estimated contract value under US$100,000 up



Annex 9
Page 2 of 8
to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million would be procured through National Shopping (NS) by soliciting at
least three competitive quotations from capable national suppliers.
Prior Review for Goods: All procurement of goods with estimated contract values above US$100,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review. Post-review would be conducted during supervision missions and
procurement audits.
SERVICES. Technical assistance and training would cover services to help small entrepreneurs,
support for community social services and feasibility studies for sub-projects.
Under technical assistance, an invitation for expressions of interest in these consultancies would be
advertised in at least two national newspapers. Using transparent criteria, responses would be evaluated by an
evaluation committee and qualified consultants would be short-listed for selections as opportunities
materialize.
Given the nature of the studies which would be undertaken under the project, and their size and scope
which would be small in nature, these studies would be carried out in the majority of cases by individual
consultants. Therefore, Quality-Based Selection (QBS) would be the method used, with a percentage also
falling under Single-Source Selection (SS). Training would be contracted in accordance with TOR, budget
and implementation schedule during annual reviews of the project.
Prior Review for Services: Terms of Reference (TOR) and cost estimates for services contracts above
US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review, in addition to the first three contracts irrespective of
contract value.
Procurement Management
The SFD has its main headquarters in Cairo, and is supported by 20 regional and 6 satellite offices. The
regional and satellite offices are the main point of contact between requesting agencies and the SFD: they
provide advice to communities, NGOs, and regional government on SFD procedures; receive completed
application forms; coordinate sub-project appraisal committees and conduct field appraisals and launch
workshops through the SFD's Programs. The regional and satellite offices are linked to the national offices
through telephones and facsimiles. A decentralization proposal to enlarge the role of the regional and satellite
offices is presently being piloted. This will allow for improved synergy between different programs, speed up
the approval process, and help improve the impact of SFD activities on the intended beneficiaries. The
organizational and operational methodologies were reviewed during appraisal with a view to improve
decentralization.
The SFD is supported by the following units: (a) Management Information Systems (MIS); (b) Credit
responsible for determining the credit worthiness of projects involving intermediary agencies and/or
beneficiaries for both the Community Development and Enterprise Development Programs; (c) Projects and
Planning office, (includes a monitoring targeting evaluation and studies unit), with requisite skills to plan and
review SFD activities, as well as appraise and evaluate projects; (d) Legal mandated to prepare framework
agreements and handle related legal matters; (e) International Cooperation Affairs and Information for Public
Relations Department charged with managing and organizing marketing campaigns involving information
dissemination on the role of SFD as well as handling problems arising from poor communication; and (f)
Internal Auditing which reports directly to the Managing Director and the Board of Directors.
The SFD would have primary responsibility for monitoring physical and financial progress of the
works undertaken by the Sponsoring Agencies (SA)/NGO. The Governorate beneficiaries submit a proposal
outlining the works to be undertaken and to be considered for financing by the SFD. The SFD reviews and



Annex 9
Page 3 of 8
approves the proposal for which a Project Appraisal document is prepared (detailing the scope of work,
feasibility, sustainability, timetable, disbursement schedule, etc.).   Through the SFD's Programs, a
Framework Agreement is signed with the SAINGO which describes the guidelines to be followed and each
party's role in the implementation of the project. The SA/NGO then sub-contracts the work with a contractor
and/or supplier.
The SFD would oversee and guide the SA/NGO based on the processes outlined in the SFD's Program
Operations Manuals (OM) (the OMs are presently being revised to take into account the decentralization plan,
as part of the change process, scheduled for completion on June 30, 1999). The OM would form the
cornerstone of the Project Launch Workshop and subsequent activities. Among other guidance, this Manual
would provide consistent procurement procedures for all project beneficiaries, and would be disseminated to
all project entities.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                       ProcurementMethod                      Total Cost (including
Category                                                                   contingencies)
NCB              Other a/       Consulting Services
CDP Sub-Projects        2.8                6.6                6.7                  16.1
(2.5)             (6.0)               (6.0)               (14.5)
*Civil Works          _                  3.0                                     3.0
(-)               (2.7)                                   (2.7)
*Goods              2.8                3.6                                     6.4
(2.5)             (3.3)                                   (5.8)
* Services                                                 6.7                 6.7
(--)              (--)               (6.0)                (6.0)
PWP Sub-Projects        9.3                39.5                                    48.8
(6.9)             (28.5)                                  (35.4)
* Civil Works         9.3               39.5                --                  48.8
(6.9)             (28.5)                                  (35.4)
TOTAL               12.1              46.1                6.7                  65.0
______==________      (9.4              (34.5)              (6.0)               (50.0)
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to
be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
a/ Contracted through local shopping or through communities;
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank IDA credit.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where
applicable).



Annex 9
Page 4 of 8
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Senvces Expenditures             Total Cost
Category           QBS      SS     (including
contingencies)
A. Finms            4.9     0.5       5.4
B. Individual        0.5     0.1       0.6
TOTAL              5.4    0.6        6.0
Note: QBS = Quality-Based Selection
SS = Sole Source
Procurement Planning. The Programs of the SFD (Community Development Program (CDP) and
Public Works Program (PWP)) being financed under the proposed project, have no procurement unit. The
Programs are responsible for preparing a Project Appraisal Document, which is based on requests received
from the Governorates/NGOs, and which outlines the scope of works (the project and its sub-projects),
feasibility, sustainability, terms and conditions (criteria), project cost, disbursement schedule, and schedule of
completion.
Procuring of civil works/goods/consultant services is undertaken at the Sponsoring Agency (SA)/NGO
level who are familiar with processes under Egyptian Law.  Under the PWP, standard contracts and
methodology for project management are used by the implementing agencies. CDP does not use standard
contracts or purchase orders, and the implementing agencies do not have an operations manual to guide them
on proper procurement methodologies.
Reporting and monitoring are submitted by the Implementing Agency/contractor on a monthly basis to
the SA/NGO, who compiles the information and submits it to the SFD's regional office who in turns sends the
information to the General Secretariat of the SFD. The monthly reports vary in detail from level to level, with
in-depth detail on contract management emanating from the contractor/implementing agency level, to
disbursement information and completion date per each sub-project (see Procurement Assessment as part of
the Financial Management Assessment Report for more details). These reports provide information on
physical/financial and indicator achievements.



Annex 9
Page 5 of 8
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure     Contract Value (Treshold)  Procurement  Contracts subject to Prior Review!
Category                                  Method      Estimated total value subject to
._____________________          Prior  Review
Sub-Project          > US$500,000                       First 3 contracts regardless of
contract value.
A. Works           = or > US$50,000        NCB           Advertisement in 2 national
newspapers.
First 3 contracts regardless of
contract value.
Prior review for all contracts
> US$200,000
US$50,000-US$20,000     Simplified    Advertisement in public areas.
NCB         First 3 contracts regardless of
______________________                         contract value.
< US$20,000        Community         Solicitation of 3 quotes.
Contracting   First 3 contracts regardless of
contract value.
B. Goods          = or > US$100,000      NCB or UN       Advertisement in 2 national
Procurement           newspapers.
All contracts > US$100,000
<US$100,000            NS            Solicitation of 3 quotes.
C. Services       > US$100,000 (firms)      QBS          First 3 contracts regardless of
value/method.
All contracts above
US$100,000
All TORs and cost estimates
All SS methods.
Advertisement in national papers
and Development Business for
_ _ __ _    contracts above >US$200,000
US$50,000 >x<          QBS          First 3 contracts regardless of
US$100,000                              value/method.
Qualification, experience and TOR
for individual consultants.
All SS methods.
< US$50,000          QBS/SS        First 3 contracts regardless of
value/method.
All SS methods
Financial Manafement System
A financial -management review undertaken during the appraisal mission is to be found as part
of the Financial Management Report in the project files. The review covers the following aspects: (i)
organization structure of SFD, (ii) accounting practices, (iii) internal control, (iv) external and internal
audit arrangements, (v) reporting, (vi) staffing of the financial management function, (vii) special
account anrangements, and finally, (viii) an action plan to improve the financial management system
and allow it to comply with IDA's OP 10.02 and LACI requirements.



Annex 9
Page 6 of 8
An Action Plan with timetable of implementation was agreed upon between IDA and the SFD
management during the appraisal mission is attached at the end of this annex. Once the Action Plan
is fully implemented, the system is expected to meet all IDA's financial management requirements as
per OP 10.02 and LACI handbook.
Disbursement and Reporting
The proposed Credit, would be disbursed over a period of three years beginning in FY00. The
completion date is scheduled for June 30, 2002, and the closing date December 31, 2002.
This is shorter than the country disbursement profile of eight years. This period is deemed
feasible due to the following reasons: (a) this is the third of a continuing series of projects with SFD;
(b) SFD has proved to be effective in disbursing 75 percent of the second IDA Credit in two years;
and (c) SFD has a large pipeline of appraised sub-projects awaiting financing.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$         Financing Percentage
million
Sub-Project                          50.0              100%
Total            50.0             100%
PMR-based Reporting System: The SFD will develop via a multi-disciplinary task force
comprised of financial and program staff, and in agreement with IDA, a Project Management Report
(PMR)-based reporting system. The task force will define inputs and outputs to the PMR based on
the model in the LACI Implementation Handbook. The draft PMR report will be submitted to IDA
by May 31, 2000. A test PMR system will then be operated for about four months. Disbursements
will be made on the basis of the first PMR (6-month plan). Subsequently, once approved,
replenishment will be made upon submission of quarterly PMRs. The PMRs will be prepared and
submitted to IDA by the SFD with copies of such applications provided to the Ministry of Planning
and International Cooperation for information. Replenishment of the SA by IDA will be based upon
receipt and approval of the PMRs. Applications for direct payment or Special Commitment, if any,
will be subject to a minimum value of 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the Special Account.
In the interim, the standard disbursement procedures will apply. Use of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs): disbursements over US$500,000 for sub-projects will be supported by full
documentation. Disbursements exceeding US$200,000 for works, US$100,000 for goods, and
US$50,000 for consultant firms/individuals, will be fully documented. For all expenditures below the
thresholds, disbursement will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documents for SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the SFD and made
available for review by IDA supervision missions. The SFD will record the contracts as agreed with
IDA, so that monitoring for ex-post review can be carried out as needed. IDA supervision missions
will review all sub-grant requests above US$250,000.
The Special Account (SA) will be established by the Government at the Central Bank under
SFD responsibility and Credit proceeds will be disbursed in US Dollars into the SA. The SA will be
operated by the SFD under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and the SFD Director along with
another senior SFD representative will be designated by the Ministry of Planning and International



Annex 9
Page 7 of 8
Cooperation as authorized signatories of the SA. Prior to implementation of the PMR-based
system, the .FD will follow the traditional method wherein an authorized allocation will be
established in the amount of US$10.0 million, with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, and an aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit account shall
equal or exceed the equivalent of US$20.0 million.
Disbursement applications will be prepared and submitted to IDA by the SFD with copies of
such applications provided to the Ministry of Planning & International Cooperation for information.
Replenishment of the SA by IDA will require the submission of full documentation or certified SOEs
showing that payments were made exclusively for eligible expenditures against contracts that are
below the prior review threshold. The SA will be replenished monthly, or after one-third of the initial
deposit amount has been disbursed, whichever is sooner.
Accounts and Audits: The SFD is not in compliance with IDA audit reporting covenants (see
section below on "Financial Assessment"). The SFD will be responsible for carrying out the
activities listed in the Action Plan (Sections A-D) to ensure that the accounts are maintained in
accordance with internationally sound and recognized accounting practices and in an accounting
system acceptable to IDA.
Reporting
The SFD will maintain continuity in project management, and will ensure that all project
documentation is well prepared and on schedule and that procedural problems are reduced to the
minimum. Prior to the completion of all activities under the Action Plan and subsequent PMR
submissions, the SFD will prepare semi-annual progress reports against identified indicators. These
reports would discuss problems encountered, solutions adopted, and adjustments to be made. The
SFD will maintain a uniform (standard) reporting system for the evaluation by all concerned donors.
All reports will be submitted concurrently to the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation,
IDA and the concerned donors. The SFD will prepare a detailed mid-term report for December, 2000
and submit it to all participating donors to serve as the basis for the mid-term review, which donors
and the GOE will conduct by June 30, 2001. The SFD will also prepare an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for review by IDA and other concerned donors within six-months of the
closing date of the Credit. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The SFD will be responsible for
monitoring progress against agreed performance indicators (specified in Annex I and 4), and
undertaking an extensive (independent) evaluation of the overall projects and the sub-project
interventions.  SFD's main M&E functions include: (a) developing process and performance
indicators for the two objectives and their respective activities; (b) monitoring implementation
progress and performance of the various activities; (c) developing and maintaining a database of
program status for the generation of annual progress reports for the government and participating
donors; (d) conducting continuous evaluation on the impact of the initiatives/interventions and
provide feedback for modification or improvement as necessary; and (e) preparing summary reports
for the Government and donors highlighting problems, issues, and recommended actions. The
regional offices will provide the SFD with quarterly progress reports summarizing: (a) the current
status of project implementation and reasons for deviation from agreed implementation plans; (b)
financial records; (c) constraints faced and corrective actions to be taken; (d) a work plan for the
subsequent six months; and (e) an update on agreed upon monitoring indicators. These reports will
be consolidated by the SFD and forwarded to the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation,
IDA and the other donors semi-annually. The SFD has a computer-based management information
system (MIS) designed to monitor the physical and financial progress of sub-project implementation
and evaluate SFD's overall performance. The MIS is presently being revised and piloted and will
provide better transparency and accountability of SFD activities, maintain data on targeting, and
facilitate contracting and payment. The MIS will also better track SFD activities through the sub-



Annex 9
Page 8 of 8
project cycle, including sub-project data, supervision, and identify cost overruns and potential
bottlenecks. The MIS system pilot (Phase I) will be completed by September, 1999, with completion
of Phase II (implementation in 5 regional offices) by December, 1999.
Program Launch Workshop: Program activities will be launched at a workshop shortly after
Credit effectiveness.  The workshop will introduce the prograrn activities to all designated
counterparts and discuss major technical and operational details.



Annex 9a
Page 1 of 14
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Financial Management Assessment
A Bank mission appraised the Egypt Social IH project for an IDA credit of US$50.0 million to finance
community infiastructure and related projects through the Public Works and Community Development
Programs of the Social Fund for Development (SFD). The project financial management arrangements
have been reviewed to assess the project's compliance with Bank financial policies and in particular with
regard to LACI and possible PMR-based disbursements.
A. The implementation Unit
The credit will be administered by the SFD, an organization created specially for the management of the
SFD programs. The entity has been in existence since 1991 and has been implementing Phases I and II
with financing from two IDA credits (Cr. 2276 (closed) and Cr. 2865) and other donor funding.
Organization Structure of the SFD. The SFD is an autonomous not-for-profit entity chaired by the prime
Minister. It has a separate Board of Directors and a Managing Director along with a staff structure. The
fund receives funding from various international donors and creditors (including IDA), as well as from
the Government of Egypt.
The Fund's organization is structured by program. Three major programs, as explained above, constitute
the core operations of the Fund. These are: the Community Development Program (CDP), the Public
Works Program (PWP), and the Enterprise Development Program (EDP). In addition to a smaller
program: the Human Resources Development Program (IRDP). The EDP is currently being spun off to
an autonomous entity owned by the SFD.
The programs are implemented through a large number of sponsoring agencies (SAs) and intermediary
agencies. These are Government entities, i.e. Govemorates, specialized authorities for: water, sanitation,
health, etc; and a large number of NGOs. Each of these units manages one or more sub-projects at the
Governorate level. An estimated average number of 700 sub-projects is currently being implemented
through this structure
The total number of staff working at SFD is about 180 employees, at headquarters (127) and the 26
regional offices (53). Projects are supervised through regional offices staff and through the temporary
recruitment of field officers and short-term consultants.
B. The Current Financial Management Function at SFD
The financial management function is performed by two main departments: The Finance department,
located at the SFD main office, and the Fund management department located in the EDP offices, with a
total of eleven employees working in the two departments. In addition the social fund has an internal
audit section with two employees reporting directly to the Managing Director of the SFD.
I -Accounting practices
The Fund maintains accounting books and records on a cash basis. The SFD disburses funds to
implementing agencies, also referred to as Sponsoring Agencies (SA), based on a contractual agreement
and a pre-established disbursement schedule with each of these SAs (see Annex 8 for further details by
Program). Funds are recorded when disbursed and then accounted for according to project categories
based on monthly reports received from the SAs. Except for operating expenditures, supporting



Annex 9a
Page 2 of 14
documentation is kept at the lowest level of implementation of the project: at the authorities,
Govemorates, and NGO levels. Supporting documentation for operating expenditures is kept at the
headquarters for both the regional offices and headquarters expenditures.
The mission reviewed accounting records at the following levels: SFD headquarters, selected SAs,
selected implementing institutions: one. NGO. The books of accounts reviewed and the supporting
documents kept at two Governorate management units seem to be adequate and in compliance with
generally accepted accounting principles. Selected intemal and extemal auditors reports reveal, however,
a lack of intemal control and accounting records in some sub-projects (refer to Attachment 1). Except for
the main office, accounting records and books are kept manually at the various other levels. The head
office has developed and operates an in-house computer application to keep the accounting records and
reports to the different stakeholders.
2 - Internal Control
2.1. Fnancial policies and procedures: The SFD has a set of written financial policies and procedures
that govern its financial transactions and accounting records. These are used mainly at headquarters and
referred to in the contractual agreement between SFD and its SAs. Nonetheless, in general the SFD does
not communicate those written policies and procedures on procurement and financial management
referred to in the agreements to the SAs.
During programs' implementation, at the levels of Governorates, authorities, and NGOs, most of these
SAs use their own regulations and not those of the SFD. Attachments 1, 2, and 3, summarize the review
of a set of internal and external audits, and a set of financial regulations used at one of the sponsoring
agencies visited.
2.2 Budgetary control process: The budgetary process is conducted in a sub-optimal manner. It is
diffused at different levels of the organization and, there is insufficient linkages between physical and
financial reporting. Consequently, it is not used optimally for decision making and feedback into the
budgeting process. The SFD receives monthly reports from the various SAs on the status of the
implementation of the programs both financial and physical progress. In most instances, however, these
are received separately, and are addressed to different departments at the SFD. The financial section is
sent to the Finance Department for review while the physical progress is channeled to the Planning,
Monitoring, and Evaluation division for review and advice on clearance of the next installment. While
there is review of physical progress and advice on whether to transfer the next installment, the separation
between the two reports, does not allow a proper budgetary control. In addition, the financial reports are
not used at the regional level, where the supervision of the projects' progress takes place, nor at the
implementation level. Furthermore, the analysis of the achievements against budget represent no more
than the calculation of the variances as opposed to an examination of the reasons for the variances. Such
practices do not constitute an optimal use of the budgetary process to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of SFD's work. The partial cost-recovery income of the projects is not treated explicitly neither
as an approved amount nor as an actual. Instead, it is referred to in a footnote. Treating it in such a
manner makes its control difficult. It should therefore be an integral part of the report, both as
approved/budgeted amount and as actual. The variances of all budget components for both income and
expenditures should be analyzed and fed back to the budgeting process. Currently, there is no costing of
the various activities on a per unit basis.
3 -Audit Arrangements
3.1. Internal Audit. The intenal audit capacity at the SFD is insufficient for the volume of work
expected. The SFD's regulations stipulate that at least two intemal audits take place for each project being
implemented by an SA. One at the beginning of the project and one prior to the last disbursement.
However, only less than 10 percent of the projects receive one audit, usually after the completion of the
project. While the purpose of the regulation to conduct an audit prior to a project's implementation is to



Annex 9a
Page 3 of 14
reduce the risk of lack of internal control and is supposed to give SFD management the opportunity to
ensure quality at entry, this regulation is rarely applied. It should be implemented consistently and
enforced by management. This control at entry should be complemented by the regular annual external
audits.
3.2 Annual External Audit of SFD. The SFD is audited annually by an independent auditing firm,
Mostapha Shawki & Co., affiliated with Deloitte & Touche international auditing firm. The World Bank
financial policies require that annual audits be performed for the total project, which in this case is the
Social Fund for Development. The annual audit submitted to IDA does not, however, include the audit on
a test basis of the project's components implemented by the SAs and as such is considered incomplete
and insufficient. In fact, the annual audit conducted by Mostapha Shawki & Co, represents an audit only
of the SFD Secretariat's expenditures and receipts and the various disbursements made to the projects.
The auditors do not visit the various implementation units (SAs) as part of their audit and thus their
opinion on the financial statements and internal control does not represent their opinion on the total
project. The projects implemented by SAs are an integral part of the SFD's expenditures. They represent
the main activities of the SFD and its main uses of funds. Therefore, they should be audited annually on a
sample basis and according to International Auditing Standards.
4 - LACIReporting and PMR disbursement
The current reporting of SFD has been designed to meet the various donors' requirements including those
of IDA. SFD management is considering, as a high priority, a new management information system that
integrates all aspects of project management information. The system will include reporting and
databases where physical progress, financial and procurement information, as well as impact results are
grouped together for informed decision making and to be used as a management tool at all levels of the
project implementation. This MIS is expected to undergo a pilot phase by September, 1999, and to be
finalized and installed by December 1999. The system presented to the IDA mission by the Planning,
Monitoring, and Evaluation division team of the SFD, seems to cover the Project Management Reports
information needs. The generation of PMR will be automatic as all information is captured by the
proposed system. However, there is the very important preliminary work of training and education of the
various users of the system, which needs to take place to ensure its proper use. As explained earlier, the
training is necessary to bring all users of the system to the same level of understanding in terms of the
usefulness, interpretation, and importance of the information generated at each level for day-to-day
management as well as for planning, budgeting, and control purposes.
Meanwhile, in the next few months and while the proposed system is being piloted and installed,
the SFD needs to generate a PMR using its current system. During discussions between the IDA mission
and SFD management, the steps shown in the Action Plan were agreed on. These steps are: (a) form a
multi-disciplinary task force from SFD, comprised of finance, procurement, and program staff, to work on
developing the project PMR The Task force will define inputs and outputs to the PMR based on the
model in the LACI Implementation Handbook; (b) the task force will propose forms and information to
be generated by the MIS in place; (c) to produce a draft PMRto be submitted to IDA by May 31, 2000.
5 - Staffing of the Financial Management Function at SFD
The current structure of the financial management departments (Fund management and Finance) is not
geared toward the supervisory, training, and control role that SFD should play vis-a-vis its SAs. There is
insufficient capacity and disposition to carry out this role. This is also the case at the regional offices,
which lack the supervisory and monitoring staff trained in financial and procurement issues. At the same
time, the spin-off of the EDP into an autonomous subsidiary (Small Enterprise Development Organization
(SEDO)), is expected to reduce the financial management capacity even further, through the transfer of
some of the current employees of SFD to SEDO. The IDA mission recommends that SFD undertakes a
review of its staffing needs in the areas of finance and procurement, taking into consideration the
requirements mentioned in the sections above, to ensure that enough supervision and control are in place



Annex 9a
Page 4 of 14
at all levels. SFD needs to communicate the new staffing structures, of both SEDO and SFD, and their
effectiveness date, to IDA.
6 - Special account
A special account will be opened at a central bank in Cairo and will be operated by the SFD for the IDA
credit. Initially, disbursements will be made based on the traditional World Bank's disbursements
procedures of Statement of Expenditures and replenishment of special account based on supporting
documentation, see Annex 9. Upon full implementation of the Action Plan agreed upon as shown below,
the IDA team will review the financial management arrangements to determine if the project is LACI
compliant (see Section E of Action Plan). Once IDA provides formal certification, disbursements based
on Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) can begin.
C. Financial Management Arrangements Action Plan
The IDA mission's findings have been discussed with the Head of the Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation
and the Internal Auditor at the SFD. An Action Plan to address the situation in order to improve the
financial management, as shown below, was discussed and agreed upon during this meeting. The Action
Plan was subsequently endorsed by the Managing Director (see Section A-D of Action Plan).
The nature of the SFD's work is such that all activities are implemented through a large number of
sponsoring agencies (SAs), i.e. Governorates, specialized authorities in water, sanitation, health, etc., and
NGOs. SFD is a funding agency and a wholesaler of services which supervises the work of these SAs to
achieve the objectives of the intervention. The role played by SFD dictates, thus, a particular structure
and mode of operation in order to ensure a continuous supervision and adequate controls to monitor the
work of SAs. The SFD therefore, should have the regulations, operational procedures, and management
structure that ensure that SFD and its SAs have accounting and control systems capable of reliably
recording and reporting all financial transactions. This is important for SFD to fulfill its fiduciary
requirements towards its donors and to ensure that these systems provide the necessary financial and
physical progress information to the project management at each level. To increase the efficiency of SFD
in the pursuit of its objectives, IDA recommends that these systems be operational when the project
begins, or as soon as possible thereafter upon completion of the Action Plan.
To this end, the SFD should provide: (a) training in financial management to SAs, (b) ensure that
adequate internal controls are in place and used properly, and (c) ensure a regular reporting mechanism
from the SAs to the fund, which is aggregated at the SFD level. Specifically, this requires:
*    Frequent supervision from staff competent in both technical matters and financial and
procurement matters, to ensure proper implementation, budgetary control, and efficient use
of resources and application of the governing policies and procedures of the SFD. This
means that in the medium-term the SFD structure should be geared more toward ensuring
that there are adequate internal controls at the field level.
*    The strengthening of the internal audit function to allow more frequent evaluations. It was
agreed with SFD that it will add temporary capacity to the internal audit department to
ensure that at least one audit prior to the implementation of a program component at any SA
takes place.
*    The design of appropriate procedures that ensure the internal control of all operations. The
preparation of written financial and procurement regulations and procedures to be
communicated to the levels of project implementation: (SAs including authorities and
NGOs);
*    The provision of training to the existing and new project implementation units (SAs), before
and during project implementation as needed; and finally
*    An expanded annual independent audit coverage to meet the test of adequacy.



Annex 9a
Page 5 of 14
Attachment 1
COMMENTS ON A SELECTED SAMPLE OF INTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS
The Internal Audit Department (LAD) handed the mission a sample of their audit reports. A review of
these reports revealed the following:
1.   Reports issued by Internal Audit Department (IAD) are not unified in design and do not include
detailed audit objectives, scope, or an overall opinion on the projects under review.
The report itself is merely a cover letter with findings and recommendations attached as well as to
background, payments schedule and in certain cases financial analysis for the project.
Audit Reports issued do not include formal management response and agreed upon
Action Plan to correct weaknesses detected.
2.   LAD usually conducts Financial and Compliance audits. However it was not clear whether the
review is made to ensure that projects adhered to the Bank's policies and procedures (e.g., procurement
policies) as none of the findings in any of the reports were related to deviations from SFD's regulations
and they focussed instead on the adherence to local regulations instead.
3.   In most cases, audits were conducted almost a year after the end of the project with no periodic
audits performed during the life of the project. This has led to serious problems not being discovered
while payments were disbursed. For example, an audit for Homa El Wady Project (report ref. # 615/98)
was conducted in March 1998 while the last and final installment was disbursed on June 1997. The audit
revealed that:
- The association manager resigned and took all purchasing and bidding documents with him (no
copies were present for LAD review)
- Financial records were incomplete
- Weak internal controls on cash transactions
- No supporting documents for released checks
- Discrepancies existed between project's records and the contractor.
These serious issues were detected well after the project's completion.
4.   Audit findings raise serious doubts about the project appraisal and monitoring process, as in the
audit report (performed two years after the project completion) for Abo Seer Society Development Project
(report ref. # 195/98). IAD discovered that the association had no accounting unit, and that there were no
accounting records, no bank statements, nor beneficiaries records. This association has defaulted on the
last two loan installments.
In general, Governorate inplemented projects are supposed to be audited by the Central Auditing
Agency (CAA), as part of the Governorates annual audit requirements, while NGOs are audited by their
external independent auditors. However, none of these audit reports is received by SFD.



Annex Ya
Page 6 of 14
Attachment 2
COMMENTS ON A SELECTED SAMPLE OF INTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS
Mostafa Shawki & Co (Deloitte & Touche) is the SFD's external auditor, with offices in Cairo and
Alexandria. They perform annual audits for the SFD, audit the projects after completion based on special
assigmnents by SFD.
1.   According to the SFD regulations all projects completed (i.e., closed) must be subjected to a
special audit to ensure that financial and accounting aspects of the project are reasonably sound and
accurate. However, due to the large number of projects (about 700) and the fact that they are dispersed
throughout the country, only a small number of the projects are audited by extemal audit. It is reported
that, over the past four years, on average only one special audit per year is performed.
2.   Annual audited financial statements and the accompanying disclosures are quite basic and lack:
- Adequate details for many of the financial statements accounts (e.g., during 1997 SFD purchased
fixed assets amounting to L.E. 7.8 M compared to L.E. 1.8 M during 1996. No comments were
given on that fluctuation, no schedules attached)
- Financial analysis of the project's financial statements (e.g., financial ratios, key indicators,
information per geographical area, etc.)
- Assessment of the loans' quality given by the SFD
3.   As part of the chartered accountants' annual audit process and according to GAAS the external
auditors should assess, on a sample basis, SFD's internal controls on the general secretariat level and of
the project level, on a sample basis, and issue a Management Letter for SFD's management indicating all
reportable conditions (i.e., significant deficiencies in internal control noted, if any).
Management letters are not special assignments that require additional fees.
SFD did not receive a management letter after the completion of the 1997 audit. It did receive one
finding report after the 1996 audit.
4.   According to GAAS, external auditors are recommended to submit annually an engagement letter.
This letter would clearly indicate the auditors responsibility and that of the management. Issuance of
such a letter is essential, especially when there are changes in circumstances or management. Shawki &
Co last sent an engagement letter to SFD in 1991, which is now very out-dated given all the changes (e.g.
scope of audit, SFD needs, etc.) that occurred the last eight years.



Annex 9a
Page 7 of 14
Attachment 3
A REVIEW OF SELECTED PROJECT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS
SFD funded projects should have a Financial Management Manual to document the operation of
the project Financial Management System. The Financial Management Manual would be formally
adopted by project management as the document which would govem all financial management aspects
of the project.
The Manual should cover the following aspects:
- Flow of funds;
- Accounting policies and procedures;
- Accounting system and internal control mechanisms;
- Chart of accounts;
- Financial reporting (including fonnats of financial management reports);
- Auditing arrangements;
- Organization and staffing for fnancial management functions
The Financial ManagermLent Manual should be periodically updated and improved based on
implementation experience.
The mission reviewed the Financial Regulations approved and adopted for one of the SFD projects,
Al Mannoufia Project for the enhancement of standard of living. It is noted that they represent more a set
of guidelines and are in nature that is not tied to the project operations.
Accounting Procedures ensure transparency, provide clarity regarding financial aspects to the
various stakeholders and finance staff, ensure uniformity and enforce accountability. These policies
should cover the following aspects:
- Methods of recording in the accounting books and records;
- Books and records to be maintained;
- Budgetary controls;
- Inventory control;
- Debt management;
- Write-offs;
- Form and timing of financial statements;
- Expenditures which would be treated as project expenditures including
their classification.



Annex 9a
Page 8 of 14
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development
PROCUREMENT ASSESSMENT
A. Current Procurement Function at the SFD
There is no procurement unit per se at the SFD. At the General Secretariat in Cairo, there is an
Administrative Unit falling under the Financial Department. This unit is responsible for procuring non-
project related items (furniture, vehicles, renovation of office space, office supplies, etc.). The personnel
involved in this activity have no formal training in procurement.
The Programs of the SFD (Community Development, Public Works, Human Resources, etc.) have no
procurement unit. The Programs are responsible for preparing the Project Appraisal Document which
describes the scope of works, timeframe, feasibility and sustainability, and monitoring project progress.
Procurement of civil works, goods, and consultants are handled by the Sponsoring Agencies/NGOs.
These units are staffed with personnel familiar with procurement processes under the Egyptian Law.
B. Current Practices
Once requests are received from the SA or NGO, the preparation of an Appraisal Document is
undertaken. This document outlines the scope of works (the project and its sub-projects), feasibility,
sustainability, terms and conditions (criteria), project cost, disbursement schedule, and schedule. The
sub-projects are below the procurement threshold of LE 600,000 (equivalent to US$176,000) for CDP
and LE 400,000 (equivalent to US$118,000) for PWP. This document is approved by the SFD, and
implementation takes place, with the set-up of the project management unit (Sponsoring Agency (SA) or
NGO), disbursement of the first tranche, and contracting of the suppliers/contractors by the SAs/NGOs.
Procuring of civil works/goods/consultant services is undertaken at the SA/NGO level. Under the PWP,
standard contracts and methodology for project management are used by the implementing agencies. CDP
does not use standard contracts or purchase orders, and the implementing agencies do not have an
operations manual to guide them on proper procurement methodologies.
Reporting and monitoring are submitted by the implementing agency/contractor on a monthly basis to the
SA/NGO, who compiles the information and submits it to the SFD's regional office who in turns sends
the information to the General Secretariat of the SFD. The monthly reports vary in detail from level to
level, with in-depth detail on contract management emanating from the contractor/implementing agency
level.
C. LACI Reporting and PMR Disbursement
As stated in the Review of the Financial Management System, the management information system is
being revamped to better monitor physical and financial progress. However, given the nature of the sub-
projects being financed, planning is done on an ad hoc basis (as requests come in) and therefore, a more
structured system would need to be adopted, especially for procurement planning&and monitoring. The
new system being developed would be implemented in a phased approach, targeting five regional offices
in the first phase. The five regional offices would need to be staffed each with at least one person who is
familiar with procurement processes. This person would be trained in procurement planning and
especially procurement monitoring (ensuring that the guidelines used are being followed, reviewing field
level procurement documentation, etc.). This individual would in tum train the other project officers in
proper procurement planning/monitoring. Dissemination of best practices would also need to take place



Annex 9a
Page 9 of 14
from the regional offices to the SA and NGOs. Though a detailed procurement planning exercise under
the PMR system may not be readily available, a modified report could be established which would
enhance SFD's monitoring and plnning tools and would be part of the draft PMR report to be submitted
to the Bank following activities completed under the Action Plan.
The procurement assessment found that though it is stated in the SFD's Operations Manual that World
Bank Guidelines would apply, this is not generally the case as procurement activities are being
undertaken at the field level (SAs/NGOs) and the Egyptian Law is the method being applied by those
agencies. It is not clear whether the World Bank Guidelines have been properly disseminated and
explained in relation to IDA funded activities. In addition, despite progress found in the new procurement
Egyptian Law #89, there still exist contradictions such as the two-envelope system, negotiation under
evaluation procedures, etc. Thse issues will have to be resolved, especially under IDA funded activities.



Annex 9a
Page 10 of 14
Egypt Third Social Fund Development Project
Financial Management and Procurement Systems Action Plan
PAD NO. 19044-EGT
Issue/Problem              Amount                Renedial Action              Responsible   Due Date   Remarks
Task Team
_  Member
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
A. A more conmprehensive audit coverage.           A new audit contract considering the quality        04-20-1999   Done
and coverage of audit required. TORs
should be sent to the Bank for clearance.
A. I External Audit:
a) Auditors engagement letter needs to be          Review the auditors engagement letter.              04-30-1999
issued annually to match SFD's needs as it
evolves.
b) Need to appoint auditors for the Third         Auditors appointed for the Phase III of the          08-31-1999
Phase of the SFD.                                 project.
A.2 InternalAudit:
Increase the capacity of the internal audit to     Short-tern consultants appointed to increase        06-30-1999
ensure at least one evaluation of SA's            the internal audit capacity.
internal controls and capacity before project.
implementation.
B  Ensuring closer monitoring and
supervision ofproject components in the
field
B. I Monitoring & supervision
a) Determine quarterly indicators of project      Quarterly indicators are set for at least the        07-31-1999
progress with the appropriate levels of           first year of the project, for each component
management particularly those responsible          of the SFD 111, and sub-component by SA.
for their achievements.
b) SA staff are insufficiently trained on         Arrange for the design of training package to        07-31-1999



Annex 9a
Page 11 of 14
financial management and procurement             be conducted by a consultant to ensure that
aspects of the project as spelled out in the     the SA staff are well trained on financial
SFD's revised operational procedures.            management and procurement aspects of the
project as spelled out in the SFD's revised
operational procedures.
Issue the training package in financial,
procurement management and reporting
requirements for use to conduct the training
in B. 1 .c below.
c) Increase the SFD supervision of financial     Complete first training course for at least 25      11-30-1999
and procurement capacity at the regional         regional and field staff in financial and
level (through training) to monitor closely      procurement management and new reporting
and regularly the financial management at the    requirements.
field level.
C. Internal control mechanisms
Review existing regulations and procedures       Issue a revised operational procedures              09-30-1999
to ensure that they are comprehensive            manual including budgetary control, internal
(including the new reporting requirements)       control, and new reporting requirements.
and are communicated to all levels of project
management (including implementation
agencies) along with the contractual
agreements.
D. Review of the staffing structure of the
financial managementfunction at SFD
a) The spinning off of the EDP program           Decision regarding the split between SFD            10-15-1999
requires that a decision be made on the          and SEDO financial management staff made
effectiveness of the restructuring of both       and communicated to IDA.
SEDO and SFD financial departments, in
particular in light of the transfer of some of
the current employees from SFD to SEDO.
b) Review the staffing needs of the financial    Propose a structure of the financial                11-30-1999



Annex 9a
Page 12 of 14
managementfuncton at SFD to ensure that          management function taking into account the
enough supervision and control are in place      above proposals.
at all levels.
Implement the structure, including staffing,
following agreement with IDA.                     11-30-1999
E New reporting requiremnts
a) MIS capability to generate PMR reports.       1. Review the new MIS for adequacy for            Ongoing
PMR generation.                                   07-31-1999
2. Implement any recommended changes              11-15-1999
arising from the review.
b) Need to produce integrated Project            A task force to be nominated (made up of          06-01-1999
Monitoring report.                              financial, procurement and program
specialists) and held responsible for
preparing the report and integrating it in the
SFD MIS system.
c) A draft report based on LACI                  A draft Project Management Report (PMR)           05-31-2000
requirements as discussed between the IDA        as per discussions with the IDA mission
mission and the Fund Management, Internal        members and according to the sample report
Audit personnel, and the Head of Planning &      in the LACI Implementation Handbook of
Evaluation Dept., should be issued for           the World Bank, produced and tested on a
discussion and feedback by IDA.                  pilot basis for two quarters (CY99 40 Qtr,
and CY2000 1                                      _tr_    _
F. Fundingfor the additional reporting,          Estimate costs of program; identify funding       04-22-1999   Done
training and system development should be        and confirm its existence to IDA.
identified.



Annex 9a
Page 13 of 14
PROCUREMENT                                                     v
1. Weaknesses in monitoring             a) Prepare and agree with IDA            04-22-1999        Done
and supervision of procurement          on a TOR for a Technical
activities.                             Procurement Audit.
b) Contract with an
independent consulting firm to          Technical
carry out a Technical                   Procurement Audit
Procurement Audit on ongoing            to be completed by
projects with submission of a            11-30-1999
report detailing specific
recommendations for
improvement.
c) Implement
recommendations on above                05-31-2000
report following agreement
with IDA.
2. Reinforce evaluation    NA           Issue directive to all levels of   SFD   07-31-1999
procedures at all levels                the organization.
according to guidelines.



Annex 9a
Page 14 of 14
3. Project staff require proper   US$3,000    Provide training to key  World Bank   07-31-1999 (Initial  The World Bank
training in procurement                  personnel. World Bank       Resident      Training)          Resident Mission can
monitoring methods (review of            resident mission can provide    Mission                      provide an agenda for the
procurement documents, etc.)             best practice methodology                 09-30-1999         training, best practice
through a three-day training             (Follow-up         guidelines, etc., in
exercise (renewable on a need            Training)          addition to basing the
basis). This would also apply                               training on the revised
to the 5 key Regional Offices                               Operations Manual. This
under the new framework who                                 could be provide at the
will become the trainer of                                  time of project launch.
trainers.
4. Inadequate or non existing    NA      CDP to develop standard     CDP           07-31-1999
standard contract formats at             formats for specification
Community Development                    documents, contracts, and
Program (CDP) level.                     purchase orders for their
projects (example is using the
World Bank guidelines on
Community Based
Development) until merger
complete for CDP and PWP.
5. No standard vendor or price           CDP to instill method of    CDP           07-31-1999
list at CDP level.                       recording historical price lists
and vendor list for evaluation
purposes.



Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Inadequate Financial and/or Procurement Management System
Part I - Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective
of the review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial
management system as required by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the
Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the
assessment of the project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and
financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of
the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the Borrower in support of
Withdrawal Applications.
In my opinion, the project does not satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with
an agreed action plan to be undertaken by the Borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:       4,            C  6              /
Financial Management Specialist    (2  Th                          q I ;16
(FMS-OPR)                                 v                        L
Name, Dept./Div.               Date
Part II - Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project.
The objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract
management system adopted by the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for
procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project
Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan"
guidelines issued by the Bank.
In my opinion, the project does not satisfy the Bank's minimum procurement
management requirements.
1



I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with
an agreed action plan by the Borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Procurement Specialist       _/______ _________
Name,'Dept./Div.              Date
Signed bjy                      -       
Task Manage                    David Steel, MNSHD 



Annexc 10
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (USS000)                Pann                       Aul
(At final PCD stage)
UJSS410.2             USS274.2 (to 3/29/99)
B. Project Schedule                       P                          Aca
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)     10/03/1998                  10/03/1998
Appraisal mission departure             02/08/1999                 02/08/1999
Negotiations                            04/05/1999                  04/17/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness           12/31/1999                  12/31/1999
Prepared by: Social Fund for Development
Prepartion assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speialt
David Steel                         Principal Operations Officer
Judith Brandsma                        Private Sector Specialist
Rafika Chaouali                     Financial Management Specialist
Douglas Graham                      Senior Implementation Specialist
Amira Kazem                                 Economist
Luca Frontini                               Economist
Elena Volpi                              Social Scientist
Sawsan El-Messiri                           Social Scientist
Kenneth Green                          Environment Specialist
Walid Gamaleldin                         Environment Specialist
Eileen B. Sullivan                        Operations Analyst
Badr Kamel                              Operations Officer
Claudine Kader                        Language Team Assistant
Julia Van Domelen                            Sr. Economist
Bildi Randhawa                             Peer Reviewer
David Berk                               Peer Reviewer
Willem Struben                             Peer Reviewer



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt
Third Social Fund for Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan (March, 1999)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Egypt Participatory Poverty Assessment, draft document (August, 1998)
Social Assessment Reports, Markaz Metareya, Dakahliya Govemorate,
& Aswan Governorate, El Messeri (January, 1999)
Egypt Fund Social Assessment (Full Document)
Financial Management Assessment (includes Procurement Assessment)
Environmental Evaluation of Previous Projects
C. Other
Organization Chart, Social Fund (December, 1998)
Presidential Decree Number 40 for 1991 on Establishing the Social Fund for
Development
Social Fund for Development Annual Report 1998
SFD Financial Statement (January, 1999)
SFD Phase I Status Report as of 12/31/98
Information Technology Mission Statement (MIS) (February, 1999)
SFD Cash Flow Forecast, 1999-2003 (February 25, 1999)
SFD Project Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (September, 1998)
Project Knowledge Management System (PKMS) (February, 1999)
Social Fund Beyond the Year 2000, Glovinsky, UNDP (January, 1999)
The Social Fund for Development - A Future Outlook (February 4, 1999)
Training Course Series on Project Life Cycle/Project Management Development
(April, 1999)
Human Resources Development Program Operational Manual (April, 1997)
Human Resources Development Program, Actual Outputs for Projects Funded
through IDA (October, 1998)
Gender Unit Operational Manual (April, 1997)
Upper Egypt Integrated Sustainable Development Program, SFD Project
Proposal (December, 1998)
Delta and Upper Egypt Environmental Infrastructure Project, draft document
(Arabic) (January, 1999)
Public Works Program Operational Manual (November, 1997)
Public Works Program Project Appraisal document (February, 1999)
Public Works Program, Outputs Achieved 1996-98 (February, 1998)
PWP Infrastructure Projects Completed by Govtm. thru June, 1998
(November, 1998)
PWP Project Pipeline (1997-2000) (October, 1998)
A New Role to operations & maintenance etc., PWP, SFD (undated)
Sustainable Operation and Maintenance of Public Infrastructure (Terms of
Reference for Consulting Services)



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
PWP Small Scale Contractor Training, Final Plan, Chemonics Inc.
(November, 1998)
Community Development Program Operational Manual (November, 1997)
CDP Phase II Projects Completed by Government through December, 1998
(February, 1999)
CDP Project Pipeline (1997-2000) (February, 1999)
Community Based Integrated Development, Approach Paper (February, 1999)
Operations & Maintenance for Community Development (October, 1998)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 12
Page 1 of2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Egypt, Arab Republic of
Operations Portfolio
As of 29-Mar-99
Difference Between expected.
and actul
Orisinai Amount in USS Million                     disbuwscwnts a/
Fiscal
Project ID      Year                 Bonrower                   Purpose
IBRD          IDA         Cancellations     Undisbuned          Oris  Frm Rev'd
Nwnber ofCloed Projects: 81
Active Pro'et
EG-PEf40858        1999                                         SOHAG RURAL DfV.                                0.00         25.00          0.00               25.33          0.00          0.00
EG-PE-41410        1999    GOVERNMENTOFEGYPT                    P.S. REHAB. III                               120.00          0.00          0.00               120.00         0.00          0.00
EG-PE-45175        1998    GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT                  HEALTHSECTOR                                    0.00         90.00          0.00               *5.03          -2.63         0.00
EG-PE-49166        1998                                         EASTDELTAAG.SERV.                               000          15.00          000                 15.12         2.06          0.00
EG-PE.54958        1998    GOVERNMENT OFEGYPT                   POLLUTION ABATEMENT                            20.00         15.00          0.00               34.85           1.04         000
EG-PE-57704        1998    GOVERNMENT                           PORT SECTOR REFORM                              0.00          2.00          0.00                2.03           .81          0.00
EG-PE-5169         1997    GOE                                  ED.ENHANCEMENT PROG.                            0.00         75.00         0.00                66.24         22.40          6.02
EG-PE-43102        1996    GOVERNMENT                           SOCIAL FUND 11                                  0.00        120.00         000                 26.63         .1.31          0.00
EG-PE-5163         1996    GOE                                  POPULATION                                      0.00         17.20         0.00                15.04          7.25          -.91
EG-PE-5173         1995    MPWR                                 EGYPT IRIGATION IMP                            26.70         53.30         0.00                71.53         24.81          0.00
EG-PE-5157         1994    GOEtPBDAC                            AGRICULTURAL MODERNI                           54.00         67.00         0.00                12.34        -33.84          0.00
EG-PE.5153         1993    GOVERNMENTOFEGYPT                    MATRUHRESOURCEMANA                              0.00         22.00         0.00                12.69          7.95         *1.29
EG-PE-5161         1993    GOB                                  EASIC EDUCATION PROJ                            0.00         55.50         0.00                 14.45        12.80          .11
EG-PE.5168         1993    GOVERNMENT                           PVTSECTOURISMINF&ENV                          260.00          0.00        188.00                19.79        69.12           .32
EG-PE-5146         1992    GOVERNMENTOFEGYPT                    NATIONAL DRAINAGE                              45.00         75.00          0.00               20.84           -.90         0.00
EG-PE-5152         1992    GOVERNMENT                           SCHISTOSOMIASISCONT                             0.00         26.84          0.00                16.87        14.43          3.56
EG-PE-5111         1991    EGPC                                 GASINVESTMENTPROJE                             84.00          0.00          0.00                 5.88         5.S8          0.00
Total                                                                                                         609.70        658.84       18.00                564.66       129.87          7.U1
Active  rjef Closd   a1
Toal Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                         504.69               3.621.14              4,125.83
of which hs been repaid:                             11.68               2,070.49              2.082.17
Tota now  eld by IRD and IDA:                        1.06S6.                1,556.40             2625.26
Amount sold         :                                    0.00                   7.48                  7.48
Of whieh repaid                                        0.00                   7.48                  7.48
Total Undisbursed                                      564.66                   2.23                566.89
a. Intended disbursiesnts to date minus actual disbursements to date.as projeced at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end ofthe firt week ofthe nmonth and is currently as of 28-Feb-99.
Generated by the Operations hiformation System (OIS)



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Egypt, Arab Republic of
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval              Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
198288                  Luxor Hotel               0.00     .46     0.00     0.00     0.00     .46     0.00     0.00
1983/91194/92V96198     ANSDK                    74.29    22.74    0.00    50.00    14.29    17.10    0.00     0.00
1986t88/92              Meleiha Oil               0.00    30.82    0.00     0.00     0.00     .03     0.00     0.00
1992                    Misr Compressor           9.70     3.77    0.00     0.00     9.70    3.77     0.00     0.00
1992/97/98              Carbon Black-EGT         16.00     2.96    0.00     0.00     8.50    2.96     0.00     0.00
1993                    Cmrcl Intl Bank           0.00    15.59    0.00     0.00     0.00    15.59    0.00     0.00
1994                    Club Ras Soma             4.79     2.40    0.00     0.00     4.79    2.37     0.00     0.00
1994/96/99              AbuSomaDevelop            0.00     1.49    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.12    0.00     0.00
1996                    Apache Corp.              0.00     9.33    0.00     0.00     0.00    9.33     0.00     0.00
1996                    Orix Leasing EGT          0.00     .89     0.00     0.00     0.00     .89     0.00     0.00
1997                    Egypt Trust               0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00
1997                    ECC                      35.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    15.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                    MGDK                      4.00     1.50    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.47    0.00     0.00
1997                    UNI                       5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997/99                 Orascom                  20.00     4.85    0.00     0.00    16.00    4.85     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                     168.78   101.80    0.00    50.00    73.28    64.94    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equitv   Ouasi   Partic
1999                    CIB L&G LIFE              0.00     1.77    0.00     0.00
1999                    HCSI                      0.00     1.40    0.00     0.00
1996                    ORIX LEASING EGT          5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997                    UNIPAK-NILE               0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00
Total Pending Commitment:              5.00    3.17     0.00     5.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Arab Republic of Egypt                                                                  918t98
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Egypt    Africa   Income       Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       60.3       283     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methoa, US$)                   1,180     2,060     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      71.2       583     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         2.0       2.3       1.2
Labor force (%)                                        2.8       3.2       1.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                 45         57        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       66         67        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               51         48        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              9          ..       ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 64         71        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   49         39        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   100        97       ill              Egypt, ArabRep.
Male                                                107        102       116              Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                               93         91       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratiosV
GDP (US$ billions)                           13.4     35.9      67.6      75.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                28.4     23.7      16.6      17.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP            22.3     15.7      20.2      20.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   16.7     13.8      10.8      13.0
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       ..      15.8      18.8
Current account balance/GDP                 -10.2     -9.4        1.6      0.6      Domestic                    Ivte
Interest payments/GDP                         0.5      2.4       1.5       1.0                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                               47.6     84.8      46.3      39.7     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                    6.4      8.4       11.5      8.9
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      30.9
Present value of debt/exports                   ,        ..    105.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  7.1      4.0      5.0       5.5       5.2         -Egypt, Arab Rep.
GNP per capita                       3.7      2.3      3.6       3.1       4.0               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        2.7      5.9      1.6       2.4      10.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1 976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                  28.3     20.8      17.3      17.7      1 5
Industry                                     26.2     26.8      31.6      31.8                       o
Manufacturing                              16.1     13.3       24.3      25.2                       94   95   96   97
Services                                     45.5     52.4      51.1      50.5    -15 
Private consumption                          58.5     69.6      78.8      76.8    -30
General government consumption               24.8     16.5      10.4      10.2                     GDI    - -GDP
Imports of goods and services                34.0     25.6      26.0      24.9
(average annual growth)                  1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   3.0      2.8       3.1       3.4    15
Industry                                      8.4      4.5       4.9       4.6    1C
Manufacturing                                ..      4.9        6.9       8.3     s
Services                                      9.7      3.8       5.6       6.4
Private consumption                           6.2      4.7       3.6       3.9
General government consumption                5.0      0.5       2.4       4.8
Gross domestic investment                     6.9     -0.4       9.7      10.4   -10
Imports of goods and services                 3.2      2.4       1.6       1.9                   Exports   -* l mports
Gross national product                        6.4      4.4       5.5       6.1            .-
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Egypt, Arab Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation(%)
Domeszie prices                                                                     2
(% change)                                                                          25
Consumer prices                                                   8.3       4.6    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         12.5     12.8       9.0       6.2    15r
10
Govemment finance                                                                    s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                        21.3      25.1      23.7             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                -14.2       2.5       2.9             -     GDP deflator  -   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -23.1      -1.3      -0.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                             4,608     4,930     20.000
Cottom                                                          110       107
Other Agriculture                                               230       164     10.000
Manufactures                                                   1,314     1,304
Total imports (cif)                                            14,107    14,718     10,000
Food                                           .        ..     2,955    3,193
Fuel and energy
Capital goods                                  .        ..     4,10-0    4,029 
51  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..       127       128
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..       145       145               HExports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .        *         87        89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mililons)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               3,319    6,494     15,245    15,644     10-
Imports of goods and services               5,182   11,825    17,541    20,342
Resource balance                            -1,863   -5,331    -2,296    -4,698     10.
Net income                                   -342   -1,021        539      253       5
Net current lransfers                         842    2,995      2,842     4,146
Current account balance                    -1,363   -3,357      1,085      -299               92    3    4   95  96   97
Financing items (net)                        1,049    3,533      -515     2,211    -s
Changes in net reserves                       314      -176      -570    -1,912     -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           -   1,780    17,867    19,657
Conversion rate (DEC, localVUS$)               0.5      1.1        3.4      3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     0 Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         6,357   30,415    31,299    29,979
IBRD                                         50    1,228      1,075       869                       A 869
IDA                                         126      827      1,090     1,206                G:2,991      B: 1,206
Total debt service                            267       837     2,283     1,871          F 1,286            D, 01,36
IBRD                                          3      243        272       297
IDA                                           1        12        23        24
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             910        0      1,324
Official creditors                          841    1,712        -17        19                   _
Private creditors                           122      534       -376      -157
Foreign direct investment                    61        0        636
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0                                 E 21,791
World Bank program
Commitments                                 197      617        172        75     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                78      369        108       260     B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Prtvate
Principal repayments                          0      114        192      241      C-IMF                         G-Short-term
Net flows                                    78      256        -84        19   1                                           1
Interest payments                             4      141        102        80
Net transfers                                74      115       -186      -61
Source: MNA CMU.                                                                                                      9118/98
BoP estimates for 1996 and 1997 are preliminary and subject to revision.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IBRD 27759
<'A4e~~Werr~~ tfe~~n    &ea.~~..                                                    32-
Marsa Matrui
YJORDAN
ra      SoISRAEL
Car,~~,,
Ro    ~~Suez                                       f
i  ARAB  REPUBLIC                                                  nuef                                   -I
-280Ow  F  E G Y P T                   El Minya                           <              X                  SAUDI
280                                                                                                                            ARABIA 280_
Hurghad%
0       SELECTED CITIES
This mwsrc t NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        xor
- ' RIVERS
CULTIVATED AREAS
2|4 suhsudae,an/ 
o       50       100      150 MILES997
o    50   100  150  KILOMETERS
olsmo  aspauced  Ilte Map Design Unit afTe Wrid Ba,,,nk
Ithebounac,"'rri`es,lrs enmnetian anny  othr in~ran shown an                          SUA
tsmodantiply an the port of The Ward Bank Group, any judgment
an the legal.ou tytriay or any  em~snent or acceptance ot                      2                                             6
such boundaries.3236
APRIL 1 997



