             Document of
          The World Bank




                              Report No:ICR-0000000097




IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

            (IDA-32300)

               ON A

              CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

              TO THE

      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

              FOR A

         EG-SOCIAL FUND III

          November 9, 2006

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/01/1999 )
                                Currency Unit = EGP
                                    EGP 1.00 = US$ 0.293
                                    US$ 1.00 = EGP 3.41


                                        Fiscal Year
                                     July 1 - June 30




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CDP   Community Development Program
CLD   Community and Local Development
DANIDA Danish Agency for Development Assistance
EMP   Environment Management Plan
FY    Fiscal Year
GOE   Government of Egypt
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA   International Development Association
KfW   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbrau (German Developemt Bank)
L.E.  Egyptian Pound
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MDRM  Multi-Donor Review Mission
MTR   Mid-Term Review
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
O&M   Operations and Maintenance
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PWP   Public Works Program
QAG    Quality Assessment Group
SFD   Social Fund for Development
TASFD Technical Assistance for the Social Fund for Development



                             Vice President: Daniela Gressani

                           Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi

                            Sector Manager: David J. Steel

                        Project Team Leader: Alaa Mahmoud Hamed Abdel-Hamid

                                                            Egypt
                                             EG-SOCIAL FUND III


                                                      CONTENTS




1. Basic Information...............................................................................................................1
2. Key Dates ...........................................................................................................................1
3. Ratings Summary ...............................................................................................................1
4. Sector and Theme Codes....................................................................................................2
5. Bank Staff...........................................................................................................................2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................................5
8. Assessment of Outcomes....................................................................................................8
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................12
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...........................................................13
11. Lessons Learned.............................................................................................................16
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ................17
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................18
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................20
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................................21
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.........................................................................................22
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).........24
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................29
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .........................................31
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)......................................................................32
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) .............................................35
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...........................36
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.............................52
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents............................................................................53
MAP .....................................................................................................................................54

1. Basic Information
Country:                 Egypt                  Project Name:           EG-SOCIAL FUND III
Project ID:              P052705                L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-32300
ICR Date:                11/09/2006             ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                    Borrower:               GOVT.
Original Total
                         XDR 36.9M              Disbursed Amount:       XDR 36.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies


The Social Fund for Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

      Process               Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:     09/22/1998         Effectiveness:     12/09/2000         12/09/2000
Appraisal:          02/08/1999         Restructuring(s):
Approval:           06/01/1999         Mid-term Review:                      12/24/2003
                                       Closing:           12/31/2002         02/28/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance       Indicators       QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):          None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                  Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):    Satisfactory
(Yes/No):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                  Satisfactory
status:




                                                1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                    Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                      10                14
Micro- and SME finance                                        15
Health                                                        11                19
Other social services                                         64                67
                                               Original Priority  Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Small and medium enterprise support             Primary           Not Applicable
Improving labor markets                         Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement              Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure               Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                          Positions                 At ICR          At Approval
Vice President:                                Daniela Gressani  Kemal Dervis
Country Director:                              Emmanuel Mbi      Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:                                David J. Steel    Jacques F. Baudouy
                                               Alaa Mahmoud
Project Team Leader:                           Hamed Abdel-      David J. Steel
                                               Hamid
ICR Team Leader:                               David J. Steel
ICR Primary Author:                            Margo A. Hoftijzer




                                           2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


At project inception, Egypt had successfully completed its economic stabilization program and had
started the more difficult economic restructuring phase. Economic growth had resumed but the country
needed to spread the benefits of this growth through job creation and poverty reduction. The Social
Fund for Development (SFD) was one of the Government's main instruments to finance programs and
services targeted to the unemployed and poor. The SFD is a legally autonomous, permanent and well
established development organization with a 15 year track record of providing support to needy and
underserved communities. Established in 1991, the SFD's initial key objective was to help mitigate the
negative effects of Egypt's structural adjustment programs. In 1999, the SFD obtained a permanent
mandate to focus on job creation, which was and still remains a key priority for the Government of
Egypt. Since the creation of the Small Enterprise for Development Organization (SEDO) within the
SFD in 1999, approximately two thirds of available funding each year has been disbursed through
SEDO. Public works and community development interventions have been allocated 13 percent and
10 percent of total disbursements, respectively.

The SFD has been capable of mobilizing large amounts of donor resources through grants and loans
from more than 20 multilateral and bilateral donors. During its first two implementation phases (1993-
2000), approximately 60 percent of committed funds originated from foreign donors, including the
European Union (US$420 million), IDA (US$260 million), Germany (US$143 million), the Arab
Fund for Development (US$113 million), the African Development Bank (US$21 million), the Islamic
Bank for Development (US$10.2 million), Denmark (US$12 million), and UNDP (US$10 million).
During this period the Government of Egypt contributed US$177 million (Source: Multi Donor
Review Report 2004). SFD disbursements exceed US$1.3 billion with IDA financing totaling less than
25 percent of this amount.

The World Bank has been a lead agency in developing and supporting the SFD and has granted three
IDA credits to the SFD. The first credit was granted in 1992 totaling US$140 million for the
Emergency Social Fund Project (Cr 2276-EG). This was followed by a second credit (Cr. 2865-EG)
for US$120 million for the Social Fund II Project and a third credit in FY99 totaling US$50 million
for the Social Fund III Project for which this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is being
prepared. The main lessons learned from the first two phases of IDA were that the SFD had achieved
good outcomes, but that increased attention needed to be paid to the sustainability of physical assets,
sub-project effectiveness (especially in terms of increased community participation and social impact),
targeting, and the need to carry out systematic impact assessments.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The projects objective was to help create jobs and provide community infrastructure and services
through labor intensive works. The project was seen as an extension of the second phase of the SFD
community infrastructure program, which was being implemented successfully and during which a
number of subprojects had been identified for which additional funding was needed. Key performance
indicators were the creation of permanent (2,500) and temporary (20,000) jobs, labor intensity (an
overall ratio of 30%), and extensive quantitative output indicators ranging from numbers of illiteracy




                                                    3

program graduates to kilometers of roads paved (see Annex 4).

These objectives responded to the country context and development priorities. At the time of project
preparation, the Government's priority was to spread the benefits of economic growth by accelerating
private sector led growth, employment creation and poverty reduction. These objectives were well
defined and realistic. They aimed at reducing poverty and creating temporary and permanent
employment opportunities, developing human capacity, and improving rural infrastructure. The
project was also consistent with the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy dated May 25, 1997,
which mirrored those of the Government: supporting private sector led growth and human resources
development to reduce unemployment and raise living standards.

The project objectives responded to pressing constraints which were hindering Egypt 's social and
economic development, which were a lack of jobs, and poverty. It was further justified by a substantial
backlog of beneficiary requests to the SFD for investments in small scale infrastructure. The project
objective was quite broad, giving the Government and the SFD flexibility to finance innovative
activities and/or accommodate beneficiary requests. The project components were consistent with the
project objectives, as they supported the creation of temporary and permanent employment, and the
development of community infrastructure as a means of improving the quality of life of poor people.
The objectives were straightforward, especially for an agency such as the SFD, which at the time had
an eight year track record in employment creation and infrastructure rehabilitation.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The objectives were not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well
as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The project's primary target group consisted of the groups of poor that were excluded from the benefits
of resumed growth. In addition to directly and indirectly benefiting individuals and households, the
project would help improve the capacity of NGOs, intermediary agencies, and communities to carry
out development activities.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of two components: the Public Works Program (PWP) and the Community
Development Program (CDP). These components were designed in a way that if properly
implemented would achieve the project development objective of creating jobs and providing
community infrastructure and services through labor intensive works.

Public Works Program (US$33 million, 66% of total credit). This component was to be a continuation
of the SFD's ongoing Public Works Program. The component would consist of small scale public
works programs to be implemented in partnership with communities and local governments, executed
by small local private contractors. Projects to be funded would include construction, rehabilitation and
repair of irrigation and drainage canals, water supply and sewerage systems, rehabilitation and paving
of rural roads, rehabilitation of public buildings, and maintenance related activities including among
others canal cleaning, solid waste collection, and disposal. This component would fund approximately
14 percent of identified but unfunded sub-projects in the PWP pipeline.



                                                    4

Community Development Program (US$17 million, 34% of credit). The main objective of this
component was to support the development of community infrastructure and services, in partnership
with local groups, to reduce poverty and improve quality of life, and to promote community and NGO
participation. Project funds would be mainly allocated to programs in education, training, and health.
This component would fund approximately 15 percent of identified but unfunded sub-projects in the
CDP pipeline, excluding micro-enterprise programs which were adequately funded by other donors.

Unlike other social investment fund projects (including the first two phases of Bank support to the
SFD) this project did not fund an institutional development component, as the Government was keen
on utilizing proceeds from the IDA credit for job creation programs and investments in infrastructure.
Operating costs including staff salaries were to be funded by the Government as its counterpart
funding contribution to the project.

6.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

On two occasions, in February 2003 and during the December 2003 mid-term review (MTR), the SFD
management and the project's Task Team Leader agreed to adjustments in output indicators. This was
due to implementation delays, new directions in sector policies (such as the Ministry of Education's
increased priority to literacy programs), and currency fluctuations. [During the life span of the project,
currency fluctuations between the SDR and the US dollar resulted in an increase of the actual credit
amount from US$50 million to US$53.7 million. In combination with the devaluation of the Egyptian
Pound vis à vis the US dollar, this resulted in an increase of the total credit amount in Egyptian Pounds
from L.E.170 million in 1999 to L.E.310 million in 2003]. In February 2003, there was a reallocation
of US$7 million from the CDP to the PWP component, increasing PWP IDA-funds from US$33
million to US$40 million, and decreasing CDP IDA-funds from US$17 million to US$10 million. The
reallocation was made due to the shorter implementation cycle of public works activities relative to
those of the CDP, and the capacity of PWP "sponsoring agencies" to implement sub-projects faster
than NGOs in CDP. (See Annex 1 for original and revised final output indicators.)

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project did not benefit from a Quality at Entry Review. This ICR rates Quality at Entry as
moderately satisfactory, as the project helped achieve the Bank's strategic goal to remain involved in
poverty alleviation programs in Egypt and the most pressing, although not all, institutional
shortcomings at the time were addressed during project preparation.

The project rationale addressed the strategic role of the project within the broader country, poverty
reduction, and sector strategies. The project was a central pillar in the Government's poverty
alleviation and rural development strategies. The project design was kept simple, which helped
maintain the focus on the projects objectives, and was in compliance with Bank safeguard policies.
Economic rates of return and cost benefit ratios were estimated to be adequate. The project design



                                                     5

benefited from a social assessment which provided some insight on beneficiary participation.
Government commitment at entry was adequately demonstrated since it was taking steps to transform
the SFD into a permanent institution responsible for employment creation and poverty alleviation.
Furthermore, there was strong commitment from the 26 Governorates who were keen on becoming
key SFD partners.

The project was prepared as a repeater "fast track" project, which achieved the Bank's strategic goal of
remaining engaged in poverty alleviation programs in Egypt. The task team faced time constraints due
to Bank's management wish to ensure that the SFD could benefit from the last US$50 million IDA
allocation (initially programmed for another project). On this basis, the project was prepared as a
"bridge loan" and prepared on a fast track basis, whereby four months elapsed between appraisal and
board presentation. This approach was deemed justified as the SFD was an established institution with
a strong track-record and a pre-identified pipeline of sub-projects, and was making adequate progress
in addressing a number of institutional shortcomings that had been recognized as 'lessons learned'
during the implementation of the prior projects in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, poverty
targeting, and operations and maintenance. These shortcomings were described in the PAD and
corrective measures to address them were discussed. Shortcomings in the area of financial
management were the focus at appraisal and resulted in several credit effectiveness conditions. The
PAD also mentioned the parallel and joint financing of the SFD and the health and education sectors
by approximately 15 other donors.

Due to the SFD's strong track record and Government support to the institution, risks related to the
SFD's management capacity, independence, and government support were considered to be modest.
Risk minimization measures identified in the PAD included the recruitment of good staff on
performance based contracts, continuous demonstration of good results on the ground, objective and
transparent resource allocation, and strong donor monitoring. The risk that materialized was the loss
of SFD independence. Independence was, eventually, restored by regaining the support of the top
levels of the government (which was the risk mitigation measure identified in the PAD).

The project did not include any gender specific targets, despite the importance that both the
Government and the Bank attached to reducing gender inequalities in Egypt.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The project was to be implemented in three years with original effectiveness and closing dates
forecasted for December 1999 and December 2002, respectively. Instead, the project was
implemented in six years and a half, with the first disbursement not occurring until November 2002,
about two years after credit effectiveness.

Delays occurred due to a number of reasons. Credit effectiveness was postponed for the first time due
to Parliamentary approval delays which resulted in the credit agreement being ratified in March 2000,
nine months after Board approval (June 1999). Credit effectiveness had to be delayed for a second
time due to delays in strengthening the SFD's fiduciary systems, which was an effectiveness
condition. The credit finally became effective on December 8, 2000, which was 18 months after Board
approval and one year later than was originally envisaged.

By that time, however, the SFD had become caught up in a political power struggle which brought it
close to an operational standstill for nearly two years. The institution's independence was



                                                   6

compromised as disbursements exceeding L.E.50,000 (US$12,500 equivalent) had been made subject
to Prime Ministerial approval, and its effectiveness was further put at risk by the departure of the
larger share of the senior management team. As a result, disbursements did not start, the project's at-
risk status was changed from Modest to High (April 2002) and, as the situation continued, the Bank
communicated to the GoE its intention to suspend the credit. This standstill lasted until August 2002,
when the SFD Board of Directors authorized the newly appointed Managing Director to approve
projects and disbursements of up to L.E.5 million (US$1.25 million equivalent), upon which the Bank
agreed to start disbursements. [The exchange rate used to calculate the US dollar equivalent is based
on the average annual financial valuation rate during the period that the financial controls impeded
disbursements (L.E. 1 = US$ 0.25)].

The first disbursement was made in November 2002 and field activities started in April 2003. Thereon
the pace of implementation and disbursements was satisfactory. The at-risk status of the project was
changed from High to Substantial in December 2002, and improved to its original Modest level in
June 2003.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

An extensive set of indicators concerning employment creation and the provision of numerous
categories of physical and social infrastructure was included in the PAD, and tracked during project
implementation. The output oriented nature of the indicators corresponds with the Project
Development Objectives (PDO). Due to the demand-driven nature of the project and changing
circumstances, the targets were revised twice during project implementation (see section 6.7).

Although two rounds of impact evaluations were scheduled to take place during the life of the project,
the results of the first impact evaluation became available only after project completion, in August
2006. This independent impact evaluation provides a number of useful insights which are being used
to enhance the quality of entry of the fourth phase of Bank support to the SFD, envisaged in FY07.
The evaluation was carried out with the assistance of the World Bank Institute, financially supported
by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). ('Social, Economic and Environmental
Impact Evaluation of Projects of the Egyptian Social Fund for Development', see also Annex 8 and
Supporting Documents).

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Credit effectiveness was postponed, among others, due to delays in the strengthening of the SFD's
financial management and procurement systems. After the conditions had been met and the credit
became effective, financial management problems persisted throughout 2002. For example, the 2000
and 2001 audit reports questioned the eligibility of some expenditures incurred in 1999 and the
objectivity of audits. Financial Management Reports were not prepared until December 31, 2002. On
the procurement side there were delays in the preparation of tender documents for the PWP. The
SFD's procurement capacity was strengthened with the creation of a Procurement Department in 2002
and the recruitment of a senior procurement officer.

During project preparation and implementation, the Bank followed up closely on fiduciary issues. It
pressed the SFD to implement the Financial Management Plan which was a condition of
disbursement. A detailed action plan, including the ex-ante review by the Bank of the first nine bid
evaluations, was agreed upon to remedy the internal control deficiencies that were highlighted in the
SFD's 2001 audit report. However, an independent procurement review in 2004 noted deficiencies in



                                                   7

procurement filing and missing procurement documentation in the Bank's records. Procurement
review functions were considered inadequate as Bank staff gave non-objections to bidding documents
which provided for a 'merit point system' in the evaluation of bids which was a practice that the Bank
had not favored for more than a decade.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The SFD has been keen on bringing donors together to discuss institutional, technical and
implementation matters. Donors responded favorably to this by carrying out two multi-donor reviews
(MDR) in 2000 and 2004. The European Union played a key role by financing and coordinating this
exercise on behalf of the donors. The process has been instrumental in addressing issues in a
coordinated fashion, and both reviews concluded that the SFD has played and should continue to play
a significant role in poverty reduction and employment generation (as well as small enterprise
development) in Egypt. The MDR process has also helped the Bank make a stronger case to pilot
more decentralized implementation arrangements during the last year of project implementation.

Transition arrangements to the IBRD financed Community and Local Development Project (CLD) are
ongoing and the SFD will be piloting some innovative sub-projects to assess the extent to which
implementation can de devolved to lower tiers of local governments, communities and other
stakeholders.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The PDO remains relevant to the GoE's priorities, as the Government's Fifth Five Year Plan for Socio-
Economic Development (2002-2007) identifies the increase of job opportunities and reduction of
unemployment, and the improvement of the quality of life and living standards of citizens, as two of
its main priorities. The objective also corresponds with the current CAS, which identifies the
provision of public services and the promotion of equity, together with private sector growth to
promote employment creation, as the pillars on which the strategy is built.

The positive experiences that the SFD has gained in decentralized and participatory approaches allow
it to strengthen these features in the design and implementation of the CLD project currently under
preparation. Similarly, the poverty map and the impact evaluation that were, respectively, designed
and carried out during project implementation will help the SFD to further improve the effectiveness
of its future activities.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs
in Annex 4)

The achievement of the projects objectives and output is rated as satisfactory since the project met its
objectives to help create jobs and provide community infrastructure and services through labor
intensive works, albeit with substantial delays.




                                                   8

Job Creation. The targets set for this objective were not only met but substantially surpassed. A total
of 58,715 temporary jobs were created (totaling 1.4 million man/months), almost three times as many
as foreseen in the PAD. Over ninety percent of the temporary job opportunities were created by the
PWP. The 2004 Multi-Donor Review Report of the SFD confirmed that most of the temporary jobs
were held by poor or very poor people. The creation of 2,639 permanent jobs exceeds the PAD targets
by 6%. [Due to the difference in the average duration of projects between the components, a
temporary job in PWP is considered to provide 24 months of work, while a temporary job in CDP is a
job for 18 months].

Provision of Community Infrastructure and Services through Labor Intensive Works. The project
delivered substantial outputs by financing 86 projects and related services to the benefit of over 5
million people throughout the country, according to SFD estimates. (See also Annex 1, Key
Performance Indicators.) Labor intensity is estimated at 26 percent which comes close to the 30
percent target. [This estimate concerns public works. Labor intensity ratios for the CDP component
are not available].

The independent impact evaluation, covering PWP and CDP interventions in the period from 2000 to
2004, concludes that beneficiary communities perceived high beneficial impacts of SFD interventions,
mainly in terms of improved health status and living standards, and that a large share of sub-projects
(99.4 percent) addressed community priorities. The outcomes of the impact evaluation relating to
targeting and community participation imply that there is room for improvement in both areas. The
forthcoming CLD project intends to improve targeting outcomes through the use of the newly
developed poverty targeting toolkit, and to increase community participation through the local area
development approach. (See Annex 8 for a description of the main findings of the impact evaluation).

Public Works Program. PWP outputs are rated satisfactory, since this component reached its
infrastructure targets and came close to reaching its labor intensity targets. The program financed
US$50.6 million worth of PWP projects (24 percent over the originally planned amount of US$40.9),
providing 715 villages in 22 Governorates with basic public infrastructure services that empowered
communities and improved their living conditions. PWP achievements include the rehabilitation
and/or construction of: 1,268 kilometers of potable water networks, 85 kilometers of canal covering,
42 wells, and 83 public building refurbishments. In all these categories, final output exceeded both the
PAD's original output indicators and the revised MTR targets.

Areas for improvement of the PWP could have been better geographic targeting by using village level
poverty information, and a shift towards more labor intensive works (e.g. sewage cleaning as opposed
to road rehabilitation) which appeal to the poor (e.g. wells as opposed to in-house water connections).

Community Development Program. The CDP component is rated as moderately satisfactory, since the
revised output targets were achieved but community participation in some cases was limited. The
program financed US$11.3 million worth of CDP projects, which amounts to two thirds of the
originally planned amount of US$17.2 million. The CDP contracted 86 projects in 453 villages. The
CDP component met or surpassed all of its revised targets.

Some of the main achievements in health include the rehabilitation of 48 health facilities (as was
envisioned during the MTR), and the accreditation of 30 NGOs as family health services providers
which enabled 150,000 persons to get better quality primary health care services. SFD interventions in
health have benefited from the implementation of the Population Project (P005163, completed in
March 2005). This project improved the capacity of both the Ministry of Health and Population and
the Health and Population Unit within the SFD, greatly increased their cooperation, clarified their



                                                    9

roles, and expanded the role of the SFD with a specific mandate to improve health and population
outcomes. The experiences and lessons learned with community health activities will have a
substantial impact on design improvements being pursued under the CLD project.

Achievements in education include the establishment 3,846 literacy classes (1,790 more than
envisaged during the MTR), whereby over 80 percent of the students who were enrolled in literacy
programs passed a literacy test administered by the General Authority for Adult Learning and
Education (GALAE). In accordance with MTR targets, 286 youth received some form of vocational
training. In addition, 38,400 people benefited from potable water household connections, latrines and
village level solid waste management activities, exceeding this MTR output indicator by 2,400.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Based on an extrapolation of rates of return from a sample of projects that was financed during SFD's
first phase, the economic rate of return (ERR) in the PAD was estimated to be 21 percent excluding
additional non-quantifiable social and environmental benefits. Owing to the unavailability of
information on the methods used to calculate the PAD's economic rate of return, the ICR team was not
able to replicate the exercise for this ICR. Despite this shortcoming, a number of useful observations
can be made related to cost-effectiveness (see also Annex 5):

     1. The 2004 MDRM II describes the efficiency of PWP operations as quite good, especially
         given the country context and in comparison to other infrastructure service providers
         operating in the country. Efficiency of the SFD's community development program is deemed
         satisfactory, taking into account its broad mission, extremely wide range of operational
         modalities and partners, and limited workforce at the regional level.
     2. A sample of unit costs of public works activities shows that unit costs during the SFD's third
         phase (1999-mid 2006) were either lower compared to the unit cost data that were available at
         the time of writing of the PAD, or increased at a slower pace than inflation. Unit costs of the
         potable water network decreased significantly, due to increased competition and economies of
         scale of the competitors.
     3. The average expenditures per job created during the SFD's third phase were L.E.211 (US$37)
         per man/month for PWP, and L.E.795 (US$138) for CPD. Expenditures per PWP job created
         have steadily decreased since phase I. This decrease is even more pronounced when expressed
         in US dollars, and when costs are corrected for inflation. [No historical comparisons for the
         CDP are made, as CDP data pre-dating the third phase include micro-credit activities and are
         therefore not considered to be comparable].
     4. Average expenditures per beneficiary during the third phase were L.E.49 (US$8.6) for PWP
         and L.E.282 (US$49.1) for the CDP component. Based on the PWP data, expenditures per
         beneficiary decreased sharply in the second phase (1997-2000) compared to the first phase
         (1993-1997), and rose again during the third phase, although when taking into account
         inflation the expenditures have remained fairly stable over the passed two phases.

Labor intensity of the public works component, which absorbed more than 80 percent of total project
funding, reached an average of 26 percent, with rates of the major PWP sub-sectors ranging from 25.4
percent for potable water activities to 26.5 percent for sanitation projects. This is lower than the 30
percent PAD target, and below international norms where the wage bill ranges from 30 to 60 percent
of program expenditures. [The higher end of the labor intensity ratio are more typically found in low
income countries]. Based on the available information on PWP activities, the assumption can be made



                                                   10

that the steady decrease of expenditures per job created and the (more limited) experienced decrease
in unit costs is due to a fall in non-labor costs, as there have been no major changes in labor intensity
and wages of particularly unskilled labor have seen substantial increases at least in the years after
2001. The increase in expenditures per beneficiary of public works activities (although very small
after an inflation correction) leads to the assumption that there has been a reduction in the number of
persons that benefit from public works sub-projects that were implemented under SFD III compared to
public works projects in earlier phases.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project's overall outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project objective was and remains relevant,
and the project achieved its objective of helping to create jobs and provide community infrastructure
through labor intensive works, albeit with substantial delays.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The independent impact evaluation, summarized in Annex 8 and included in the Supplemental
Documents to this ICR, provides information on the community impacts of CDP and PWP
interventions, including on gender impacts and community participation.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

At the level of the SFD
Institutional development impact at the SFD level is modest. Since this project was designed as a
bridge credit, the project did not support any new policy or institutional reforms. However, the
project did support the SFD's ongoing reforms initiated during the second phase of Bank
support. These were: (i) ensuring sustainability of physical assets through, inter alia, improved
maintenance arrangements; and (ii) improved targeting of programs on the poorest of the poor. In
addition, the Bank was to help the SFD in defining its longer term role as it was in a transition
process, moving from funding emergency programs towards becoming a more permanent
development institution.

The most significant achievement on the institutional side is the SFD's transformation in 2002 into a
permanent institution with a mandate of employment generation and poverty alleviation activities.
This was followed by a restructuring of SFD, whereby the Human and Community Development
Group (HCDG) was created to manage community development programs; both IDA financed
components were brought under the same management structure, to promote synergies between
interventions. Multi-donor reviews led by the European Union have become a common practice every
four years, which has helped bring donors together to discuss issues of common interest in a more
coordinated fashion. In terms of decentralization, the SFD is one of the few Government agencies
which strengthened the capacity of its 26 regional offices. The SFD's credibility thus increased, which
enabled it to attract donor funds as donors were eager to have their funds channeled quickly to
programs in poor and remote areas.




                                                     11

Even though the project played a catalytic role in moving forward most of the reforms initiated under
the Second Social Fund Project, the delays in carrying out these reforms were significant.           A
"targeting toolkit", providing village level poverty data, was completed in April 2006. An operations
and maintenance pilot is underway in two Governorates. Although two rounds of impact evaluations
were scheduled to take place during the life of the project, only one impact evaluation took place, of
which the final results became available in August 2006. These accomplishments are expected to
enhance the quality at entry of the fourth phase of Bank support to the SFD, envisaged in FY07.

At the decentralized levels
The institutional development impact at the Governorate, District and community level is substantial.
For the 26 Governorates, the project supported the creation of Project Implementation Units (PIUs),
which have facilitated knowledge-transfers and capacity building at the governorate and lower levels
throughout the implementation period of the project. Capacity building programs for NGOs were quite
successful as they not only enhanced the capacity of NGOs to implement some sub-projects, but they
were also given responsibilities to carry out some participatory rural appraisals. An integrated solid
waste management study was completed in early 2005 in two villages; the proposed approach is likely
to be replicated in other rural areas.

At the level of the sub-contractors (funded by the DANIDA Technical Assistance Program for the
SFD-TASFD)
Even though this was not funded by the project, the institutional development impact at the level of
sub-contractors is substantial. This allowed the PWP to further the Government's private sector
development agenda and poverty reduction objectives by training and orienting youth to start small
contracting businesses. This pilot resulted in the creation of 152 small-scale, labor-based contractors
in 19 governorates.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Not Applicable.


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The independent impact evaluation, summarized in Annex 8 and included in the Supplemental
Documents to this ICR, is partly based on focus group discussions and individual interviews with key
stakeholders in 18 communities covering 38 SFD interventions.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is considered to be moderate, and mainly pertains to the
sustainability of the physical infrastructure provided under the PWP. Risks to institutional
sustainability, and to physical and social infrastructure provided through the CDP, are considered to
be Negligible to Low.

Public Works Program
The SFD began to address maintenance problems in 1999, by requesting that 'sponsoring agencies'
(Governorates) deposit up-front 10 percent of total project costs for maintenance purposes in a
separate bank account, matched by an additional 10 percent from the SFD. This was based on best



                                                   12

practice experiences from other Social Investment Funds in other parts of the world. These funds were
rarely accessed due to the inability of Governorates to prepare adequate maintenance plans. The SFD
went on in mid-2004 to commission a study to define the roles and responsibilities of all
stakeholders. Recommendations from this study are currently being piloted in the Sharqiya and
Fayoum Governorates where tripartite agreements have been signed between SFD's regional offices,
the Governorates and NGOs to begin hiring local contractors to carry out periodic maintenance of
roads, sanitation and potable water projects and canals. In addition, SFD is funding training programs
for staff in these two Governorates. Lessons learned from this pilot will be taken into account as SFD
has plans to scale up this maintenance scheme in the country's 26 Governorates in 2006 using
counterpart funds.

Community Development
The 2004 impact evaluation of the MDRM and the findings of the 2006 independent impact
evaluation concluded that sub-projects addressed priority needs and communities were on the whole
satisfied with outcomes. The MDRM carried out an ex-post review of CDP sub-projects, confirming
that user fees are being collected for garbage collection, nursery and literacy classes, and health clinics
to cover operations and maintenance costs. Thirty NGOs have been trained and then contracted to
provide primary health care services.

Institutional sustainability
The SFD was transformed into a permanent Government agency with a mandate for supporting
employment creation and poverty reduction programs. The 2004 Poverty Reduction Strategy and the
2005 Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) describe the SFD as one of the Government's
three main pillars for protecting the poor and vulnerable through social safety net programs. [Arab
Republic of Egypt, A Poverty Reduction Strategy, September 10, 2004.               Ministry of Planning
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Social and Economic Development Group,
Middle East and North Africa Region]. The SFD has secured donor financing for the next five years in
the areas of small enterprise development, micro-credit, local area development, community health,
and capacity building activities.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance during project preparation and appraisal was moderately satisfactory. The project
was consistent with the strategies of both the GoE and the World Bank. The appropriate skills mix of
the Bank's task team and the continuity and experience of the task team leader who had worked on
Egypt for quite some time facilitated the fast track processing of this operation to meet the last IDA
allocation deadline in order to achieve the Bank's strategic goal of remaining engaged in poverty
alleviation programs in Egypt. During appraisal, the Bank team provided needed technical input on
institutional issues which needed to be remedied to increase SFD's effectiveness and impact. Bank
support for this third phase initiated the African Development Bank's interest in funding community
development projects.

Bank performance could have been improved by placing greater emphasis on outcomes, impact, and
sustainability issues. Taking into account the SFD's track record and ongoing efforts to remedy



                                                   13

shortcomings at the time of project preparation, the Bank assumed that these issues would be fully
addressed during the first year of project implementation. With hindsight, quality at entry would have
been improved if, for instance, impact evaluation and targeting systems would have been up and
running prior to project appraisal. It can, however, be acknowledged that it is unlikely that these
improvements would have prevented the subsequent implementation delays from taking place, as
these were of a political rather than a technical nature.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance during supervision is moderately unsatisfactory. Supervision can be divided into
two phases, with the quality during the second phase (from December 2002) higher than during the
initial stages of project supervision.

During the first phase (January 2000-November 2002) effectiveness and start-up delays (mainly
related to in-country political bottlenecks) took the center stage, resulting in actual disbursements only
starting in November 2002, nearly two years after credit effectiveness. Bank staff juggled between
conflicting issues, including the need to maintain the overall country relationship and show firmness to
get the project started and to ensure that fiduciary problems were resolved. In April 2002, almost one
and a half year after the credit had become effective but no disbursements had been made, the Bank
officially informed the Borrower that it was considering suspending disbursements. This was likely the
trigger which made the Borrower take quick and concrete steps to remedy the bottlenecks within the
following two months. The Bank followed up on fiduciary issues and pressed the SFD to implement
the Financial Management Plan which was a condition of disbursement. SFD's 2001 audit report
highlighted a number of internal control deficiencies and a detailed action plan was agreed upon to
remedy these deficiencies, which included the ex-ante review by the Bank of the first 9 bid
evaluations. However, a 2004 independent procurement review noted deficiencies in procurement
filing and missing procurement documentation in the Bank's records. Procurement review functions
were considered inadequate as Bank staff gave non-objections to bidding documents which provided
for a "merit point system" in the evaluation of bids which was a practice that the Bank had not favored
for more than a decade.

Implementation took place from December 2002 through February 2006. The extension of the closing
date by a cumulative period of more than three years was therefore essential in allowing the project to
reach its original objectives. Whereas the PAD assumed that the project could be qualified as a 'quick
repeater' project, the operational standstill and the high turnover in senior management staff had
essentially turned it into a 'starter' project by the start of this phase. For this reason the SFD required,
and was provided with, intensive supervision as the institution slowly got back to its feet. Supervision
missions took place on average twice a year and identified and addressed implementation problems.
Country Directors based in the field were in touch with SFD's management on a regular basis; sector
managers also communicated regularly with counterparts.              MNSHD's portfolio monitoring team
reviewed the Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) to ensure
quality write-ups and consistency with proposed ratings. In June 2003, the task management was
transferred to a staff member based in the Bank'sCairo office, which facilitated project implementation
and was greatly appreciated by the Borrower. Due to the initial delays in effectiveness and
disbursement, most of the task team's attention went to facilitating quick implementation and
disbursements, which left less time for improving some of the SFD's institutional capacities.




                                                      14

Although on the whole PSR/ISR ratings were realistic, initial assumptions that start-up problems
would be solved relatively quickly appear, with hindsight, to have been overly optimistic and led to
Implementation Progress (IP) and Development Objective (DO) ratings being downgraded to
Unsatisfactory only in the end of 2001.

Supervision reporting could have benefited from consistent tracking of performance indicators and
their use in justifying development objective ratings. Monitoring and evaluation have appropriately
been rated Unsatisfactory almost consistently since September 2002 (the exception being the May
2004 ISR, when SFD actions validated the upgrading of the rating to Satisfactory). The skills mix
during supervision missions could have been enhanced with staff with experience in social investment
funds.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory since, despite shortcomings during the
supervision phase, Bank performance helped insure a satisfactory overall outcome.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

During preparation, the Government was keen on ensuring that the SFD would benefit from the last
IDA allocation. The Ministry of International Cooperation, the Bank's interlocutor for Egypt, was
engaged in the preparation process, delegating detailed decisions to the SFD.               However, the
Government did not want to incur any additional debt for SFD programs and therefore went on to on-
lend this US$50 million IDA credit to the SFD, which as it now stands is responsible for repaying this
loan back to the Bank.

There was a nine month delay in the parliamentary ratification process, counterpart funding allocations
were delayed, and overly stringent controls were imposed on the SFD. In mid 2002, the financial
controls were lifted after the appointment of a new Managing Director of the SFD. Counterpart funds
were made available in the end of 2002. From this moment on until project completion, Government
performance has been satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing
                   Performance
Agency
                   The SFD demonstrated continued ownership throughout project preparation, among
                   others by carrying out social and beneficiary assessments to help inform changes to
                   increase its effectiveness.
The Social Fund    The expertise of SFD management and staff, combined with the effective use of
for Development technical assistance and a series of assessments (the most important ones being the
                   2000 and 2004 Multi-Donor Reviews) contributed to successful project
                   implementation. SFD's solid management structures at the central and regional
                   levels have played a significant role in achieving tangible results on the ground.



                                                    15

                    The SFD could have been more proactive in resolving the fiduciary problems which
                    were among the reasons for the start-up delays. Due to delays in the impact
                    evaluation, the findings could not be used to enhance or make adjustments to
                    existing programs. The SFD could also have been more proactive in resolving
                    monitoring and evaluation issues. In addition, given the number of actors involved
                    in the local development process, the SFD could have placed more emphasis on
                    communication and coordination with stakeholders at all levels.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Borrower's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, since it achieved the objectives it
set forth for employment creation and provision of community infrastructure, albeit with significant
delays. The delays in carrying out impact evaluations do not allow the SFD to make a strong case on
its impact on poverty in Egypt.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Specific lessons that feed into the envision design of the forthcoming SFD project

A number of basic elements incorporated in the design of the CLD project that is currently under
preparation emerged from lessons learned during the implementation of the SFD III project (combined
with experiences with several other projects implemented in various sectors in Egypt in the last few
years). These elements include:

Area-based development: Addressing poverty and vulnerability in geographical areas with high
concentrations of poor and vulnerable persons by a joint effort of various actors across sectors will
allow for a higher overall impact of mutually enforcing interventions, greater community
participation, and better targeting.

Community participation and decentralization: A further strengthening of community participation,
facilitated by the shifting of more responsibilities from the center to SFD branch offices, governorates,
and other decentralized structures such as district and village councils, will improve sub-project
effectiveness and sustainability, and support the area based development approach.

Targeting: Poverty targeting mechanisms that are kept simple, verifiable, and based on objective
criteria, will foster transparency and ensure that project resources reach the poorest areas. The poverty
targeting toolkit that the SFD developed with KfW-funding during SFD III will be used systematically
to select all local area development intervention areas under the proposed new project.

Monitoring and evaluation: A user friendly M&E system will facilitate sub-project evaluations,
provide feedback to improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning
tool. The SFD's MIS system has been recently upgraded (with EU support) and will enable users to
receive real time monitoring of the entire sub-project cycle.

Fiduciary Management: The SFD and the Bank will agree up-front on procurement arrangements,
including on a new procurement manual, standardized bidding documents, and draft contracts, to
facilitate the procurement process and avoid implementation delays.



                                                     16

On-lending of credit: As it now stands, the SFD is responsible for repaying the SFD III IDA credit
back to the Bank. The GoE introduced this approach to encourage fiscally prudent behavior and cost-
sharing of implementing agencies, and the Bank agreed to this arrangement on an exceptional basis.
However as the SFD, and in particular the sub-projects financed by the IDA credit, do not generate
revenue streams to repay the credit, this approach should not be repeated.

Generic lessons

There is a need to set out a hierarchy between project objectives. In the case of the SFD III project,
the objective of temporary employment through labor intensive public works and that of expanded
access to infrastructure and services had an inherent internal tension. For example, there are many
cases in which communities, through a participatory approach select a water supply scheme or the
rehabilitation of a health facility as top priority sub-projects which are highly relevant in terms of
poverty reduction, but are relatively low in terms of labor intensity. Agreement should be reached as
to which of the two is the most important and most relevant so that the rules of the game are clear for
all parties from the outset.

Quality at entry can be compromised when projects are prepared on a fast track basis. A fast track
approach can be successfully used for projects that have had a strong implementation performance
with no significant institutional shortcomings. The approach is less suitable for projects which require
more time to ensure readiness for implementation than a fast track approach would allow.

Institutional issues such as monitoring and evaluation and targeting need to be dealt with up front
during project preparation. Results based monitoring and evaluation and targeting systems need to be
designed and agreed upon during project preparation. If this opportunity is missed, it is much more
difficult to ensure that effective M&E or targeting will take place. After credit effectiveness,
implementation issues take center stage, leaving little time to make substantive modifications which
would likely delay implementation. Baseline studies should also be carried out during project
preparation, in order to have a stronger basis to assess the impact of interventions. For instance, in the
forthcoming CLD project, baseline information for all local area development projects will be
collected prior to their start-up to ensure that before and after information can be used to assess the
impact of interventions in a more systematic fashion.

Field presence can enhance supervision effectiveness. Particularly in circumstances where intensive
supervision is required, the more regular and direct interactions with local counterparts which are
facilitated by field presence of relevant Bank staff can have a high positive impact on the manner and
pace at which a project moves forward.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No additional comments.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not Applicable.




                                                   17

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The projects objective was to help create jobs and provide community infrastructure and services
through labor intensive works. The project was seen as an extension of the second phase of the SFD
community infrastructure program, which was being implemented successfully and during which a
number of subprojects had been identified for which additional funding was needed. Key performance
indicators were the creation of permanent (2,500) and temporary (20,000) jobs, labor intensity (an
overall ratio of 30%), and extensive quantitative output indicators ranging from numbers of illiteracy
program graduates to kilometers of roads paved (see Annex 4).

These objectives responded to the country context and development priorities. At the time of project
preparation, the Government's priority was to spread the benefits of economic growth by accelerating
private sector led growth, employment creation and poverty reduction. These objectives were well
defined and realistic. They aimed at reducing poverty and creating temporary and permanent
employment opportunities, developing human capacity, and improving rural infrastructure. The
project was also consistent with the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy dated May 25, 1997,
which mirrored those of the Government: supporting private sector led growth and human resources
development to reduce unemployment and raise living standards.

The project objectives responded to pressing constraints which were hindering Egypt 's social and
economic development, which were a lack of jobs, and poverty. It was further justified by a substantial
backlog of beneficiary requests to the SFD for investments in small scale infrastructure. The project
objective was quite broad, giving the Government and the SFD flexibility to finance innovative
activities and/or accommodate beneficiary requests. The project components were consistent with the
project objectives, as they supported the creation of temporary and permanent employment, and the
development of community infrastructure as a means of improving the quality of life of poor people.
The objectives were straightforward, especially for an agency such as the SFD, which at the time had
an eight year track record in employment creation and infrastructure rehabilitation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objectives were not revised.




                                                   18

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                          Original
                                                       Target Values   Formally     Actual Value

                  Indicator                Baseline                    Revised       Achieved at
                                            Value          (from
                                                          approval      Target     Completion or

                                                        documents)      Values      Target Years

                                          No. of Permanent Jobs Created Under the Public Works
Indicator 1 :                             and Community Development Programs
Value
(quantitative or qualitative)             Zero        2,500                       2,639

Date achieved                             06/30/1999 02/28/2006                   02/28/2006
Comments                                  Please refer to Table A of Annex 4 for further
(incl. % achievement)                     information on PDO Indicators.
                                          No. of temporary jobs created under the Public Works
Indicator 2 :                             and Community Development Programs
Value
(quantitative or qualitative)             0           20,000                      58,715

Date achieved                             06/30/1999 02/28/2006                   02/28/2006
Comments                                  Please refer to Table A of Annex 4 for further
(incl. % achievement)                     information on PDO Indicators.
Indicator 3 :                             Labor intensity
Value
(quantitative or qualitative)             0           30%                         26%

Date achieved                             06/30/1999 02/28/2006                   02/28/2006
Comments                                  Please refer to Table A of Annex 4 for further
(incl. % achievement)                     information on PDO Indicators.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

    Indicator       Baseline   Original Target Values      Formally     Actual Value Achieved
                      Value       (from approval            Revised        at Completion or
                                    documents)              Target            Target Years
                                                            Values
 Indicator 1:      Not applicable

 Value
 (quantitative or
 qualitative)
 Date achieved

 Comments
 (incl. %
 achievement)




                                               19

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                   20

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


         Components              Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                             Estimate (USD M) Estimate (USD M)      Percentage of Appraisal

PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM                    40.90               50.60                       123.72
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                     17.20               11.30                        65.70

         Total Baseline Cost            58.10               61.90

Physical Contingencies                   2.60

Price Contingencies                      4.20

          Total Project Costs           64.90

Front-end fee PPF                        0.00                0.00                         0.00

Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00                0.00                         0.00

   Total Financing Required             64.90               61.90


(b) Financing

                                                       Appraisal   Actual/Latest
             Source of Funds                Type of                               Percentage of
                                         Cofinancing    Estimate    Estimate
                                                        (USD M)     (USD M)        Appraisal

 Borrower                                                    10.00          4.00         40.00
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION                                                  50.00         53.00        106.00

 NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
(NGO) OF BORROWING COUNTRY                                    5.00          4.90         98.00


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                               21

Annex 4. Outputs by Component


Table A. PDO Indicators

Indicator                              Projected in PAD               Revised during MTR               Actual / Latest Estimate
Job creation1
Permanent jobs                                      2,500                                                          2,639
- PWP                                                  -                                                           1,520
- CDP                                                  -                                                           1,119
Temporary jobs2                                     20,000                                                        58,715
- PWP                                                  -                                                          51,581
- CDP                                                  -                                                           7,134
Provision of Infrastructure and
Services
Projects (No. )
- PWP                                                  -                                                 60 (1390 subprojects)
- CDP                                                  -                             -                              86
Villages reached (No.)
- PWP                                                  -                                                            715
- CDP                                                  -                                                            453
Beneficiaries (No.)
- PWP                                                  -                         4,700,000                      4,870,000
- CDP   3                                        2,018,000  4                    228,000  5                     372,000    5

Labor intensity (%)
                                                      30
- PWP                                                                                                               26
- CDP                                                                                                               N/A
1) Temporary job creation data calculations differ for CDP and PWP, due to the differences in the average duration of sub-projects in each
component. A temporary job creation equals 24 months of work for one individual for PWP, and 18 months of work for one individual for
CDP.
2) During the MTR, employment targets were revised for CDP and PWP (to 2,350 and 32,000 respectively), without distinguishing between
temporary and permanent job creation.
3) See Annex 4 Table C for a breakdown of beneficiaries per CDP sub-component.
4) Number of projected CDP beneficiaries comprises health service and education and training recipients.
5) Number of CDP beneficiaries comprises health services, education and training and environment, water and sanitation recipients.


Table B. Output Indicators Public Works Program

 Indicator                               Projected in PAD               Revised during MTR              Actual / Latest Estimate
 Environmental Infrastructure
 Wastewater network (km)                               8.5                            208                            145
 Waste water treatment plants                           -                              5                               4
 (subprojects)
 Waste water pumping stations                           -                             14                              16
 (subprojects)
 Canal covering (km)                                   27                             80                              85
 Canal protection (km)                                  3                             25                              19
 Canal landscaping (No.)                                -                              -                              88
 House Connection (No.)                                 -                             700                              -
 Septic Tanks (No.)                                     -                             24                              73
 Rural Roads
 Road upgrading & construction                         150                            258                            244
 (km)
 Potable Water
 Network (km)                                          440                           1,035                          1,268
 Elevated and ground tanks (units)                     11                             67                              48
 Artesian wells (No.)                                  18                              7                              42
 Pump Houses (No. )                                    12                              -                               -




                                                                  22

House Connections (No.)                                  -                             5,200                            5,200
Building Refurbishments (No.)                          55                                66                               83
Clinics (No. )                                           7                                -                                5
Youth centers (No.)                                    20                                 -                               35
Schools (No. )                                         18                                 -                                0
Social centers (No.)                                   10                                 -                               31
Child clubs                                              -                                -                                2
Veterinary facilities                                    -                                -                                5
Market areas                                             -                                -                                2
Bus stations                                             -                                -                                3


Table C. Output Indicators Community Development Program

Indicator                                   Projected in PAD             Revised during MTR             Actual / Latest Estimate
Health Services
Renovation of health clinics (No.)                      200                           48                              48
Upgrading of central hospitals (No.)                     6                             -                               -
Human resources development                            2,700                           -                               -
Health awareness campaigns (No.)                         -                           130                             130
Health personnel trained (No.)                           -                           670                             670
Beneficiaries                                      2,000,000                       150,000                        252,000
Education and Training
Single classrooms established (No.)                    1,600                           -                               -
Illiteracy classes established (No.)                     -                           2,055                          3,846
Persons trained to teach literacy                        -                           2,055                          3,846
classes (No.)
Training workshops equipped (No.)                        -                             2                              2
Nursery classes (No.)                                    -                            60                              60
Persons trained to supervise nursery                     -                            60                              60
classes (No.)
Beneficiaries (No.)
Total Education and Training                          18,000                        42,286                        82,057   1

Vocational Training                                      -                           286                             286
Illiteracy and Nursery Classes                           -                          42,000                         81,771
Productive Families Loans        2

Loans recipients (No.)                                 6,400                           -                               -
NGO Capacity Building
Upgrading technical and                                 900                          430                             430
administrative capacity
Number of personnel                                      -                           300                             327
Environment, water, and sanitation
Sanitation and Solid Waste                               5                            40                              63
management (subprojects)
Beneficiaries (No.)                                       -                         36,000                         38,400
1) This number comprises beneficiaries of vocational training and of illiteracy and nursery classes. No data on beneficiaries of other
education and training services available.
2) This program was financed by other donors.




                                                                    23

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

During preparation, the economic justification for carrying out the SFD III project was based on the
project's strong links to the CAS, the favorable macroeconomic and fiscal policy environment, the roles of
the public and private sector in reaching the poor and underserved, and finally on an economic analysis of
the SFD's activities based on the institutions previous achievements. All of these issues are discussed
below.

Links to the CAS

The project addressed three main objectives of the CAS at the time: poverty alleviation, employment
creation, and private sector development. The project has reached over 11 million beneficiaries, according
to SFD estimates, of which a large share is assumed to be poor or near-poor. The independent impact
evaluation concludes that almost all (99.4 percent) of the SFD's public works and community
development interventions addressed community priorities and generated high beneficial impacts. In
addition, the project has created 18,389 permanent and 119,356 temporary jobs (2.8 million man/months),
and supported private sector development by working with small local private contractors.

The policy environment

Egypt 's economic performance during implementation was not as good as in the preceding period. While
at the time of project preparation growth rates had been steadily improving since the adoption of a
structural adjustment program in the early 1990s, GDP growth rates decelerated from 6.3 percent per year
in 1999 to an annual average of 3.3 percent in 2001-2003. Growth rates picked up again in 2004 (4.4
percent of GDP per year), likely due to a combination of policy reforms, such as the flotation of the
Egyptian Pound in 2003, and external developments. Fiscal deficits began to deteriorate in FY1998, after
a long period of improvements.

Despite the deteriorating economic situation, the GOE showed its commitment to poverty reduction and
social protection by increasing its share of expenditures on social protection. From FY02 to FY05, public
expenditures on social protection increased from 14.4 percent to 19.7 percent of total expenditures. In real
terms, Government's social protection outlays almost doubled in this period, to L.E.31563 million
(US$5176 million equivalent). [Differing definitions of expenditure categories prior to FY02 make earlier
data not comparable with data from FY02. Expenditures on social protection in FY06 are projected to be
25.7 percent of public expenditures, but unlike earlier data this figure includes energy subsidies.]. In the
same period, Government's combined expenditures on education, health, social protection and food
subsidies increased from 40.1 to 45.5 percent of total government expenditures.

During the project implementation period, SFD disbursements of Government and donor funds equaled on
average 0.2 percent of GDP, including 0.03-0.07 percent of GDP for public works and community
development projects. Disbursements for public works projects decreased significantly in 2001 and 2002
due to the obligation to obtain Prime Ministerial approval for all projects above a L.E.50,000 ceiling. CDP
disbursement levels were less affected by this obligation as the costs of many community development
projects tended to be below this threshold.




                                                   24

Figure A5.1 SFD Disbursements on PWP and CDP
(L.E. million., 1999-2005)




Public / Private sector role

Public intervention by carrying out the project's selected activities was warranted as the project supported
a wide range of activities that were selected and undertaken on the basis of their positive, public good
externalities, and that were aimed to reach poorer communities.

The SFD took concrete steps toward decentralization by strengthening its 26 regional offices and
establishing a Project Implementation Unit in each Governorate. The SFD is thus quite decentralized with
respect to work and information gathering, although decision making is generally performed at the
centralized level. The SFD contributed to private sector development by working with small, local
contractors. In collaboration with DANIDA, the SFD trained and oriented youth to set up small
contracting businesses. Over 150 small-scale, labor-based contractors were established, creating 400 to
600 permanent jobs. The larger share of sub-projects of the community development component was
implemented by NGOs. The SFD is piloting sub-projects to also increase NGO participation in project
identification and design.

Economic analysis

Costs per job created
Expenditures for temporary job creation during the third SFD phase were on average L.E.211 (US$37) per
man/month for the PWP, and L.E.795 (US$138) per man/month for the CDP. Expenditures per PWP job
created have steadily decreased since Phase 1. The fall in expenditures per job created is even more
pronounced when they are expressed in US dollars, due to the sharp devaluation of the Egyptian Pound
against the dollar that occurred after the first two projects were implemented, and when expenditures are
corrected for inflation. (Figure A5.1) (Historical data for CDP are not comparable as the first two phases
include micro-finance activities).




                                                    25

Table A5.1: Expenditures per job created by SFD public works activities Phase I-III

                                         Public Works

                                         Phase 1            Phase II             Phase III
    L.E.                                 225                217                  211
   (L.E. inflation corrected)            (342)              (281)                (225)
    US$                                  66                 63                   37
   (US$ inflation corrected)             (101)              (81)                 (39)

Notes: 1) Jobs are expressed in man/months. Permanent job creation is not included due to its limited relevance compared to temporary job
creation.
2) Expenditures include SFD transfers and beneficiary contributions;
3) Inflation correction: 2004 prices, adjusted by GDP deflator from mid-phase to 2004, I ('96), II ('99), III ('04);
4) Exchange rates are average for Phase-periods: I (0.295), II (0.290), III (0.174).
Source: World Bank estimates based on SFD data.


Labor intensity
During Phase III, the labor intensity of the public works component, which absorbed more than 80% of
SFD III funding, reached an average of 26 percent. This is both below the PAD's 30 percent target - which
was achieved during the SFD's Phases I and II - and below international norms which tend to be over 50
percent. Labor intensity rates of the major PWP sub-sectors range from 25.4 percent for potable water
activities to 26.5 percent for sanitation projects (table A5.2). These small variations in labor intensity
between sub-sectors indicate that labor intensity is unlikely to increase by a mere reallocation of funds
between existing sub-sectors. The small differences in labor intensity between PWP sub-sectors are a
recent development. In Phases I and II the average labor intensity showed more variation, with rates being
less than 20 percent for water supply and sewage networks and up to 50 percent for canal covering
activities.

Table A5.2: Labor content PWP and PWP sectors (% total costs) during SFD Phase III

  (Sub-) Sector                                      Labor intensity

PWP                                                   26
- Sanitation                                          26,5
- Canal covering                                     26,2
- Buildings                                           26,0
- Road Paving                                         25,9
- Potable water                                       25,4
Source: SFD estimates


The SFD confirms that those employed by the PWP and the CDP receive market wages. A sample of
wage data from five Governorates of the main PWP sub-sectors indicates that from 2002 to 2005, average
wages increased by almost 50 percent for unskilled labor, and by 18 percent for skilled labor (table A5.3).

Table A5.3: Daily wages (L.E.) during project implementation

 Sector              Unskilled Labor                                                Skilled Labor

                     2002       2003         2004      2005         Increase (%) 2002           2003           2004   2005      Increase (%)
Road Paving          13.5       16.3         17.8      19           41              21.3        23             24.5   25.8      21
Potable Water        10         15           17.3      18.3         83              21.8        23.8           27.2   28.2      29
Sanitation           17.3       20           22        22.3         29              27          27.3           29.7   29.7      10
Canal Covering 11.3             13.3         14.8      16           42              18          20.6           21.3   23.3      13
Source: SFD estimates.




                                                                     26

Unit costs
Unit costs of the main PWP infrastructure activities are depicted in table A5.4. Compared to the unit costs
as estimated in the PAD, a substantial decrease occurred during the third SFD phase of the unit costs of
constructing water networks and artezian wells, and paving roads (columns 3 and 4). According to SFD
staff, prices of the PVC pipes used for the construction of potable water networks have gone down
significantly due to increased competition and economies of scale of producers. The 30 percent decrease
in the cost of artisan wells might be due to a reduction of the price of construction materials, a more
efficient production process, an unidentified adjustment in the design or volume of the wells, or a
combination of these factors. If the unit costs of the the third SFD phase are compared to the PAD
estimates expressed in 2004 prices, unit costs also decreased for the construction of elevated water tanks
(column 5). Taking into account the different measuring units in both periods, unit costs for canal
covering seem to have remained fairly stable after the inflation correction.

Table A5.4: Unit costs (L.E.)

                     (1)                          (2)           (3)                     (4)               (5)

Sector               Sub-sector                   Unit          SFD Phase III           PAD estimates     PAD estimates
                                                                                                          (inflation corrected)*
Roads                                             Km.           163,414                 200,000           268,000
                     Network (PVC pipe)

Water                - 4"                         m.            39                      43                58
                     - 6"                         m.            49                      60                80
                     - 8"                         m.            64                      85                114
                     Elevated water tank
                     - 100 m3                     No.           220,000                 200,000           268,000
                     - 300 m3                     No.           397,000                 -
                     Artezian well
                     - 8"                         No.           18,000                  26,000            34,840
                     - 10"                        No.           25,000                  -
                     Canal covering

Environment          - 0.8m                       m.            348                     275 (55-80 cm)    369 (55-80 cm)
                     - 1.0m                       m.            780                     450 (85-100 cm)   603 (85-100 cm)
                     - 1.2m                       m.            1,210                   615 (105-120 cm)  824 (105-120cm)
                     Gravity lines

Waste water          - 7"                         m.            198                     -
                     - 8"                         m.            214                     -
                     - 12"                        m.            240                     -
* Data on SFD I and SFD II are assumed to be 1997 prices, corrected by the GDP deflator.
Source: SFD and World Bank estimates


There are no recent data available of unit costs of similar infrastructure projects that are carried out by
other public or private entities. The SFD assumes that, where SFD unit costs are higher than those of other
entities in Egypt, this can be largely attributed to the SFD's more stringent quality control measures, and it
adherence to tight pre-planned implementation and disbursement schedules.

Expenditure per beneficiary
The average expenditure per beneficiary during the third SFD phase project was L.E.49 (US$8.6) for
public works activities and L.E.282 (US$49.1) for the community development component. Expenditures
per beneficiary of public works interventions decreased sharply between Phase I and Phase II, and rose
again during SFD III, although when taking into account inflation the expenditures per beneficiary have
remained fairly stable over the last two phases. (table A5.5).




                                                                  27

Table A5.5. Expenditures per beneficiary by SFD public works activities Phase I-III

                            Public Works
                            Phase 1           Phase II        Phase III
    L.E.                    61.3              38.4            49.4
   (Inflation               (93)              (50)            (53)
   corrected)
    US$                     18.1              11.1            8.6
   (Inflation               (28)              (14)            (9)
   corrected)

Notes: 1) Expenditures include SFD transfers and beneficiary contributions;
3) Inflation correction: 2004 prices, adjusted by GDP deflator from mid-phase to 2004, I ('96), II ('99), III ('04);
4) Exchange rates are average for Phase-periods: I (0.295), II (0.290), III (0.174).
Source: World Bank estimates based on SFD data.




                                                                     28

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
         Names                    Title                  Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
                        Lead Financial
Rafika Chaouali
                        Management Spec
David J. Steel          Lead Operations Officer  MNSHD
Eileen Brainne Sullivan Operations Analyst       MNSHD
Supervision/ICR
Alaa Mahmoud Hamed
                        Sr Health Spec.          MNSHD
Abdel-Hamid
Dina Mohamed Samir El Sr Communications
                                                 MNAEX
Naggar                  Officer
Yasser Aabdel-Aleem
                        Sr Operations Off.       MNSHD
Awny El-Gammal
Akram Abd El-Aziz       Sr Financial
                                                 MNAFM
Hussein El-Shorbagi     Management Specia
Margo A. Hoftijzer      Young Professional       YPP
Taissir Mohammed
                        Consultant               MNC03
Hanafy Hosam El-din
Nehad Morsi Kamel       Consultant               MNSIF
Eileen Murray           Sr Operations Off.       MNSHD
Mario Antonio Zelaya    Consultant               MNSHD

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
No. Date ISR Archived            DO               IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/21/1999              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              0.00
2   12/20/1999              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              0.00
3   06/06/2000              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              0.00
4   06/30/2000              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              0.00
5   11/30/2000              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              0.00
6   12/13/2000              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              0.00
7   06/04/2001              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              0.00
8   12/04/2001              Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                            0.00
9   04/22/2002              Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                            0.00
10 04/25/2002               Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                            0.00
11 09/18/2002               Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                            0.00




                                              29

13 03/14/2003              Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                               2.50
14 06/29/2003              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                 4.90
15 12/17/2003              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               12.48
16 05/01/2004              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               29.99
17 11/01/2004              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               49.15
18 04/28/2005              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               51.22
19 11/16/2005              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                               53.63


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                                 No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY98                                                            55.55
                     FY99                                                           223.06
                     FY00                                         12                 11.40
                     FY01                                                              2.47
                     FY02                                                              0.71
                     FY03                                                              0.28
                     FY04                                                              0.00
                     FY05                                                              0.00
                     FY06                                                              0.00
                     FY07                                                              0.00
                                        Total:                    12                293.47
Supervision/ICR
                     FY98                                                              0.00
                     FY99                                                            15.97
                     FY00                                         10                 58.99
                     FY01                                         23                 66.80
                     FY02                                         23                 60.89
                     FY03                                         36                 85.97
                     FY04                                         12                 36.67
                     FY05                                         13                 32.59
                     FY06                                         37                109.15
                     FY07                                                            11.66
                                        Total:                   154                478.69




                                            30

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Moderately Satisfactory
Entry:
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                               31

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Main findings of the Social, Economic and Environmental Impact Evaluation of Projects of the
Egyptian Social Fund for Development (August 2006)

Below are the main findings of the independent impact evaluation of SFD activities in the areas of
public works and community development for the period 2000-2004, that was carried out at the
request of the SFD. [The Impact Evaluation also covers micro-finance activities, which are included in
this summary]. The quantitative elements of the evaluation were derived from a Household Income,
Expenditure, and Consumption Survey, and two household surveys. Qualitative evaluation findings
are based on focus group discussions and individual interviews with key stakeholders in 18
communities covering 38 SFD interventions.

Impact

Regardless of the type of intervention, communities considered almost all interventions (an average
99.4 percent) to have been community priorities. Participating communities generally observed a high
beneficial impact of SFD interventions (for instance, between 80 and 90 percent of communities with
interventions in education, potable water, road pavement, and environmental projects observed high
impacts). Most communities attributed the positive impact of SFD interventions to improvements in
health and living standards.

Education
Large positive impacts were perceived of SFD education projects: 41 percent of communities
perceived increasing girls' enrollment as the main benefit from SFD classes, 16 and 14 percent viewed
the main benefit to be decreasing school drop out rates, and increased living standards, respectively.
Over one third of communities indicated that education increased public awareness, and one quarter
perceived this SFD intervention to have led to positive change in public behavior.

Of the direct beneficiaries of SFD classes, 5 percent benefited from the intervention through
improving their working status, and 3 percent by increasing their income. These percentages are
significantly higher than for non-SFD projects. SFD illiteracy eradication classes were significantly
more successful compared to non-SFD classes, as 86 percent of participants obtained certificates
versus 79 percent of non-SFD beneficiaries.

Health
Of communities with SFD health interventions, 68 percent indicated that these had a strong positive
impact, reflected in improved health, the provision of better health services, and increased living
standards. Seventy percent of the communities perceived a decrease in the outbreak of diseases and
epidemics. Improved pre- and post-natal care and health services, in combination with raised
awareness, and improved water and sanitation conditions, resulted in a reduction in under-five
mortality rates in communities with SFD interventions.

Around half of the direct beneficiaries of both SFD and non-SFD health interventions perceived the
quality of the provided service to be good. The share of beneficiaries judging the quality to be bad is
significantly higher for SFD interventions (18 percent) than for non-SFD interventions (10 percent)
and was largely perceived to be due to shortages in trained personnel and medicine.




                                                  32

Potable Water Interventions
SFD potable water projects were perceived as having a strong impact (90 percent), among others by
improving the health status of beneficiaries and increasing living standards. SFD potable water
interventions are considered to have a strong environmental impact through improvements of water
quality, the preservation of natural resources and the environment, and reductions in the outbreak of
diseases. At the household level, potable water projects have reduced health expenditures.

Sewerage
Over 70 percent of beneficiary communities reported a strong positive impact of sewerage
interventions, mainly due to improved health status, the provision of youth employment, time savings,
better service, and positive changes in public conduct. Two thirds of communities reported a strong
positive environmental impact of wastewater projects due to an improved environment and the
preservation of natural resources, and a reduction of disease outbreaks.

Road Paving
SFD support with regard to road paving mainly consists of building or upgrading rural access roads.
These interventions have improved the quality of roads to and from towns. The main impacts on
communities have been the improved quality of public transportation, time savings, improved health
status due to better access to health services, a reduction in road accidents, and better accessibility to
public services. Household data suggest that road pavement contributed to the creation of a healthier
environment for beneficiary communities.

Environmental
SFD interventions have improved agricultural drainage. Of all beneficiary communities, 88
percent reported a strong positive impact on the community, and 80 percent indicated a strong impact
on the environment. Main improvements are better hygiene and health, increases in the price of
agricultural land, improved environment, natural resource preservation, a reduction in pollution and
the outbreak of diseases and epidemics, and savings of irrigation water.

Targeting

Geographical targeting by Governorate: The allocation of funds of both the CDP and PWP has been
biased toward the poorer governorates. However, considering the poverty in these governorates
compared to those with lower poverty levels, SFD allocations to the poorer governorates have fallen
short.

Geographical targeting by community: The benefit incidence curve, based on comparing the earning
distribution of households in communities that benefited from SFD interventions to the earning
distribution of the population as a whole, reveals that SFD targeting has been relatively neutral, with
targeting being slightly more progressive in urban areas than in rural areas. Health, potable water, and
urban environmental interventions were progressive, while sewerage, road pavement, and rural
education sub-projects were regressive.

Participation [Aggregate figures include micro-finance projects, which were alos reviewed in the
Impact Evaluation]

SFD interventions have benefited from community participation in setting the project idea, in
designing the project through NGOs channels and in searching for financial resources. In about half of
the SFD's sub-projects, communities participated in the choice of the project, with relatively high
participation observed in potable water interventions (57 percent), and relatively low participation in
the choice of health projects (23 percent). Compared to other implementing agencies, participation in


                                                    33

the choice of SFD-projects was relatively high for potable water and waste water projects, and
relatively low for environmental and health interventions.

During project implementation, approximately one third of communities participated in problem
solving and operating the project, 10 percent provided in-kind contributions, and 7 percent raised
funds and paid financial contributions. Participation was slightly weaker in SFD projects than in
interventions by other implementing agencies. There are, however, differences between various types
of sub-projects. For instance, both financial and in-kind contributions and community involvement in
implementation was relatively strong in SFD potable water projects, while participation through
financial contributions and fund-raising activities was also stronger in waste water and road paving
interventions. Community participation in SFD interventions was relatively limited in health and
education projects, although there in-kind contributions were relatively high in SFD health
interventions.




                                                   34

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                     35

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A r a b R e p u b l i c o f E g y p t

S o c i a l F u n d f o r D e v e l o p m e n t


Mr. Emmanuel Mbi

Director, Egypt , Yemen and Djibouti Country Department

Middle East and North African Region


Dear Mr. Emmanuel


Subject : Egypt Social Fund III Project ( Cr. 3230 - EGT) Final Draft of
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)

With reference to your letter dated 8th of October, 2006, regarding the above mentioned
subject, we hereby acknowledge our general acceptance of the Bank ICR for IDA credit no 3032.
However we would like to point out two remarks.


First:


We are referring here to our previous comment on the draft ICR included in Annex 10 as we still
don't agree with the rating of the community development component as "Moderately
Satisfactory". This rating is not in line with actual findings and recommendations of the
MDRM. Also the findings of the impact assessment stating that "almost all CDP interventions
have been community priorities".


In addition the CDP interventions have benefited from community participation in setting the
project idea, in designing the project through NGO channels and in mobilizing financial
resources".


Also it is highlighted the fact that this component met or surpassed all of its revised targets. It is
to be noted that the CDP Major counterpart in implementing its projects are the NGOs and that its
main focus and element of success is participation through out all phases of its subprojects.
Therefore we believe that it's not enough to add this comment in an annex but the rating needs to
be changed in the main text.

Second:
We believe that rating the performance of the SFD as an implementing agency as "Moderately
Satisfactory" does not truly reflect the actual effort done by SFD.
Specially starting from 2003 till 2005 which are the actual years of implementation.




                                                    36

Finally we would like to express our gratitude to the World Bank as a whole and special gratitude
to the ICR team for their cooperation and support


Best regards,


Yours sincerely,


Omar EL Farouk Amin Omar


General Manager, Human and Community Development Group

Social Fund for Development




                                                  37

                    Government of Egypt
                 Social Fund for Development




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



                            ON A



                           CREDIT



IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.9 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                           TO THE



                 ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT



                           FOR A



       THIRD SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                         Cr No. 3032




                             38

List of Abbreviations



CD                   Community Development
CDP                  Community Development Program
EAs                  Executing Agencies
EDD                  Environment and Development Department
EDU                  Environment and Development Unit
EGP                  Egyptian Pound
EU                   European Union
GALAE                General Authority for Adult Learning and Education
GoE                  Government of Egypt
HCDG                 Human and Community Development Group
HQ                   Headquarters
IDA                  International Development Association
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MDRM                 Multi-Donor Review Mission
MTR                  Mid-term Review
NGOs                 Non Governmental Organization
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PIUs                 Project Implementation Units
PPHD                 Public Projects and Human Development Group
PW                   Public Works
PWP                  Public Works Program
RO                   Regional Office
SA                   Sponsoring Agency
SFD                  Social Fund for Development
TCF                  Total Component Funding
WB                   World Bank
WBI                  World Bank Institute




                                                   39

1. Introduction


In 1999, The World Bank and the Arab Republic of Egypt concluded a cooperation agreement to provide a
financial support to Egypt in pursuit of its developmental objectives. In which agreement, the Bank was to provide
a loan amounting to US$50.0 Million (SDR 36.9 Million) to support the implementation of the Third Social Fund for
Development Project (Credit no. 3032). The project will be of two-year duration and was originally planned to
close in Dec. 2002. In Sept. 2002, the Bank extended the credit closing date from its original date of 31, Dec.
2002 to 31 Dec. 2004 to compensate for the considerable delay in Project implementation. Moreover, in pursuant
to a request from SFD in August 2004, an additional one-year credit extension period has been granted by the
Bank in Dec. 2004. This brings the credit closing date to 28 Feb. 2006. The last one-year extension period was
granted to enable SFD to utilize the surplus funds to finance the implementation of a group of subprojects and
technical assistance activities that support SFD's institutional development as part of its transition into a new
phase. The surplus fund has resulted from the devaluation of the Egyptian currency against the US Dollar on one
hand, and the appreciation of the SDR against the US Dollar, on the other hand. During the latest one-year
extension period, the focus of the extension activities has been on addressing the long standing issues related to
Environmental Safeguards, Operations and Maintenance, Monitoring & Evaluation including a rigorous impact
evaluation study of PWP & CDP activities.



             Project name: Third Social Fund for Development                County: Arab Republic of Egypt
             Project ID: 52705


             Project Financing Data
             IDA III share: U$ 50.0 Million (SDR 36.9)                          GOE share: EGP 50.0 Million

             Grace period (years): 10

             Years of maturity: 35
             Service charge: 0.75%


             Original Budget Allocation                                          Revised Budget Allocation
             CD Component: U$ 17.0 Million                                   CD Component: U$ 10.0 Million
             PW Component: U$ 33.0 Million                                  PW Component: U$ 40.0 Million


             Key Dates:
             PCD: 22-9-1998

             Appraisal: 30-1-1999
             Approval: 1-6-1999


             Original Project Implem. Period: 00 ­ 02           Revised Project Implem. Period:    ­ 06
             Original completion date: 30-06-02                         Revised completion date: 28-02-2006
             Original MTR: 30-6-2001                                                Actual MTR: 14-12-2003
             Original closing date: 31-12-2002                               Actual closing date: 28-02-2006


2. Objectives


2.1 Original Objectives


In principle, the Project supports two of the four Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy priorities; private
sector led growth and human resources development. These two priorities are designed to support Egypt's goal
of reducing unemployment and raising living standards of Egyptian population. The Project's immediate objective
is to help SFD create jobs and provide community infrastructure and services through labor-intensive works.




                                                            40

2.2 Revised Objectives


The objectives were not revised


3. Original Project Components and Objectives


In general, the Project supports two main components within SFD:


    1.   Public Works Program1(Labor Intensive Works): to implement small-scale public works sub-projects in
         partnership with community and local authorities.
    2.   Community Development Program1: to support the development of community-based infrastructure
         and services, in partnership with local groups to reduce poverty, improve the quality of life and prompt
         community and NGOs participation.

3.1 Public Works Program

The Public Works Program (PWP) of SFD is designed to:


(a) Establish labor-based infrastructure, and
(b) Create temporary jobs in the local communities of project implementation.

In order to meet its mandate, the PWP undertook construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of essential
municipal services in areas facing budgetary contraction, high incidence of poverty and unemployment. PWP sub-
projects were executed by local private contractors using local labor, and included construction and rehabilitation
of water supply systems and sewerage systems, rural roads paving, covering irrigation and drainage canals, etc.,
and maintenance such as cleaning canals, and rehabilitating public buildings.


3.2 Community Development Program


The Community Development Program (CDP), an integral part of the SFD, was designed to finance
improvements in:


(a) Productive activities focusing on income and employment generation; and
(b) Social development activities to improve the delivery of essential services to poor communities.

CDP focuses on the provision of health, education and training services to poor population groups. Through its
integrated project activities, CDP has infused communities with an enhanced level of social awareness and self-
esteem, especially for women. CDP represents an important vehicle for mobilizing the energies and resources of
community groups, local governments, NGOS, and the private sector by using a participatory approach, thus
leading to more sustainable projects. The promotion of self-help activities can be seen as the cornerstone of CDP
projects and an effective mechanism for addressing poverty alleviation. In addition, CDP's flexibility and
decentralized approach allows it to exploit the diverse strengths of different stakeholders, to benefit from the
geographical coverage that multiple organizations might be able to provide, and to finance projects
simultaneously in multiple sectors

4. Project Funding

4.1 Costs and financing:

Projects costs
As per the Project Appraisal Document, the total project cost was estimated at US$65 million. This included an




1PWP and CDP changed to Departments since July 2002 under Human and Community Development Group (HCDG).



                                                        41

IDA credit of US$50 million (SDR 36.9 Million), Government co-financing of US$10 million, and beneficiary
contribution of US$5 million. When the project became effective budgeting and reporting on financial issues were
only done for the IDA credit amounted to US$50 million, and afterwards the surplus fund resulted from the
appreciation of the SDR against the US$ (US$ 3.7 million). Government contributions were not included in any
reports as they were to be used to fund sub-projects outside the scope of this Project, institutional development
activities and operating costs.


As per the original Project design, almost 66% o the total Project funding amounting to US$33.0 million was
allocated to the activities of the Public Works component, whereas the remaining 34% amounting to US$17.0
million was allocated to those of the Community Development component. Upon agreement with the Bank, Public
Works component funding was increased from its original value to a total of US$40.0 Million (80% of the total
Project funding), thus bringing the share of the Community Development component down to only US$10.0
Million (20% of the total Project funding). The reallocation was envisaged to ensure the Project completion within
the remaining period of the first agreed two-year credit extension. The reallocation was also based on the shorter
implementation cycle of PW activities compared to that of CD activities, on one hand, and the capacity of
sponsoring agencies to implement sub-projects faster than NGOs, on the other hand.


At the closing date, the actual cost has been estimated at US$61.9 million, with an IDA credit of US$53.0 million,
Government co-financing (counterpart funding) of US$4 million, and beneficiary contributions of US$4.9 million.
As such, there has been an undisturbed balance of US$6 million equivalent in the counterpart funds. The
difference between the original IDA credit (US$50 million) and that of the end-of-project (US$53.7 million)
represents the surplus fund resulted from the appreciation of the SDR against the US Dollar, of which US$0.7
remains unused.


The allocation of Project funds to PW and CD components in both US$ and EGP is presented in table (1). As can
be seen from the table, the Project value in EGP has almost doubled from a total of EGP 170.0 million at the time
the agreement was signed in 1999 to an aggregate of EGP 310 million in 2003 and EGP 336.2 million at the end
of Project implementation in 2006. This is mainly ascribed to - as indicated earlier in this report ­ the deprecation
of the Egyptian currency against the US Dollar, and the appreciation of the SDR against the US Dollar, on the
other hand.


      Table (1): Components Allocations

Component                                            PAD Allocation                 MTR Allocation                End-of-project
                                                                                                                    Allocation
                                               US$             EGP              US$             EGP          US$1         EGP

Public Works                                   33.0            112.2            40.0            220.0        42.7         273.2
Community Development                          17.0            57.8             10.0            56.7         10.3         63.0
Total                                          50.0            170.0            50.0            276.7        53.0         336.2
1. Final fund allocation in US Dollar includes the surplus fund resulted from the depreciation of the US$ against the SDR




5. IDA III Resources Allocation:


When allocating financial resources to various areas across Egypt, both in functional and geographical terms,
PWP and CDP were guided by the targeting mechanisms developed throughout phase I, II and bridging phase of
SFD. They were also guided by: (a) donors' priorities and thematic focus, (b) community needs as expressed by
the community members and their representatives, and (c) SFD strategic directions. As such, the final distribution
pattern of IDA III credit does not fully reflect that of the whole SFD. This is mainly ascribed to the fact that IDA III
fund is just a complementary fund to an exiting pool of funds drawn from various donors of varying thematic focus
and priorities.



                                                                     42

The IDA credit amounting to US$ 42.7 million equivalent was allocated to the PW component, primarily for
projects in Environment (29% TCF), Potable Water (29% TCF), Wastewater (18% TCF), Roads (15% TCF),
Studies and Contingencies (5% TCF), and Public Buildings (3% TCF). Likewise, the IDA credit amounting to
US$10.3 million equivalent was allocated to the CD component, primarily for projects in NGOs Capacity
Development (34% TCF), Environment (26% TCF), Education (20% TCF), Health (16% TCF), and Training (4%
TCF).


6. Outputs and outcome


PWP and CDP estimated end-of-project outputs as per Annex 8 of the PAD2 were adjusted three times, in
February 2003, during the Dec 2003 Mid-term Review (MTR) and in early 2005 upon setting the plans for utilizing
the surplus funds. While adjusting the original outputs as per Annex 8 of the PAD, SFD was guided by the
following factors:

     ·   New directions in sector policies,
     ·   The agreed credit re-allocation between PW and CD components,
     ·   The depreciation of the Egyptian currency against the US Dollar, and the appreciation of the SDR
         against the US Dollar,
     ·   The increase in PW and CD component funding in EGP from their original PAD values of 170.0 million to
         336.2 million at the closing date,.
     ·   The increase in the unit costs of deliverables for the two components associated with the increase in the
         prices of the construction material,
     ·   SFD priorities, at the time the revised output list was developed,
     ·   Community needs as expressed by community members and their representatives,
     ·   Targeting indicators, as per Priority Targeting & Human Development Reports, and
     ·   Complementarity of SFD projects to a number of on-going governmental plans. Examples include Health
         Sector Reform Project, and National plan for eradication of illiteracy.

In general, the project has not only achieved but surpassed its original and revised outputs.


6.1 Public Works Component


This component has almost reached its infrastructure targets and came close to reaching its labor
intensity targets. The PW Component has financed an aggregate of 60 main projects. They embraced 1390
labor-intensive type of sub-projects worth US$ 42.7 million equivalent (EGP 273.2 million) in a number of
functional sectors; roads, potable water, wastewater, environment, and public buildings. The most significant
achievements include the rehabilitation and construction of: 1268 km of potable water networks, 48 water tanks,
42 artisan wells, 5200 potable water house connections, 145 km of wastewater network, 4 wastewater treatment
plants, 16 wastewater pumping stations, 85 km of canal covering, 19 canal protection, 88 km of landscaping, 244
km of roads, and the refurbishment of 83 public buildings. They are all meant to empower communities and
improve their living conditions in the areas where the projects were implemented. They also addressed the needs
-as expressed by the community members and their representatives - of around 4.9 million beneficiaries located
in almost 715 rural communities and poor areas in urban governorates. The beneficiaries' in-cash contributions to
the Project implementation amounted to US$ 4.9million equivalent (EGP 29.5 million), thus exceeding the in-cash
beneficiary contribution as per PAD by almost 20%. The implemented projects have created during the
implementation phase - a total of 51,580 jobs, each sustainable for an average period of 6 months, and 1520
permanent jobs in the operation phase. In this regard, SFD has taken every action possible to ensure that at least



2The Sectoral Budget Breakdown and sub-sectoral outputs expected at the end of Project, stated in Annex 8 of the PAD, are
not comparable to those that have been already estimated by CD and PW components, for a number of reasons. Some reasons
are presented in the following section, while others include the evident contradiction amongst figures presented in Annex 2 and
Annex 8 of the PAD.



                                                                43

50% of the jobs created were targeted properly to those local labors that live in the immediate vicinity of project
implementation sites. It has been further noted by MDRM II that most of the temporary jobs created during
implementation were held by poor or very poor people in the areas where projects were implemented. Labor
intensity ratio was estimated at 26.2 percent, which is slightly below the 30 percent estimate of the PAD, due to a
global increase in the price of construction material, a development that was out of the SFD's control.


6.2 Community Development Component


The CD component met and surpassed its community infrastructure, services and job targets of the original PAD
and revised targets. The CDP has financed an aggregate of 86 projects worth US$ 10.3 million equivalent (EGP
63.75 million) in a number of functional sectors; health, education, environment, training and NGOs capacity
building. They are all meant to empower communities and improve their living conditions in the areas where the
project were implemented. The CD implemented projects have addressed the problems and real needs for basic
social services for more than 372,000 beneficiaries located in almost 453 rural communities. The implemented
projects have created -during the implementation phase - a total of 7,134 jobs3; each sustainable for an average
period of 18 months, and 1119 permanent jobs. Some of the main achievements in health include the
rehabilitation of 48 health facilities and the accreditation of 30 NGO as family health services providers which
enabled 150,000 persons to get better quality primary health care services. Achievements in education include
the establishment of 3,846 literacy classes whereby over 80% of the students who were enrolled in literacy
programs passed a literacy test administered by the General Authority for Adult Learning and Education (GALAE),
and 286 youth received some form of vocational training. Over 38,000 people benefited from potable water
household connections, latrines and village level solid waste management activities.


7. Outcome and Impact


Given the definition of outcome, SFD will not to be generally able to assess the outcome and then the impact of
any given project on the welfare of people and communities unless a reasonable period of time has elapsed since
project' s full operation. IDA funded projects are not an exception in this regard. As such, the findings of an
independent impact evaluation study carried out in preparation for the 2004 Multi Donor Review Mission to SFD
(MDRM) can be used. They have suggested that the type and location of the sampled projects selected for the
impact study were suitable to the needs of the poor, who were estimated to make up between 70 and 90 percent
of the population in the communities served. The MDRM indicated that PWP's system and choice of outputs was
in general well designed to meet its goals of addressing poverty through provision of social infrastructure to those
in need and to generate employment. It has also indicated that the efficiency of PWP operations has been and
continues to be quite good, especially given the context of Egypt and in comparison to other infrastructure service
providers operating in the country. They have also indicated that PWP is effective in achieving its immediate
purposes, and the impact of its interventions is mostly positive, high or medium for all sectors. CDP's efficiency is
also satisfactory, given its (a) broad mission, (b) extremely wide range of operational modalities and partners, and
(c) limited workforce at the regional level, the MDRM II added. In addition, CDP has had a positive impact on
large numbers of people spread over all the main regions of Egypt. Furthermore, from the perspective of the
target group, the facilities of the two components (PW and CD) were found to respond to local needs and made




3 Generally, job opportunities are calculated on site by means of daily logs that register labours' names and wages. They are
then calculated on a man/ day basis, which is a direct translation of the site daily logs. These figures are then divided by 25
working days per month to transform them into a man/ month job opportunities. For PWP, a temporary job opportunity is
actually an individual who works on a subproject, which lasts on average 6 months, from beginning to end. Thus man/ month job
opportunities aggregated on site are divided by six, to calculate the real temporary job opportunities. As for CDP, man/ month
figures are simply translated into man/ project figures according to the average duration of a CDP project, which is 18 months,
and no subproject calculation is considered. If this is the case, job opportunities created by the two components cannot be
added one another, as the base of calculation is different, and will be reported separately.



                                                               44

an important difference for the beneficiary communities.

The findings of a rigorous impact assessment study financed by the WB in collaboration with the WBI have
revealed that SFD interventions are mostly pro-poor. They have also revealed that SFD interventions were
targeted to those areas where development indicators are low when compared to other non SFD interventions.
Most SFD projects were needed by the communities where projects were implemented irrespective of their
project types. Community participation has taken several forms throughout project life time. It spans from needs
assessment and priorities setting, to in-cash and kind contribution and problem solving during implementation and
operation phase. Statistical differences were found between SFD projects and non-sfd projects with respect to
consultation with the community, for potable water, paving roads and micro credit.


 1. Education Projects
    ·    Comparisons of treated and control groups in education show fairly positive impact of SFD illiteracy
         programs on various outcomes.
    ·    Poverty rate decreases as a result of SFD interventions by 30 percent, indicating inverse relationship
         between illiteracy and living standards.
    ·    Potential beneficiaries are less likely to be illiterate, where illiteracy rate is lower in communities received
         SFD illiteracy programs, compared to propensity matched control group.
    ·    Illiteracy programs increase education demand. In communities with SFD education interventions,
         children are more likely to attend school. The enrolment rate in treated communities is statistically
         different from control communities.
    ·    Under five mortality in social fund communities is lower than control communities.

2. Health Projects
    ·    Compared to the control group, SFD health interventions have a very strong impact on reducing poverty
         and narrowing poverty gap.
    ·    The proportion of sick individuals who managed to receive health care for their illness, in SFD treated
         communities, is almost double that of propensity matched communities (86 percent versus 48 percent).
         The difference is highly significant.
    ·    SFD interventions also affect child health. The propensity comparison group points towards significantly
         higher incidence of under-five mortality than the SFD treatment group.

 3. Water Projects
    ·    The impact of SFD potable water interventions on poverty is positive.
    ·    Water projects reduce time spent by women and children who are responsible for water collection and
         water fetching to do every day washing. This in turn might affect, enrolment rate especially among girls.
         Evidence from impact evaluation confirms this hypothesis, where enrolment rate for treatment group is
         higher than the control group by about 8 percent.
    ·    Under five mortality rate in social fund community is lower than the propensity matched communities,
         where difference is statistically significant.

4-Waste Water Projects
    ·    The incidence of poverty in communities received SFD interventions represents 60 percent only of the
         rate prevailed in propensity matched communities.
    ·    Impact on under five mortality rate and enrolment rate were positive, but differences between social
         funds communities and control group are statistically insignificant.

5. Roads Paving Projects
    ·    The percentage of the poor in treated communities is 28 percent less than that of the propensity
         matched untreated communities.
    ·    Expenditure of the poor in SFD communities is closer to the poverty line, compared to propensity
         matched control communities.
    ·    Unemployment rate is significantly lower in treated communities when compared to their propensity
         matched control communities.
    ·    Positive impact of SFD paving roads on reducing fertility and under five mortality were observed, but
         differences between the treatment and control groups were not statistically significant.




                                                            45

6. Micro credit Interventions Beneficiaries of micro credit were asked to evaluate impact of micro credit on their
    living standards, job creation, enrolment of their children, etc.

    ·    Sixty one percent of households in treated communities reported that micro credit had significantly
         improved their income, against 44.1 percent in propensity matched communities.
    ·    Larger percentage of SFD beneficiaries perceived micro credit benefits in reducing child labor.
    ·    Larger percentage of SFD beneficiaries regarded micro credit as means to reduce school drop outs.
    ·    Fewer households in propensity matched communities believed that social capital was improving.

8. Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome


During Project implementation SFD has faced a number of problems that had resulted in a significant delay in the
implementation of Project activities. The problems are mostly centered on the followings:



    ·    Parliamentary approval delays resulted in the Credit Agreement being ratified 9 months after Board
         approval (March 2000).

    ·    The devaluation of the Egyptian currency against the US Dollar experienced in March/ April 2003 has led
         to market instability, especially in the prices of construction materials. The construction industry was very
         much affected, and as a result contractors were reluctant to submit offers for the implementation of SFD
         projects to avoid the risk associated to the highly unexpected increase in the prices of construction
         materials. In many cases, the PIUs and intermediary agencies had to re-tender a number of PW sub-
         projects in an attempt to receive at least three qualified offers. The problem was further compounded as
         contractors tended to overprice their offers - for the implementation of SFD projects -which in a number
         of cases had to be re-tendered to get reasonable prices for implementation according to the prevailing
         market rates. This has prolonged the time required for contract awarding and hence delayed the
         implementation of a considerable number of PW sub-projects.

    ·    The PW allocation in Egyptian pounds has more than doubled from EGP 112.0 million at the time the
         agreement was signed in 1999 to EGP 273 at the end of Project implementation in 2006. As such, PWP
         had to absorb the increased resources and hence manage the implementation of a greater number of
         sub-projects within a limited period of time between 2003 and 2005; a period that has witnessed market
         instability due to the depreciation of the Egyptian currency against the US Dollar.

    ·    Disbursements exceeding EGP 50,000 (US$8,600 equivalent) were subject to the Prime
    ·    Minister's approval, inevitably causing delays in the replenishment of the special account. The situation
         turned for the better in August 2002 when the SFD Board of Directors authorized the Managing Director
         to approve projects and disbursements of up to EGP 5.0 million (US$900,000 equivalent).

    ·    The difficulty in attracting contractors to compete for very small works executed at the district/ village
         level using the National Competitive Procedures. The Bank has agreed in Dec. 2004 to increase the
         threshold of procuring works according to community participation method to US$ 100,000 instead of
         US$ 20,000.

    ·    The Bank's lengthy procedure for processing Withdrawal Applications (WAs) to replenish the Special
         Account and consequently the late release of disbursements to SFD has an inevitable knock on effect
         throughout Project implementation.

    ·    The introduction of several changes to the procurement methods and thresholds from the Bank side after
         the clearance of the first 9 sub-contracts, was an issue that SFD had to live with.

    ·    The changing Bank requirements from one Withdrawal Application to another added more confusion to
         the concerned SFD staff. This has prolonged the time required for SFD to fulfill the Bank's requirements.
         Examples include the shift from Project Management Reports (PMR) to Financial Management Reports
         (FMR) to Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) to Withdrawal Applications (WAs) at the Framework
         Agreement level, and finally to Withdrawal Applications at the sector and subproject level.




                                                           46

       ·   The delay in receiving local contributions from the some Sponsoring Agencies in a number of PW
           projects, has led to a delayed transfer of SFD disbursements to projects. This in turn slowed down the
           implementation of those projects.

 14. Sustainability of SFD interventions4


The Sustainability of SFD interventions is likely

For SFD, sustainability means the ability of its projects to deliver quality benefits to the deprived areas and target
groups for an extended period of time after the main assistance from SFD is at an end, i.e. a continuation in the
stream of benefits produced by the project after the period of SFD support has ended.

In this regard, SFD has carried out in the year 2000 a study to assess the sustainability of all KfW-funded projects
through phase I & II. The sample included a sum of eleven main projects worth slightly less than US$ 25.0 million
equivalent (EGP 100.0 Million). The study investigated three major project aspects at the operation phase;
Technical Conditions, Operation Efficiency, and Utilization Rate. The methodology was applied in the first
instance at the sub-project level, and latter the results were aggregated from lowest to highest levels, i.e. from
sub-projects and main projects level to the whole agreement. The overall level of satisfaction was based on the
rating of project performance in each of the three project aspects in question. The study findings have revealed
that an overall satisfaction level of 95% was reached.

In addition, SFD has undertaken a number of measures, since its inception in 1992, to ensure the sustainability of
its interventions. Sustainability measures have been considered throughout project development cycle, ranging
from project identification and formulation to project implementation and operation.


14.1 During Project Identification and Formulation


- As for PWP, SFD establishes a maintenance fund in advance for each project with contributions equivalent to
    10 percent of the project cost from the sponsoring agencies and/or beneficiaries and an additional 10 percent
    from itself,
- SFD conducted small contractor training over a two-year period to increase the number of qualified contractors
    capable of performing the maintenance work of PWP projects. In addition, CDP projects include technical
    assistance for operations and maintenance.
- As for CDP, soliciting agencies are requested to incorporate mechanisms to be used for cost-recovery,
    operation and maintenance in project proposals. CDP evaluates the institutional capacity of the soliciting
    agency and feasibility of the proposed mechanism to ensure proper operation and maintenance,
- SFD uses a community partnership approach with local organizations to help maintain projects,
- SFD is stimulating community involvement and active NGOs participation throughout project development
    stages. Experience has shown that, communities have developed a sense of ownership through their
    participation in project design and implementation, and are now willing to contribute to its financing and ensure
    it is maintained and properly operating,
- SFD is promoting community ownership of CDP projects by involving all stakeholders in the project's steering
    committee and promoting in-cash and in-kind contributions,
- SFD is adopting Participatory Planning, and Participatory Rapid Appraisal techniques (PRA) in project
    identification and design. Those techniques have been introduced across SFD
- SFD has been working towards improving managerial, technical and implementation capacity of NGOs
    and partner agencies,




4 Sustainability: Durability of positive program or project results after the termination of the technical cooperation channelled
through that program or project; static sustainability-the continuous flow of the same benefits, set in motion by the completed
program or project, to the same target groups; dynamic sustainability-the use or adaptation of program or project results to a
different context or changing environment by the original target groups and/or other groups. For an outcome, it reflects whether
the positive change in development situation will endure.



                                                                 47

During project pre-appraisal and appraisal stages, the focus of SFD is to ensure existence of the following
conditions:


- Relevance of project objectives to:
          The real problems, needs and priorities of the intended target groups that the project is supposed to
          address
          The physical and policy environment within which the projects operate
          SFD objectives and strategies
          Donor requirements; including thematic focus and priorities

- Socio-economic feasibility of the project
- Appropriateness of technology used in project design and implementation to the end beneficiaries, and their
   surrounding environment
- Support of various stakeholders
- Environmental protection in the short, medium and long term
- Mainstreaming of gender and socio-cultural issues
- Institutional, technical, implementation capacity of NGOs, and sponsoring and intermediary agencies


14.2 During Project Implementation


- SFD allocates part of its resources to enhance the institutional, technical, and implementation capacity of its
   staff at both central and regional level, NGOs, and sponsoring and intermediary agencies
- SFD upgrades and utilizes the regional capacity of its ROs
- SFD through its regional offices, PIUs and intermediary agencies, is closely monitoring project implementation
   to ensure the quality of deliverables and services provided.


14.3 During Operation


Proper maintenance through


- Mobilization of O&M necessary resources and commitments.
- Encouraging national and international contributions towards O&M activities
- Testing different O&M models
- Upgrading O&M skills of local staff

It is also worth noting that operation and maintenance costs are allocated within each line ministries' budget;
therefore, projects implemented by or handed over to public sector would be ensured a budget for such activities.
In addition, projects involving direct community implementation institute mechanisms to recover sufficient funds
through modest fees and in-kind contribution to cover costs of operation and maintenance.


14.4 SFD Strategy of Institutional Sustainability


In 2001 SFD has developed and adopted its institutional developed strategy (IDS) with the technical assistance
provided through EU. It was developed to enable SFD to achieve its objectives in an efficient and effective
manner. To ensure success and hence sustainability, the objectives of SFD IDS are geared towards improving
the efficiency of SFD operations and the effectiveness of its interventions For SFD, Effectiveness means its
competence in understanding present and future situations, demands of target groups, socio-economic trends,
competitors, interest of stakeholders, and matching environmental demands with SFD internal situation. Also,
efficiency means that SFD acquires a set of skills, known to be as Core Competencies that deliver capacity to
provide a service or product for the market. In addition, SFD will achieve mastery of some new competencies in
financial management, human resource management and information management. In this regard, the followings



                                                         48

have been completed:

    ·    Strengthening SFD human resource base and its partners. This entailed conducting a series of
         workshops focusing on areas related to their work at both strategic as well as operational levels.
    ·    The production of Environmental Safeguards and Mainstreaming of Environment into SFD Project Cycle.
    ·    The establishment of Operations and Maintenance model
    ·    The development of a Monitoring & Evaluation system, including a rigorous impact evaluation study of
         PWP & CDP,
    ·    The adoption of Local Area Development Approach. SFD has taken concrete actions to enhance its
         poverty focus by adopting the Local Area Development Approach, and prioritizing areas where poverty
         has increased. The SFD agreed to improve its targeting mechanism based on the country poverty map
         and adopted the recommendations of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper to enhance the role of SFD
         as a social safety net, and a third pillar of the national development strategy for poverty alleviation. SFD
         intends to mainstream the LAD approach to : (i) pre-select poor regions and conduct community needs
         assessment surveys, (ii) work towards more community participation by the formation of community
         groups to identify and implement projects to meet these needs, and
    ·    (iii) establish a monitoring and evaluation system to examine the approach functionality and impact.
    ·    The development of Targeting Tool Kit: In an attempt to further improve the quality of geographic
         targeting to poor areas and poor households, a model for poverty map development is finalized through
         the financial support of the KfW.


15. Major Lessons Learnt


15.1. Strengths


   15.1.1 Participation:


        Community/ local involvement: Stimulating community involvement and active NGO participation in
        Egypt can be regarded as a dramatic transformation and departure from the reliance of communities on
        the public sector for the provision of services. Therefore the promotion of self-help activities can be seen
        as the cornerstone of CDP projects and an effective mechanism for addressing poverty alleviation".2
        Through their participation in project selection, design and implementation, communities have developed
        a sense of ownership of the project and are now willing to contribute to its financing and ensure it is
        maintained and properly operating.


        Responsiveness to local needs and requirements: Community involvement at the stages of needs
        assessment and project design has ensured that different projects respond to local needs and priorities.


   15.1.2 Delivery Mechanisms:


        SFD as a delivery mechanism is a "large yet small channel among institutional actors in social
        development in Egypt. With a total budget of about USD 2 billion for Phases 1 and 2, the SFD is a
        relatively small but significant player in the social development efforts in Egypt. The main strength of SFD
        is that it relies on a wide network of institutional partners in implementation of interventions. SFD has thus
        invested in setting strategies to work with and through numerous sponsoring, executing, and
        implementing agencies. By so doing SFD not only builds on its strength as an effective and efficient
        delivery mechanism, it also supports the decentralization process in Egypt by:


                          a. helping to build local capacity to develop and execute projects of importance to the
                             community by providing training to NGOs, intermediaries and beneficiaries; and
                          b. transferring participatory approaches to government agencies and intermediaries
                             through the provision of training to ministry staff.




                                                           49

   Partners for development: SFD works with numerous partners: NGOs and local Community associations,
   banks, private sector entities, as well as some governmental agencies. Over its years of experience SFD has
   acquired expertise in identification of partners suitable for different interventions. For credit operations SFD
   works extensively through banks as sponsoring agencies and, often with NGOs as executing or implementing
   (the micro-credit of CDP, and tri-partite contracts with banks promoted by SEDO. In the areas of Social
   Development (education, health) SFD works with both NGOs CDAs, as well as some governmental agencies.
   The HRDP operates primarily through governmental agencies ­because of the nature of its projects.


   Because of the nature of its projects, and the need for a high level of technical expertise during their design
   and implementation, PWP relies on government authorities to be its primary type of project Sponsoring
   Agency (SA). PWP has also experimented with non-government organizations to act as SAs on some of its
   projects in an attempt to pave the road for more NGOs participation as business partners with PWP on future
   projects. According to the terms stated PWP projects are implemented exclusively by private contractors and
   workgroups that act as Executing Agencies (EAs).


   Capacity building: A cornerstone of SFD activities is the provision of capacity building to partners agencies.
   This is done 1in two ways:


                         a. by including an administrative support component as part of each SFD contract with
                              sponsoring executing agency, and
                         b. by designing specific capacity building projects for partners.

   In the case of NGOs, SFD encourages the larger NGOs to provide technical assistance to the smaller &
   weaker ones there by promoting continuous learning among similar organizations.


15.1.3 Effective Outreach:


   Regional Offices: SFD has developed an effective outreach mechanism through its network of Regional
   Offices. One of SFD's comparative advantages is its ability to implement programs through its partners at
   local levels. Extensive nation-wide field presence through Regional Offices enables an extended SFD
   outreach to the target groups and to generate project proposals.


   Field Workers: SFD employs over 300 field workers to work directly with the local authorities and
   associations, and local Communities.           The involvement of the field workers is at the level of needs
   assessment, project design, follow-up during implementation, and in evaluations and impact assessments.

   From Central to Local Authorities: SFD has proven successful in bridging the gap between central and
   regional authorities. It contributed to the capacity building of many local actors including local governments,
   regional CDAs and NGOs and made them capable partners in the development process.


15.2: Constraints


     15.2.1 Pressures:


        SFD is subjected to multiple pressures from its various stakeholders, which have an impact on the
        operational autonomy of SFD, sector selection, and allocation of funds.


        Line Ministries: One of the areas that were raised in the MDRM report was that because SFD can
        mobilize external and internal resources that are outside the normal confines of the GOE budget, it can
        find itself in difficult situations where too much is expected of its resources or the demands do not fit its



                                                         50

 mission and long term strategy. One of the major concerns of donors has been that SFD provides
 funding for projects with a number of Line Ministries. The concern that was highlighted is that SFD
 funding should address gaps or provide innovative solutions to the programs of the line ministries.


 Donors: SFD has come under pressures from donors in a number of ways.


 -Lack of Synergy:


 SFD is interacting with a large number of multilateral and bilateral donors. Each donor has his own set of
 independent review missions, which places a burden on SFD management and operations. The Multi-
 Donor review Mission fielded in April 2000 was an attempt on the side of the donor community and SFD
 to test the benefits of a collective review.


 -Delay Fund Receipt and Earmarking:


 Another constraint posed on SFD is the delay in the receipt of funds from donors. The MDRM highlighted
 that at 31/12/99, SFD has advanced USD 39 Million from its internal funds on behalf of IDA and the
 European Union. SFD programs are under pressure for preferential resource allocations and there is a
 concern of donor earmarking their contributions.         In addition, donor requests (e.g. decentralization,
 monitoring, community participation) must take into consideration the consequent increase in
 administrative costs. It is not possible to place all the burden of administrative on UNDP as SFD expands
 in scope and number of projects.


 -Delay Feedback:


 In few instances, feedback from donor missions is provided to SFD after a long time. Timely response to
 concerns requires immediate feedback.


15.2.2 External Environment:


 Some constrains that are extraneous to SFD, impact the operations of the organization. Similarly, the
 environment of financial markets poses a constraint to SFD credit operations.




                                                   51

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                     52

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

- Borrower's ICR
- Economic Research Forum, February 2005, Poverty Reduction Action Plan (PRAP) "Ammar
  Program", Program Summary Report
- European Commission, July 2004, Impact Assessment of the Egyptian Social Fund for
  Development (SFD), Draft Consolidated Report
- European Commission, September 2004, Impact Assessment of the Egyptian Social Fund for
  Development (SFD), Draft Consolidated Report
- Government of Egypt, Social Fund for Development, March 2000, Multi-Donor Review of SFD,
  Draft Final Report
- Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, Ministry of Planning, World Bank, September 2004, A
  Poverty Reduction Strategy for Egypt, Report No. 27954-EGT
- Government of Egypt, Social Fund for Development, October 2004, Final Draft Report of the
  Multi-Donor Review Mission II
- Social Fund for Development, Egypt, August 2006, Social, Economic and Environmental Impact
  Evaluation of Projects of the Egyptian Social Fund for Development
- World Bank, May 1997, Country Assistance Strategy for the Arab Republic of Egypt, Report No.
  16533-EGT
- World Bank, December 1997, Implementation Completion Report, Arab Republic of Egypt, Social
  Fund Project (Credit no. 2276- EGT), Report No. 17248
- World Bank, May 1999, Project Appraisal Document on a proposed credit of SDR 36.9 million to
  the Arab Republic of Egypt for a Third Social Fund for Development Project, Report No. 19044-
  EGT
- World Bank, December 2001, Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the Amount of
  SDR 82.3 million to the Arab Republic of Egypt for a Second Social Fund, Report No. 22524
- World Bank, December 2005, Egypt : Toward a More Effective Social Policy: Subsidies and Social
  Safety Net, Report No. 33550-EG




                                                 53

MAP




       54

