Report No. PID6947
Project Name                     Egypt-Third Social Fund for Development (+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       EGPA52705
Borrower                         Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agency              Social Fund for Development
1 Hussein Hegazy Street (off Kasr El Aini
Street), Cairo, Egypt
Tel: 20-2-3540077/ 3548339 / 3559877
Fax: 20-2-3561660 / 3550628
Date PID Prepared                October 8, 1998
Projected Appraisal              February 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 25, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background: Egypt has successfully completed its
economic stabilization program and has started the more difficult economic
restructuring phase. Economic growth has resumed but the country needs to
spread the benefits of growth through job-creation and poverty reduction. The
Social Fund for Development (SFD) created in 1991 has been a successful job-
creation institution in Egypt. The situation with respect to the principal
sector issues is as follows:
Unemployment: Despite improvements in economic growth, unemployment remains
high (estimates range from 10-20 percent) as traditional opportunities have
dried up while new ones are yet to be created. The age structure of
unemployment is also a cause for concern with 70 percent of the unemployed
being 19 years of age or under. The Government considers employment generated
by the private sector as its top priority.
Poverty: Even though the situation in rural Egypt appears to have improved
over the last few years, poverty is still an important phenomenon and needs
addressing. Although Egypt's poverty is relatively shallow and much of it can
be eliminated by moderate economic growth, the poorest of the poor; among whom
women and children feature disproportionately; may benefit from targeted
programs. For both unemployment and poverty there is a need for improved data
and monitoring.
Community Based Development: While the Government offers a broad array of
services in Egypt, it has tended to be centralized in approach and inefficient
and ineffective in service delivery. Decentralization and diversification of
social service delivery systems need to be continued.
Labor Redundancies: In the last year the Government has accelerated the
restructuring and/or privatization of public enterprises albeit from a low
base. This results in the need to provide support to redundant workers
through labor adjustment programs.
2.      Objectives: The project objectives are to help reduce poverty and improve
standards of living of low income groups by: (a) creating jobs through support
of small enterprises and labor intensive works; (b) supporting community



infrastructure and services in partnership with local groups; and (c) helping
redundant workers of public enterprises. The proposed project would support a
third phase (2000-2003) of the Social Fund for Development (SFD) which builds
on the achievements and lessons of the first two phases (1992-2000). The
second phase is already being supported by IDA credit 2876. The new IDA
credit and IBRD loan will provide continued support to the SFD.
3.      Description: The proposed project will be the third designed to support
Egypt's Social Fund for Development (SFD). The SFD includes:
Labor Intensive Works Program (PWP): funds small scale public works in
partnership with communities & local governments;
Community Development Program (CDP): funds community based programs, including
microcredit in partnership with NGOs and communities to improve quality of
life and reduce poverty;
Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDO): provides access to credit to
new and existing small businesses through commercial banks; and access to
business services through NGOs and business incubators;
Human Resources Development Program (HRDP): provides labor adjustment programs
for redundant workers of public enterprises and market based skill training
for the unemployed.
Institutional Development Program(IDP): supports, monitors and evaluates other
SFD programs. Carry out poverty monitoring.
4.      Financing :
Source          Local            Foreign         Total
Government       41.5            18.5             60.0
Beneficiaries
& NGOs          52.0             13.0            65.0
IBRD Proposed
Loan            24.4             5.6              30.0
IDA Proposed
Credit           7.24            2.8              50.0
UNDP             5.0             5.0              10.0
Other Donors     187.0          38.0              225.0
Total            317.1          122.9             440.0
5.      Implementation: The Social Fund for Development (SFD) which was
established in 1992 has proven itself to be a successful and efficient
organization to reach poor and under-served populations and to create
employment opportunities. SFD works through partnerships with Governorates,
municipalities, communities, NGOs, restructuring industries and individual
entrepreneurs. SFD operates through procedures which are established and
detailed in operational manuals. The project will be implemented between
2000-2003.
6.      Sustainability: Three aspects of the project need to be considered with
regard to sustainability: the SFD as an institution, its programs, and
individual sub-projects. Sustainability of SFD as an institution over the
medium term is assured, as donor interest and support remain high. In
addition, the Government of Egypt has strengthened its own support by
increasing its contributions to SFD. The SFD has proven to be an important
vehicle to help the central authorities work with regional authorities. It
has shown good results on the ground and in helping build capacity at the
-2 -



local and regional level. While many SFD activities can be transferred to
local authorities over time, global experience indicates that this will happen
very slowly and the need for SFD will continue over a fairly long-time. The
SFD is in the process of transforming its small enterprise program into an
autonomous and financially sustainable agency. This is happening in
accordance with an agreed timetable. The SFD is also taking measures to
ensure improved operations and maintenance of physical assets created under
its projects.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector: The proposed
project reflects lessons from the first Emergency Social Fund project (Cr.2276
and ICR report No.17248) as well lessons of social funds in general. The
project also incorporates lessons from impact assessment of two programs
carried out in 1997. The assessment of two more programs will be completed
this year. The main lessons are:
Financial Sustainability of SFD Enterprise Development Program: While this
program has been very successful in creating jobs, financial viability and
portfolio quality are concerns. The SFD is taking a number of steps to
improve the quality of its existing portfolio. The second major step is to
establish an affiliate of the SFD, the Small Enterprise Development
Organization (SEDO). This would operate on the basis of 'best practice'
principles for small business lending. In addition most units and services of
SEDO are being transformed into profit-centers. It is expected that
eventually these services would recover their full costs from beneficiaries.
Public Works Program Sustainability: Operations and maintenance of the
physical assets created under SFD projects has been problematic and has been
partly caused by weak beneficiary involvement. The situation is being
rectified using a pilot approach of community partnerships with local NGOs to
help maintain projects. The SFD is setting up an endowment fund for each
project with contributions from the sponsoring agency and/or beneficiaries.
The income will be used to support 0 & M. It is also organizing training for
small private contractors and a seed management program as well as carrying
out a longer term strategic study on the question.
Quality: The main lesson is that emphasis on efficiency (rapid execution and
disbursement) has so far not been sufficiently linked to sub-project
effectiveness (specially in increased community participation, sustainability
of benefits and social impact). The impact assessments reveal that the PWP
involved communities less while the Community Development Program has involved
communities more.
Improved Targeting of Programs on the Poorest of the Poor: Although quite
effective in reaching the poor, the SFD has had mixed outcomes in reaching the
poorest of the poor, largely because of the lack of institutional capacity in
the public, private and NGO sectors at the local level in the poorest
Governorates. In response the SFD has launched a wide range of capacity
building programs. This will be a continued area of concentration in the
third project.
Need for Regular Impact Assessments: A final lesson from the ICR has been the
need to carry out impact assessment of a selection of projects in addition to
regular monitoring.    SFD has now created an Impact Assessment and Studies
unit which has been charged with doing this on a regular basis.
8.      Poverty Category: The beneficiaries of the SFD are poorer than the
average and the project is part of the program of targeted interventions
(PTI).
-3-



9.      Environmental Aspects:    The project is rated category B as the SFD
finances water and sewage sub-projects. It would have no significant
environmental risks. SFD has supported many projects designed to improve the
environment such as solid waste management and canal coverings.
10.     Program Objective Categories: Poverty Reduction
ll.Contact Point:                 The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager: David Steel (MNSHD)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 9, 1998.
- 4 -



ANNEX
The project components have been reviewed in light of the environmental
requirements of Egypt and the provisions of the Bank's Operational Directives
and the project has been placed in environmental Category B.
The only project input which might have an environmental impact would be
the financing of water and sewage sub-projects, however, these would not have
significant environmental risks. The Social Fund for Development (SFD) has
taken a number of important initiatives to incorporate environmental issues in
its decision-making process, and has on its staff environmental experts who
follow a defined set of procedures on evaluating sub-projects. In addition,
the SFD has supported many projects designed to improve the environment
through solid waste management and canal coverings.
Amount tentative and subject to change.



