Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3230-EGT
Project Agreement
(Third Social Fund for Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 9, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3230-EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1999, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Social Fund for Development (SFD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Arab Republic of Egypt (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty six 
million and nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR36,900,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that SFD agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and SFD, the proceeds of the credit provided for 
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SFD on terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SFD, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
Page  2
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meaning:
(a)
"Operations Manual” means SFD’s Manual, agreed with the Association, for 
the carrying out of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association;
(b)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the action plan, agreed with the 
Association, for the mitigation of potential adverse environmental impact caused by 
the carrying out of Sub-projects, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association; and
(c)
“Environmental and Development Unit” means the unit within the SFD, in 
charge of monitoring and supervising the implementation of the Environmental 
Management Plan.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of SFD
Section 2.01. (a) SFD declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with 
sound financial and environmental standards and practices, with qualified and 
experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes and Statement of Policy.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SFD shall otherwise agree, SFD shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SFD shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of Article IX of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
SFD shall (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and SFD a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with SFD on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. SFD shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SFD shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SFD shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
SFD shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SFD of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Article III
Page  3
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) SFD shall establish and thereafter at all times maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
SFD shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements referred to in 
Paragraph (a) above for such year as 
so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, SFD shall carry out a time-bound action plan, acceptable to the 
Association, for strengthening the financial management system referred to in 
Paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable SFD, not later than May 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly a 
Project Management Report (the Project Management Report), acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, SFD shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination,
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SFD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SFD of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SFD:
Social Fund for Development
Hussain Hegazy St.
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Fax:
20-2-355-0628
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SFD or by SFD 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Managing Director, or by such other person or persons as said Managing 
Director shall designate in writing, and SFD shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several copies, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Khalid Ikram 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ H. El-Gammal
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
SFD shall: (a) maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Association, for the 
overall coordination and supervision of Project implementation; (b) employ 
consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, to assist in the carrying out of the Project; (c) ensure that Sub-grants 
under the Project shall be made in accordance with the requirements and other details 
set forth in the Operations Manual; and (d) review with the Association, at such 
intervals as the Association or SFD shall request, the Operations Manual, and, based 
on such reviews, update the same as may be agreed between the Association and SFD.
2.
SFD shall conduct operations in accordance with the Environmental Management 
Plan, including: (i) the development of an environmental screening process applicable 
to all components of Sub-projects to identify potential impacts and undertake 
mitigating measures; (ii) the preparation and implementation of mitigating and 
monitoring plans, in full consultation with the beneficiaries as appropriate to 
determine the effectiveness and timeliness of these interventions; (iii) the 
undertaking of capacity building and training activities aimed at improving 
environmental awareness among Project staff, implementing organizations’ staff and 
beneficiaries; and (iv) the maintaining of an Environmental Development Unit with 
technical staff to screen, review and monitor all the environmental aspects of 
Sub-projects.
3.
SFD shall: (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and of each Sub-project, and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; (b) prepare under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association (i) by March 31 of 
each year, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) and (b) above, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period of twelve (12) months 
preceding the date of such report; and (ii) on or about June 30, 2001, a mid-term 
report, integrating the data and other information contained in the reports prepared 
pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Project during the period preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the period 
following such date; and (c) review with the Association each such report and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of such report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Page  6
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided for below, works and goods, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and computer goods may be procured from the United Nations Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Organization (IAPSO), in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to the first three (3) contracts for works and for goods and, 
thereafter, all contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, and all contracts for goods estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  7
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality Based Selection
Services under the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 per 
contract or more, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under the Project which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first three (3) contracts for services the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
