                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 34626

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    (IDA-31090 IDA-31091 PPFI-Q0350 TF-21293 TF-29742)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

                                         FOR A

                             PILOT RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT




                                      MARCH 7, 2006




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective March 7, 2006)

                                Currency Unit = Manats (AZM)
                                   1.00 AZM = US$ 0.00022
                                    US$ 1.00 = 4.62 AZM

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1   December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
ANAMA    Azerbaijan Demining Agency
APRP     Azerbaijan Pilot Reconstruction Project
ARRA     Azerbaijan Agency for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Areas
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
EU       European Union
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced Person
IDP-EDS  Internally Displaced Persons Economic Development Support Project
ISDB     Islamic Development Bank
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PHRD     Japan Government Policy and Human Resources Development Grant
PIU      Project Implementing Unit
PLI      Partner Lending Institution
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SC       Supplemental Credit
SFDI     Social Fund for Development of IDPs
TA       Technical Assistance
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNHCR    United Nations High Commission for Refugees




                              Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                            Country Director     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
                             Sector Manager      Sumter Lee Travers
                          Task Team Leader:      Ellen Hamilton

                                         AZERBAIJAN
                                 Pilot Reconstruction Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      32

Project ID: P035770                                                  Project Name: Pilot Reconstruction
Team Leader: Ellen Hamilton                                          TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 9, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pilot Reconstruction                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-31090; IDA-31091;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q0350; TF-21293;
                                                                                                     TF-29742
   Country/Department: AZERBAIJAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (36%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (32%); Central government
                            administration (14%); General education sector (10%); Other social services (8%)
                  Theme: Other social development (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S); Personal and property rights (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/07/1997                                     Effective: 11/05/1998                02/10/1999
     Appraisal: 04/08/1998                                         MTR: 12/01/1999                  03/12/2001
      Approval: 07/02/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN/AZERBAIJAN AGENCY FOR
                                           REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF AREAS (ARRA) /
                                           AZERBAIJAN SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT OF IDPS (SFDI)
                      Other Partners:      UNDP, UNHCR, EU

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Ishrat Husain
Sector Director:                Peter D. Thomson                               Hossein Razavi
Team Leader at ICR:             Ellen Hamilton                                 Peter Pollak
ICR Primary Author:             Alexander Danilenko; Elliott
                                Hurwitz; Felix A. Jakob


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Introduction

The military conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia over Upper Garabagh lasted from 1992 to 1994. It
resulted in losses of more than 30,000 lives and the displacement of over 1 million people. Of the
approximately 8 million people living in Azerbaijan, about 575,000 were considered to be `Internally
Displaced Persons' (IDPs). During the conflict, the territories adjoining the cease-fire line (the so-called
"liberated territories") suffered the greatest damage, losing nearly all infrastructure and most housing. The
cease fire line disrupted not only traditional transport corridors, but also the power grid. Schools and
hospitals were damaged or destroyed, as were gas and water networks. Land mines further complicated
reconstruction and rehabilitation.

After the ceasefire, it was important to rapidly and efficiently rebuild the main infrastructure, restore
power, rehabilitate the transport network and rebuild social infrastructure, such as schools and hospitals.
To address the reconstruction needs in the ten districts (raions) most severely affected by the war, the Bank,
the Azerbaijan Government and other international donors (UNDP, UNHCR and EU) developed in
1997-1998, with the help of a USD 1.3 million Japan Government Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) Grant a USD 120 million Priority Program for the Resettlement and
Reconstruction of the Liberated Territories. It subsequently led to the preparation of the 'Azerbaijan Pilot
Reconstruction Project - APRP (USD 54.2 million) which was to finance the first phase of the Priority
Program and in which the Bank participated with a USD 20.0 million (SDR 14.9 million) IDA Credit
approved on July 2, 1998 (Cr. 3109-AZ) . Expected and actual financing for the APRP is shown in Table
1 below.

                               Table 1: APRP Funding Sources and Amounts

          Source                     Planned Program                           Implemented Program
                                   Total           Total in %                 Total              Total in %
       Government                   9.4                 17                      9.6                   11
           IDA                     20.0                 37                     18.7                   22
          UNDP                      3.2                  6                     14.2                   17
         UNHCR                     12.1                 22                      7.2                   9
            EU                      9.5                 18                     24.8                   30
          Other                     0                    0                      9.4                   11
           Total                   54.2                 100                    83.7                  100

All Bank and other donor-financed activities included in the APRP were coordinated by the `Azerbaijan
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency (ARRA)', a Government agency which was created in 1996 for
this purpose.    Since each donor participating in APRP was solely and exclusively responsible for
supervising the implementation of the components it had agreed to finance, this ICR focuses only on those
activities that were financed by the Bank under Cr. 3109-AZ (as well as those under the 'Supplemental
Credit', see below).

While implementing the APRP, the Government realized that it was important to also improve the living
conditions of many IDPs who came from the still occupied parts of the country to which they could not
return. In 1999 the Bank agreed therefore to provide a USD 10.0 million (SDR 7.4 million) Supplemental
Credit (henceforth referred to as "SC") to the APRP to help create a `Social Fund for the Development of
IDPs (SFDI) to finance micro-projects with social and economic objectives and offer IDPs a basis for new
economic opportunities through access to micro-credits.



                                                     - 2 -

In addition to the activities developed under APRP and SFDI, support to IDPs was also provided by the
Islamic Development Bank (ISDB), the Asian Development Bank (ADB), bilateral donors, and various
NGOs.


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

As stated in the SAR, the purpose of the APRP was to implement the first phase of the Priority Program
for the Resettlement and Reconstruction of the Liberated Territories. The development objectives of the
APRP were to: (a) facilitate the repatriation of people who had become `internally displaced' (IDPs) as a
result of the military conflict over Upper Garabagh; and (b) raise their standard of living through:

·   the development of an effective approach to the voluntary resettlement and rehabilitation of IDPs;
·   the establishment and strengthening of agencies in Azerbaijan involved in the voluntary resettlement of
    IDPs, demining, and reconstruction of areas affected by the conflict over Upper Garabagh; and
·   assistance in raising and coordinating support from international donors and NGOs.

As mentioned above, Bank support to IDPs consisted of two operations: the Azerbaijan Pilot
Reconstruction Project (APRP), approved on July 2, 1998, and the Supplemental Credit (SC), approved
one year later, on June 8, 1999. While they were connected, they were implemented by separate Project
Implementation Units (PIUs). Table 2 summarizes the major characteristics and differences between
APRP and the SC.

                             Table 2--Summary Description of APRP and SC
                                     (World Bank financed activities only)

                  APRP (1998-2005)                                          SC (1999-2005)
 · Medium scale infrastructure                           · Community-driven sub-projects:
 · Rehabilitation of power lines and water supply          Rehabilitation of living conditions of IDPs
    systems                                                (roofs, water and wastewater systems, creation
 · rehabilitation of irrigation systems                    of small community centers), construction of
 · Rehabilitation and reconstruction of schools and        small schools in areas with high concentration
    hospitals damaged or destroyed during the              of IDPs throughout of the country
    military conflict                                    · Operated across entire country
 · Distribution of pregnant cows to returning IDPs       · Disbursed about US$2 million for
    to improve incomes                                      micro-credits to IDPs
 · Operated only in districts adjoining the              · PIU was the Social Fund for the Development
    cease-fire line                                         of IDPs (SFDI)
 · Financed the start-up of operations of the
    Azerbaijan Demining Agency (ANAMA)
 · PIU was the Azerbaijan Agency for
    Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Areas
    (ARRA)

A major purpose of the APRP was to develop a pilot program to give Azerbaijan authorities the means,
tools and resources for reconstruction and for improving the living conditions of IDPs and helping them to



                                                    - 3 -

voluntarily return to their homes from tent camps and other temporary shelters where they lived in poor
conditions. APRP was to support the voluntary return of about 20,000 IDPs (3,600 households) and
restore the economic base for the approximately 365,000 people who had remained in the three districts of
Fizuli, Agdam and Terter, which had suffered extensive damage during the hostilities. The APRP was
designed to create sustainable living conditions for the population of these three districts and provide basic
needs including water, sanitation, health care and education, means for sustainable economic development,
creating and rehabilitating infrastructure, communication and energy supply lines, and provide financing
for small scale income generation activities. The project also supported the creation of the Demining
Agency and the IDP Relocation Agency. The original project development objectives continued to be
relevant throughout project implementation.

The need for two PIUs was determined by the two levels of support provided: (i) macro-level rehabilitation
of infrastructure and social services by ARRA and (ii) micro-level support to IDP communities for small
investments and availability of micro-credit for individuals by SFDI. ARRA operated exclusively in
districts located adjoining the cease-fire line, while SFDI worked across the country wherever IDPs were
concentrated, in order to help implement community priorities and provide relief for the most needy. The
two PIUs established the same transparent rules of procurement, new standards for construction and
cooperation with the local officials, and their staff met regularly to facilitate coordination.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Project objectives were not changed, although the growing sense of hopelessness during the late 1990s
among IDPs across the country resulted in an expansion of project activities by inclusion of the SC. The
SC focused on community based development actions and micro-credit access to improve the living
standards of IDPs regardless of location. Although the SC targeted IDPs, it did not discriminate against
poor people living side-by-side with the primary beneficiaries.

3.3 Original Components:

The original APRP (including UNDP, UNHCR and EU financed activities) included the following
components (with amounts of proposed IDA funding shown in bold):

1.       Relocation Support (USD 1.8 million): The component was to finance a program to provide cash
         support to returning IDPs;

2.       Reconstruction and repair of housing (USD 14.0 million): The component was to finance the
         reconstruction or repair of about 3,500 houses destroyed or damaged during the war;

3.       Income Generation (USD 10.9 million) consisting of three sub-components:

          (a)  Agriculture (USD 9.4 million - of which IDA USD 6.0 million): The sub-component was to
               finance the provision of agricultural inputs, the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure, and
               the provision of agricultural extension services, as well as technical assistance specifically
               needed for the implementation of the sub-component

          (b)  Micro-credits and small grants (USD 1.1 million - of which IDA 0.4 million): The
               sub-component was to finance micro-credits and small grants to assist returning IDPs in
               opening small businesses; and




                                                      - 4 -

         (c)   Public works, Environmental mitigation (USD 0.4 million - of which IDA 0.4 million): The
               sub-component was to finance labor-intensive public works projects in small towns and
               villages.

4.      Health and Education (USD 5.1 million) consisting of two sub-components:

        (a)    Health (USD 0.9 million ­ of which IDA 0.9 million): The sub-component was to finance
               repair and rehabilitation of health care facilities, provision of essential drugs, medical
               supplies and equipment, and costs of training, capacity building, and monitoring and
               evaluation; and

        (b)    Education (USD 4.2 million ­ of which IDA 1.9 million); The sub-component was to
               finance structural repair and rehabilitation of educational facilities, supply of learning
               materials, and costs of training capacity building, and monitoring and evaluation.

5.      Infrastructure and Energy (USD 14.5 million) consisting of two sub-components:

        (a)    Infrastructure (USD 2.4 million ­ of which IDA 0.4 million): The sub-component was to
               finance repair and rehabilitation of water supply systems, transport and telecommunication
               infrastructure, as well as the costs of capacity building and monitoring and evaluation; and

        (b)    Energy (USD 12.1 million ­ of which IDA 7.2 million): The sub-component was to finance
               the repair and rehabilitation of power transmission lines, transformer stations and other
               equipment; and

6.      Institutional Support (USD 5.3 million ­ of which IDA 2.8 million): The component was to
        finance operations of ARRA, the creation of the Demining Agency, and the creation of and IDP
        Relocation Agency.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components of APRP were not changed during implementation, but were expanded with the inclusion
of the SC, which financed:

1.      Micro-Projects (USD 7.0 million ­ of which IDA USD 7.0 million) The component was to
        finance micro-projects with social and economic objectives in IDP communities in all districts of
        Azerbaijan.

2.      Micro-Credits (USD 2.1 million ­ of which IDA USD 2.1 million). The component was to
        finance the provision of micro-credits through intermediary Partner Lending Institutions (PLIs) to
        IDP owned micro-enterprises and to individual borrowers.

3.      Operational Support (USD 1.6 million - of which IDA USD 0.9 million). The component was to
        finance the operating costs of SFDI, as well as necessary technical assistance and consulting
        services.

By the mid-term review in Spring 2001, the original APRP IDA-financed work program had been largely
completed, however overestimation of investment costs and savings from competitive and transparent
bidding procedures meant that actual costs were about half of the estimated costs. At that time it was
decided to lift the geographic limitation and to include an additional seven war-affected districts (Aghstafa,
Gazakh, Gedabek, Goranboy, Khanlar, Nakhchivan, and Tovuz), all of which were included in the original
Priority Program for the Resettlement and Reconstruction of the Liberated Territories. Funds were
reallocated, in accordance with OP/BP 13.25 Use of Project Cost Savings, in March 2002.




                                                       - 5 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The ICR rates the Quality at Entry for APRP and SC as a whole as marginally satisfactory. The Quality
at Entry of APRP was assessed by QAG and found satisfactory; however this did not apply to the SC,
which was not assessed at its inception.

The ICR rating is based on the following:

Consistency with Bank Strategy: APRP and SC fulfilled this to a substantial degree.                The project
objectives were consistent with the Bank Country Assistance (CAS) programs for Azerbaijan of 1996 and
1999 and highly relevant in the country's post-conflict context. As summarized in the SAR, the objectives
of the Bank's assistance strategy were to (a) support changes in the existing policy and institutional
framework that would encourage sustainable growth led by an efficient and equitable private sector; (b)
support efforts to enhance the competitiveness of critical economic sectors; (c) alleviate poverty; and (d)
resettle and raise the living standards of IDPs.

Government Ownership and Stakeholder Involvement: APRP and SC fulfilled this to a substantial degree.
The reconstruction objectives of APRP were fully supported by the Government, the authorities of the
beneficiary districts, and representatives of IDP communities. The Government established both PIUs,
prepared initial investment plans, and worked effectively with the Bank at all stages of APRP preparation
and implementation. APRP/SC also enjoyed the support of the international donor community which
believed improving IDP living conditions to be an important factor for political stability.

Project Design: APRP and SC fulfilled this factor to a modest degree for three main reasons:

·   Although the formal development objective for the APRP was well conceived and appropriate for an
    emergency-type project, the original APRP program was too broad for a single project as it included
    implementation of (1) infrastructure investment programs at the macro level; and (2) means of income
    generation, and community development actions more typical of a social fund at the micro-level. The
    government and the Bank soon recognized the difficulties associated with this dual level program and
    resolved many aspects of the project's complexity by developing the SC, which implemented the
    community-driven micro-project implementation and expanded microfinancing.

·   The APRP's design was also intended to further a broader range of policy and sectoral objectives than
    would be expected given the stated development objective and the nature of the operation. These
    objectives included privatization of housing and land, development of rural micro-finance institutions,
    reform of health and education, improvement in power distribution management and cost recovery for
    electricity from IDPs. These sectoral objectives were poorly understood and weakly supported by
    Government counterparts and other donor representatives who saw APRP primarily as an emergency
    reconstruction operation intended to address immediate humanitarian, social and economic
    redevelopment needs. In practical terms, the ability of ARRA, which had been created to implement
    physical reconstruction, to change electricity tariff structures, to introduce user fees for social services,
    or to further land reform or private sector involvement in agriculture was modest.                   During
    implementation, most of the broader sectoral objectives were appropriately dropped from the project
    but picked up in sectoral lending operations and the broader policy dialogue.

·   Finally, by design APRP was to finance a common reconstruction program by multiple donors.
    Despite strong commitments by the Bank, UNDP, UNHCR and EU to the APRP, difficulties
    subsequently arose as each partner had its own funding sources, funding timetables, and institutional
    priorities and constituencies. For example, when UNHCR unexpectedly discontinued reconstruction of



                                                     - 6 -

    housing, it took the Government about a year to reallocate the necessary funding, which resulted in
    delays in building about 1,200 houses in the conflict-affected regions.

Project Administrative Structure: APRP and SC fulfilled this to a substantial degree. The administrative
structure of the project was appropriate and the two implementing agencies, ARRA and SFDI, proved to be
fully capable of handling project implementation. An innovative feature worth noting is that SFDI's
Supervisory Board consisted of not only Government representatives, but also representatives of the donors
active in Azerbaijan.

Readiness for Implementation: APRP and SC fulfilled this requirement to a modest degree. APRP was
ready for implementation when it was approved by the Board since it was a part of the broader Priority
Program for the Resettlement and Reconstruction of the Liberated Territories that had been prepared by
the Government and the donor community. However, the SC was prepared quickly in order to meet
IDA-11 processing deadlines and was not fully ready at the time of Board approval. This resulted in long
delays during early stages of implementation, which caused the project to have an overall unsatisfactory
rating for six months in 2002.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Project outcome was satisfactory overall, with most project objectives achieved, and nearly every outcome
indicator met or exceeded (see Outcome Indicators in Table 3, below). About 33,000 IDPs had returned
home by end 2005. Using the experience of APRP and funding from the State Oil Fund the Government
has closed five "tent camps" and will close the remaining seven no later than end 2007. The APRP project
areas are now self-sufficient in grains, milk and other agricultural produce. Farm incomes have increased.
Electricity coverage has increased from 18% to 100% of households and businesses. Hospitals and schools
have been reopened and water and other infrastructure services restored.           The Project supported
establishment of the State Demining Agency (ANAMA) by assisting with the construction of a permanent
base for the agency and procuring the original vehicles. ANAMA has continued to develop with support
from the Government and other donors.

SFDI micro-projects have benefited about 160,000 people (the majority of whom live in dormitories,
administrative or educational buildings or other collective centers) in nearly 200 IDP communities.
Through financial intermediaries (Partner Lending Institutions) SFDI has provided resources for nearly
7,000 loans to small/informal and somewhat larger formal enterprises. About 45% of all micro-loans have
been extended to women. Impact assessments carried out in Baku by the Norwegian Refugee Council and
Oxfam demonstrated that micro-credits had a significant positive impact on IDP micro-enterprises.
Enterprises in Baku showed a job increase of 46%, while profits and family consumption grew by 100%.
Results in the interior of the country were similar with revenue growing by 35%, expenditures on food by
30% and expenditures for health and education by 35%.

Other achievements included:

l The APRP created a transparent mechanism for government tenders for public works for both large
    and small scale projects. The investment programs are announced and interested parties are asked for
    expression of interest and participating in tenders by tender committees established at ARRA and
    SFDI.     Such procedures saved a substantial amount of money that was then invested in other
    subprojects. The national authorities recognized the importance of the transparent nature of investment



                                                    - 7 -

     tenders and converted it into Law, so that it applied to procurement in other areas as well.

l The SC activities established sound criteria for the selection of socially important investment projects
     on community level, including mechanisms for beneficiary participation at all stages of micro-project
     selection, design and implementation. Both PIUs conducted special workshops on project effects and
     potential difficulties during construction and reconstruction works for the population of the region at
     early stages of the Project. Special meetings of parents of children for schools that are planned for
     reconstruction are now regularly conducted prior to construction.

l The project substantially raised facility design and construction standards and improved incentives to
     apply them in the future. Both PIUs provided training seminars for the companies that expressed
     interest in tenders. Six workshops were conducted for construction companies since 1999.

l The APRP created many jobs for returning IDPs remaining in temporary housing. Nearly all ARRA
     investments and all SFDI micro-projects created employment opportunities for IDPs as contractors
     hired local residents for the implementation of their projects. Up to 90 percent of the workforce was
     comprised of IDPs.

l Rehabilitated schools and hospitals became working places for returning teachers and doctors, creating
     additional incentives for return of highly-qualified refugees.

l SFDI micro-credits allowed several thousand IDPs and poor people to open private bakeries, car
     body-shops, agro-processing works, and other small businesses.

It should be noted that the Government and country and sector management were highly pleased with the
outcome of the APRP, and a follow-on project similar to the SC was prepared on Government request and
approved by the Board in January, 2005--the Internally Displaced Persons Economic Development
Support Project (IDP-EDS) Project.

                                Table 3: Achievement of Outcome Indicators

                                              1999                 2000                2001         2004*

 Project Outcome Indicators             Actual    Target     Actual   Target    Actual      Target Actual
 Percentage of IDPs returned              16         16        69       66        100        75    120***
 Percentage of the population living      40         40        25       25         10        10       5
 below poverty line in the project area
 Average annual household income of      788        925       1,920    2,000     2,996      3,000   4,170
 returned IDPs (USD)
 National GDP per capita (for            582                   670                725               1,048
 reference only)
 Project outputs
 Number of houses completed by           1,000     1,550      2,100    2,100     3,469      2,500   4,714
 April of each year**
 Percentage of the damaged                40         40        90       80        100        100     100
 infrastructure repaired
 Number of schools required and           12         12        23       35         44        36      101
 equipped
 Number of health facilities repaired      8         3         19       32         27        32      53
 and equipped
 Electricity coverage (percentage of      18         20        48       90         80        100     100
 population and businesses connected
 to the power grid)



                                                       - 8 -

*   Project targets were set for completion in 2001. The 2004 results show the actual status by 02.01.2005.
** UNHCR financed the reconstruction of about 3,600 houses or about 75% of a total of about 4,800 houses destroyed during
    the hostilities, the remainder having been rebuilt with resources of the State Oil Fund.
*** APRP expected the return of 20,000 IDPs to the Fizuli, Terter and Agdam districts by the end of 2001, whereas the
    Government Repatriation Department reports the return of about 24,000 IDPs. A total of 36,000 IDPs returned to the ten
    districts directly affected by the conflict.



4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    APRP:

The description below only refers to the APRP components funded by IDA through Cr.3109-AZ:

1.       Income Generation: The component included three sub-components:

         (a) Agriculture (expected IDA amount USD 6.0 million, actual USD 5.6 million): APRP financed
               the rehabilitation of about 530 artesian wells, as well as pumps, irrigation canals and
               reservoirs in project areas. In addition, it financed the purchase and distribution to returning
               IDPs of about 2,567 pregnant cows (out of an original target of 2,800 cows) for milk
               production, as well as veterinary services, training and monitoring follow up support. It is
               estimated that there are now about 8,000 head of cattle. This program has been highly
               successful and has had a substantial impact on beneficiary households who sell the milk and
               meat. Efforts to increase private sector involvement in agricultural support services through
               establishment of agricultural machinery leasing companies met with considerably less success,
               although ultimately were picked up in the context of a sector operation.

         (b) Micro credits and grants (expected IDA amount USD 0.4 million, actual USD 0.0 million).
               Micro-credit activities were incorporated into the SC. In addition, UNDP developed and
               financed a micro-credit program administered through ARRA.

         (c) Public work (expected IDA amount USD 0.4 million, actual USD 0.0 million). Public works
               were incorporated into contracting for the community investments under the SC.

2.       Health and Education: The component included two sub-components:

         (a) Health: (expected IDA amount USD 0.9 million, actual USD 1.3 million): The sub-component
               financed the structural repair, rehabilitation and re-equipment of 40 health care facilities,
               including hospitals with a total capacity of over 500 beds, in six districts.

         (b)     Education (expected IDA amount USD 1.9 million, actual USD 4.0 million): The
               sub-component financed structural repair and rehabilitation of 39 educational facilities and
               provision of school furniture and equipment to about sixty schools, and was complemented by
               a CHF 750,000 Grant from the Swiss Government (TF 021293) of which 65% was actually
               disbursed as a result of costs being less than projected.

3.       Infrastructure and Energy: The component included two sub-components

         (a) Infrastructure (expected IDA allocation USD 0.4 million, actual USD 0.1 million): The
               sub-component financed the repair and rehabilitation of water supply systems (wells, pumping
               stations, and distribution networks) sufficient to meet demand for drinking water by providing
               150-200 liters per capita per day.

         (b) Energy (expected IDA amount USD 7.2 million, actual USD 6.9 million): The sub-component
               financed the repair and rehabilitation of power transmission lines, transformer stations and



                                                              - 9 -

           other equipment. It was instrumental to restoring power to most of the population in the project
           areas. In a recent survey, about three-quarters of households in the six districts with energy
           investments stated that electricity supply had improved during the past 5-6 years. The same
           survey showed that, on average, about half of households were supplied with electricity for
           twelve or more hours per day.

4.     Reconstruction and Repair of Housing (expected IDA amount USD 0.0 million, actual USD 0.3
       million): This component enabled 33,100 people to return to their homes in eleven districts by
       financing the reconstruction and/or repair of about 4,714 houses. Resources were provided by the
       State Budget, State Oil Fund, UNCHR, UNDP, EU, NGOs, and private sector contributors. Prior
       to credit effectiveness, a small amount of PPF funds were used for the reconstruction of about 75
       houses in Nakhichevan.

5.     Creation and Support to Azerbaijan Demining Agency (ANAMA) (expected IDA amount USD 0.6
       million, actual USD 0.5 million). The component financed start up costs for the Agency (demining
       and other operational equipment, vehicles and construction of office and storage facilities. With
       strong support from donors and the Government, the Agency continues to develop capacity. As of
       2005, the Agency had cleared and surveyed about 20 square kilometers of land along power-lines,
       irrigation canals, water pipes, roads and in areas used for housing and agriculture. At USD 1 per
       square meter demined, costs are well below the USD 2-3 per square meter cost typical in most
       other countries.

6.     Operating Costs of ARRA (expected IDA amount USD 1.4 million, actual USD 0.1 million):
       ARRA operations were funded by the Government. The component financed the annual audits.


4.2.2 SC

The SC consisted of two components:

1.     Micro-Projects (expected IDA amount USD 7.0 million, actual USD 6.9 million): The component
       which was implemented by SFDI financed the implementation of 192 micro-projects benefiting
       about 170,000 people throughout the entire country. The detailed distribution of projects by
       category of works is shown below.

2.     Micro-Credits (expected IDA allocation USD 2.1 million, actual USD 2.0 million)        Micro-credits
       were provided, under the oversight of SFDI, through the intermediary of Partner Lending
       Institutions (PLIs) including seven local credit unions and five micro-credit institutions supported
       by international NGOs. All together, the PLIs made a total of about 12,350 loans of between USD
       275 and USD 1,500 to small businesses and individuals.

       Additionally, SC financing included an expected USD 0.9 million (actual USD 1.2 million) for
       SFDI operating costs, technical assistance and institutional support).




                                                  - 10 -

                            Table 4: Distribution of micro-projects by category

  Category of Projects                                                         Number        in % total
  Rehabilitation of dormitories and other temporary housing facilities               48           25
  Rehabilitation of well, water supply and irrigation systems                        32           17
  Repair of sewerage systems                                                          6             3
  Extension of power distribution networks                                           21           11
  Extension of natural gas distribution networks                                      4             2
  Repair and improvement of local roads                                              29           15
  Rehabilitation and equipment of schools                                            19           10
  Rehabilitation and equipment of social facilities                                   5             3
  Other                                                                              28           15
                                                                      Total        192           100



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Neither APRP nor SC included any formal economic analysis of sub-projects because (a) APRP projects
were essentially of an emergency nature and (b) SFDI micro-projects were demand-driven and therefore not
identifiable on an ex-ante basis.

Although this cannot be easily quantified, it is important to note that APRP and SC created a large number
of jobs for IDPs, especially in the construction industry where it was found that, in some cases, up to 90
percent of the workforce was comprised of IDPs. It should also be mentioned that re-establishing access to
electric power and rehabilitating irrigation systems provided the basic conditions necessary to resume
agricultural and other economic activities in the APRP project areas.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

For the same reasons as above, the project did not include any Financial Rate of Return Calculation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project was substantial:

·   APRP and SC contributed to establishing transparent mechanisms for public procurement of works
    and goods. Open public tenders have become a standard practice in Azerbaijan, at least partly as a
    result of training and materials provided by the project. Recognizing the importance of transparency in
    tender procedures the Government has made it an important element of national procurement
    legislation.

·   Implementation agencies, ARRA and, to a greater extent, SFDI, have been selected to implement other
    state programs to resettle IDPs and refugees from temporary to permanent housing (financed by the
    State Oil Fund), as well as to implement projects for other international donors. Both agencies remain
    functional, although ARRA is operating on a somewhat reduced scale.

·   SFDI, in particular, established systematic public participation as a key element in the decision
    making, design and tendering process for social and other investments in local communities and by
    involving the population in implementation supervision and monitoring.




                                                       - 11 -

·   APRP supported the development of the Demining and Repatriation Agencies. Both agencies are fully
    operational and fully funded.

Finally, should there be a peace settlement with Armenia, the experience of both ARRA and SFDI would
provide an excellent basis for reconstruction and resettlement of any areas returned to Azerbaijani control.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

None.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

As discussed in 3.1, the Government quickly recognized difficulties associated with a two-level
implementation program and resolved many aspects of this complexity with the development and
implementation of the SC.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Both implementing agencies acted quickly to address difficulties as they emerged in order to move project
implementation forward.

- Strong supervision of contractors by ARRA meant that contracts were completed on time and without
    cost overruns, with the exception of a couple of contracts where the contractors did not perform.

- The community co-financing threshold (10 percent for investments and 20 percent for equipment) that
    was set by the SC proved to be too high for IDP communities that have unstable incomes. This at first
    resulted in slow implementation of micro-projects under the SC (only six for all of 2001). SFDI
    recognized the problem and worked with the Bank to reduce the thresholds to an average of three
    percent that allowed accelerated implementation of the SC (28 sub-projects in 2002 and 98 in 2003).

5.4 Costs and financing:

The estimated costs for the original APRP components were substantially above actual costs. About USD
10 million was saved due to the use of competitive bidding procedures. Over-estimation of rehabilitation
costs resulted in part from the lack of reliable information on the extent of damages and construction costs.
After the MTR, the savings were used to expand APRP's geographic scope from three districts to ten.

The APRP was signed in August 1998 for the period until the end of 2001. The SC was signed in August
2000 and the closing date extended to March 31, 2003 to allow time for implementation of SFDI activities.
The project was subsequently extended four more times and closed on September 30, 2005. The delays
were primarily for two reasons:

l The SC was not fully prepared when approved, and so when preparation was finally completed (during
    implementation), it was reasonable to extend the closing to allow implementation to proceed, as it
    successfully did.




                                                     - 12 -

l The Government proposed using the savings from the APRP for similar investments in additional
    districts, which required additional time for identification, preparation and implementation.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of APRP and SC is rated likelydue to the following factors:

·   The follow-on IDP-EDS Project, which continues the SC micro-credit and micro-project activities, was
    prepared at the request of the Government and approved by the Board in January, 2005, and will help
    to sustain the benefits of the SC.

·   The APRP and SC were successful in engaging vulnerable layers of the Azerbaijan society in
    self-generated economic activities through SC micro-credits and APRP generated employment
    opportunities. The microcredit activities helped more than 4,500 IDP to start their own business and
    become less dependent on state subsidies. Construction companies have hired more than 3,000 IDPs
    on a permanent basis. Rehabilitated schools and hospitals provide permanent jobs for about 500 IDPs
    who returned home.

·   The APRP with other donor programs helped to create food self-sufficiency for the people in the area.
    Conflict-affected regions have not requested food assistance since 2000 and currently are net exporters
    of grains and agricultural produce to other areas of the country.

·   New competitive and transparent tender rules and careful supervision of sub-projects substantially
    improved construction quality. These practices are now standard for social projects and helped in the
    development of many private construction companies that continue to employ IDPs.

·   ARRA and (to a greater extent) SFDI have proved themselves so successful in carrying out
    Bank-financed project operations that both have been charged with implementing state programs to
    resettle IDPs to permanent housing financed by the State Oil Fund. The quality performance of SFDI
    was recognized by its selection as the PIU for the new Bank IDP-EDS Project.

·   ANAMA remains fully functional and is financed by the Government and donors.

·   All investments are transferred to the appropriate ministry or local government authorities for operation
    and maintenance (O&M) upon completion. The micro-project selection criteria of SFDI prioritize
    proposals by beneficiary communities who are able to organize and sustain O&M.

Although outside the scope of a project such as this one, it should be noted that the Government continues
to pay for utilities provided to IDPs.      Although there is a social rationale for these subsidies, the
continuation of subsidies in this form indefinitely represents a considerable financial obligation and may
encourage households to use these services wastefully. The broader question of whom to subsidize and
how to subsidize them remains part of the Bank's broader policy dialogue with the Government.




                                                     - 13 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As discussed above, O&M of infrastructure and equipment financed by APRP and SC is ensured by the
relevant sector ministries, utilities, or beneficiary communities. Both implementing agencies will also
continue to operate.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance at lending is rated satisfactory. Quality at Entry has been described in detail in Section
3.5 and was assessed as marginally satisfactory. Project preparation began in Fall 1996 and took 22
months to be completed. Preparation was supported by a Bank PPF of USD 2.0 million and a Japanese
Government PHRD Grant of USD 1.3 million (TF 029676/029472). The PHRD Grant financed the
preparation of the Priority Program for the Resettlement and Reconstruction of the Liberated Territories
which formed the basis for APRP.

7.2 Supervision:

Project supervision was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group. The ICR rates project supervision
by the Bank project team as moderately satisfactory. The project team established good working relations
with both ARRA and SFDI as well as with counterparts in the Government. High turnover among task
managers (five in total) created some difficulties for the Government as each new task manager had to
become familiar with the project.

The complexity of project design required the Bank team to intensify supervision efforts and to simplify the
project by focusing on emergency reconstruction and community development, rather than on sectoral
reforms that required substantially higher financial assistance and TA effort than expected.           The
supervision team and the Government jointly decided to reduce sector-specific TA that was not suitable for
an emergency reconstruction project in order to focus on the primary project objectives.

Supervision missions were adequately staffed and carried out at reasonable intervals.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government' performance in project preparation is assessed as satisfactory. The Government was
actively involved in the identification and preparation of both APRP and SC and provided necessary
support efficiently and diligently.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance of the Government in the implementation of APRP and SC is assessed as satisfactory.



                                                     - 14 -

The Government actively participated in project implementation and supported actions to enhance
transparency and to improve community involvement. It maintained strong ownership of APRP and was
open for discussions if misunderstandings occurred. It helped implementing agencies in resolving all
regulatory obstacles and prepared the follow up IDP-EDS project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of both ARRA and SFDI was satisfactory in all aspects of project implementation,
including procurement management, technical supervision and financial management. They performed
particularly well for organizations working in newly independent countries. They successfully implemented
principles of openness and transparency in their work and maintained them through the entire period of
implementation. Both ARRA and SFDI were effective in selection, supervision and monitoring of all
sub-projects.

The Government and the Bank recognized the quality of SFDI's management performance by selecting it as
the implementing agency for the follow up IDP Economic Development Support Project (Cr. 4043-AZ).
Both ARRA and SFDI have also been selected to manage other programs financed by the Government, and
other donors.

Reporting by both agencies has been of a persistently good quality. Both agencies undertook at their own
initiative to hire consultants to carry out a detailed evaluation of project results and impacts.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Government performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Emergency reconstruction operations should not be combined with broad sectoral policy reform
efforts. APRP was a good example of a well conceived post-conflict reconstruction operation. However,
APRP's experience supports the guidance provided in OP/BP 8.50 on emergency operations by showing
how difficult it is to implement urgently needed rehabilitation investments while simultaneously pursuing
broader policy reforms in a number of sectors. Sectoral objectives require support from more focused
interventions.    Addressing these kinds of objectives in sectors ranging from education and health to
electricity and agriculture was outside the competency of ARRA, which had been established to implement
the narrower reconstruction program.

Operations that involve multiple donors must be carefully designed to allow for differences agendas,
financing arrangements and funding timetables among donors. Coordinating donor response is of
particular importance in an emergency-type operation such as the APRP and SC as it should foster
synergies among donor programs as well as avoiding unnecessary duplication of effort. At the same time,
it is important to keep in mind that the different procedures and resource constraints faced by different
donors, which may result in different paces of implementation. Projects with mutually interdependent
components financed from different sources face additional risks as difficulties experienced by one donor
with its program may have a ripple effect on implementation of components implemented by other donors.

Too narrowly limiting project beneficiaries may create additional social and political risks. In the
course of project implementation, both the Bank and the Government supported actions to extend project
benefits in recognition of the fact that although many IDPs are poor, not all poor people are IDPs. The
APRP initially focused only on improving living conditions for IDPs in three districts, but at the mid-term



                                                       - 15 -

review the geographic focus was extended to include new beneficiaries by adding an additional seven
districts. The pool of potential beneficiaries increased dramatically with the approval of the SC, which
made micro-projects and micro-credits were available to IDPs nationwide. During the course of project
implementation, micro-project guidelines were changed so as to allow a greater share of non-IDP local
populations to benefit.     This allowed micro-projects to support cooperation among local and IDP
populations instead of possibly fostering resentment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Additional Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Dear Ms. Ellen Hamilton,

In response to the letter dated January 17, 2006, received from Ms. Saida Bagirli, Acting Country
Manager, World Bank, please find below our comments for your Implementation Completion Report for
the joint UNDP and Government of Azerbaijan "Azerbaijan Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
Programme".

In 1996 jointly with the World Bank, the UNDP took the lead in supporting the creation and strengthening
capacity of Azerbaijan Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency while at the same time testing the
operational implementation of Reconstruction and Rehabilitation efforts. This was Phase I of the
Azerbaijan Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Programme, followed in May 1997 by Phase II. Phase I
budget was USD 500,000, during which the UNDP invested USD 200,000 for institutional capacity
building of ARRA and USD 300,000 in the actual rebuilding of physical infrastructures. Phase II budget,
started in June 1997, was USD 2,762,350 which includes three distinct parts: (a) USD$335,000 to sustain
and strengthen ARRA; (b) USD 1,163,414 to rehabilitate schools, hospitals and public facilities, and ( c) a
World Vision International contract to promote self employment of IDPs through USD 660,000 in
Micro-Credit Projects. Government contributed residual budget amounts.

It must be noted that a series of evaluations of the Project, in full and in part, were conducted by a number
of independent missions. The fact that this project was reviewed thoroughly six times over two years is in
itself remarkable. The fact that each of these missions had praise for efficiency and effectiveness of the
program delivery mechanisms can not be underestimated. We take this as a signal of confidence in the
worthiness of the project objectives and trust in the national authorities administering it. There is a
consensus that continued interest and investment by the international community enabled and facilitated
such results within the project.




                                                     - 16 -

Shamil Rzayev
Programme Adviser
UNDP Azerbaijan
3, UN 50th Anniversary Str.
Baku, Azerbaijan, AZ 1001
Tel.: (+99412) 4989-888 (ext.147)
Fax: (+99412) 4983-235 / 4922-491
www.un-az.org/undp


10. Additional Information




                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


      Project Development Objective          Key performance Indicators - projections    Actuals
                                                            from PAD

Repatriation of about 20,000 internally      l Average family incomes of returning
displaced persons in a way that maximizes      IDPs:
their chances to recover economically.             by 1999 - USD 788                     USD 925
                                                   by 2000 - USD 1,920                   USD 2,000
                                                   by 2001 - USD 2,996                   USD 3,000
                                                   by 2004 - N/A                         USD 4,170

                                             l Percentage of people living below the
                                               poverty line in the project area falls:
                                                  by 1999 - 40 %                          40 %
                                                  by 2000 - 25 %                          25 %
                                                  by 2001 - 10 %                          10 %
                                                  by 2004 - N/A                            5 %

                                             l IDP families return to the project area:
                                                  by 1999 - 16 %                          16 %
                                                  by 2000 - 66 %                          69 %
                                                  by 2001 - 100 %                         75 %
                                                  by 2004 - N/A                           120 %

              Project Outputs
Voluntary return of 20,000 IDPs to their     l Number of houses completed:
previous homes.
                                                  by 1999 - 1000                          1,550
                                                  by 2000 - 2100                          2,100
                                                  by 2001 - 3469                          2,500
                                                  by 2004 - N/A                           4,714

Reconstruction and rehabilitation of         l Damaged infrastructure repaired:
infrastructure,                                   by 1999 - 40%                            40%
energy supply, health and education services.
                                                  by 2000 - 40%                            50%
                                                  by 2001 - 20%                            10%
                                                  by 2004 - N/A                            0%

                                             l Schools repaired and properly equipped:
                                                  by 1999 - 12                             12
                                                  by 2000 - 23                             35
                                                  by 2001- 44                              36
                                                  by 2004 - N/A                            101



                                                - 18 -

                                     l Health facilities repaired and properly
                                       equipped:
                                          by 1999 - 8                              3
                                          by 2000 - 19                            32
                                          by 2001 - 27                            32
                                          by 2004 - N/A                           53

                                     l Public buildings and private homes have
                                       access to energy supply:
                                          by 1999 - 18%                           20
                                          by 2000 - 48%                           90
                                          by 2001 - 80%                          100
                                          by 2004 - N/A                          100

Implementation of income generating  l Loan repayment rate:
activities
                                           by 2000 - 50%                         98%
                                           by 2001 - 95%                         99%

                                     l Business plan training sessions:
                                          by 2000 - 20                           2,000
                                          by 2001 - 50                           2,000
                                          by 2004 - N/A                          2,200

                                     l Increase in family farm incomes:
                                          by 1999 - 10%                          10 %
                                          by 2000 - 25%                          25 %
                                          by 2001 - 50%                          50 %
                                          by 2004 - N/A                          39 %

                                     l Land titles issued:
                                          by 1999 - 1,000                        2,000
                                          by 2000 - 2,100                        2,100
                                          by 2001 - 3,469                        3,100
                                          by 2004 - N/A                          4,714

                                     l Individual/group/private farms number
                                       increases:
                                          by 1999 - 100                          200
                                          by 2000 - 210                          500
                                          by 2001 - 350                          550
                                          by 2004 - N/A                          100%




                                        - 19 -

Establishment of an institutional framework    l Relocation agency established on August  100%
that will be able to handle the repatriation of  31, 1998.
all remaining IDPs and refugees                l Demining agency has been established     100%
                                                 by July 1, 2998
                                               l ARRA staffing plan agreed with IDA in    100%
                                                 October 1997.

Ability and capacity to mobilize the           l ARRA has appointed expatriate advisor    100%
international donor community and                for the coordination of international
coordinate the donor resources necessary to      donor support.
repatriate remaining IDPs and refugees




                                                  - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




               Annex 2A: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements for APRP
                                        (in USD million equivalent)

        Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method          Total Cost (including
                                            ICB     NCB       Other     NBF      Contingencies)
1.     Works
1.1    Reconstruction and                    7.5      1.3        -      11.3          20.1
Rehabilitation Works                        (7.5)    (1.3)       -                    (8.8)
1.2    Minor Civil Works                       -       -       0.2        -           0.2
                                                               (0.2)                  (0.2)
1.3    Housing and Relocation                                           15.7          15.7
2.     Goods
2.1    Equipment and Machinery               3.1               0.2      1.2           4.5
                                            (3.1)              (0.2)                  (3.3)
2.2    Agricultural Inputs                   2.5                                      2.5
                                            (2.5)                                     (2.5)
2.3    School and Hospital Supplies          1.7                                      1.7
                                            (1.7)                                     (1.7)
2.4    Office Equipment and Supplies                                    0.1           0.1
3.     Services
3.1    Studies, Project Engineering and                                 0.2           0.2
Supervision
3.2    Technical Assistance                                    0.9                    0.9
                                                               (0.9)                  (0.9)
3.3    Training                                                0.9                    0.0
                                                               (0.9)                  (0.9)
4.     Income Generation Activities
4.1    Microcredit and Grant Facility                          0.4      0.7           1.1
                                                               (0.4)                  (0.4)
4.2    Public Works and Environment                   0.1      0.4                    0.4
                                                     (0.1)     (0.4)                  (0.4)
5.     Miscellaneous
5.1    PPF                                                     0.4                    0.4
                                                               (0.4)                  (0.4)
5.2    Operating/Recurrent Costs                                        2.6           2.6
5.3    Support to Demining Agency                              0.5      2.4           3.0
                                                               (0.5)                  (0.5)
                                  Total                                               54.2
                  Total Bank-financed                                                (20.0)
NBF = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



                                                    - 21 -

                   Summary of Actual Procurement Arrangements for APRP
                                      (in USD million equivalent)

        Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method            Total Cost
                                               ICB         NCB          Other    NBF    (including
                                                                                       Contingencies)
1.Works
  1.1 Reconstruction and                       12.4         1.8            -     26.7      40.8
       Rehabilitation Works                   (12.4)        (1.8)          -              (14.1)
  1.2 Minor Civil Works                          -           -            0.1     -         0.1
                                                                         (0.1)             (0.1)
  1.3 Housing and Relocation                                               -     18.0      18.1
                                                                         (0.1)             (0.1)
                                                                                               1


2.Goods
  2.1 Equipment and Machinery                   1.9          -            0.1    5.3        7.3
                                               (1.9)                     (0.1)             (2.0)
  2.2 Agricultural Inputs                       1.0          -             -     0.3        1.3
                                               (1.0)                                       (1.0)
  2.3 School and Hospital Supplies              0.4          -            0.1    1.5        1.9
                                               (0.4)                     (0.1)             (0.5)
  2.4 Office Equipment and Supplies                                              0.1        0.1
3.Services
  3.1 Studies, Project Engineering and                                    0.1    0.0        0.1
       Supervision                                                       (0.1)             (0.1)
  3.2 Technical Assistance
  3.3 Training                                                            0.1               0.1
                                                                         (0.1)             (0.1)
4.Income Generation Activities
  4.1 Microcredit and Grant Facility                                       -     3.7        3.7
                                                                         (0.0)    -        (0.0)
  4.2 Public Works and Environment                                               0.1        0.1
5.Miscellaneous
  5.1 PPF                                                                 0.9               0.9
                                                                         (0.9)             (0.9)
  5.2 Operating/Recurrent Costs                                           0.1    1.2        1.3
                                                                         (0.1)             (0.1)
  5.3 Support to Demining Agency                                          0.5    7.4        7.9
                                                                         (0.5)             (0.5)
                                 Total                                                     83.7
                 Total Bank-financed                                                      (19.5)

Note: The figures shown in brackets constitute an amount funded by the Bank.
      Figures may not add up due to rounding




                                                    - 22 -

                                 Project Components for APRP
                                    (in USD million equivalent)

     Component                         Total Cost                     Bank Financing
                            Projected Cost    Actual Cost      Projected Cost  Actual Cost
Relocation                        1.8              1.8               -              -
Shelter                          14.0             18.1               -             0.1
Income Generation:
    Agriculture                   9.4             11.7              6.0            5.1
    Micro credit and              1.1              3.7              0.4            0.0
    grants
    Public works, env.            0.4              0.1              0.4             -
    mitig.
Health and education
    Health                        0.9              2.0              0.9            1.3
    Education                     4.2             10.1              1.9            4.0
Infrastructure and
energy
    Infrastructure                2.4              8.0              0.4            0.1
    Energy                       12.1             17.7              7.2            6.9
Institutional support
    ARRA                          1.6              0.3              1.4            0.1
    Agricultural                  0.4              0.4              0.4            0.4
    support
    Demining agency               2.9              7.9              0.6            0.5
    PPF                           0.4              0.9              0.4            0.9
Recurrent costs                   2.6              1.2               -              -
Total financing                  54.2             83.7             20.0           19.5
required
Figures may not add up due to rounding




                                              - 23 -

             Annex 2B: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangementsfor SC
                                      (in USD million equivalent)

                                                          Procurement Method      Total Cost
                                                                                  (including
                                                                                 Contingencies)
Expenditure Category                                ICB         NCB   Other  NFB
1. Works
   1.1 Minor Infrastructure Projects                            3.5    3.5            7.0
                                                                (3.5) (3.5)          (7.0)
2. Goods
   2.1 Office Equipment                                                0.2            0.2
                                                                      (0.1)          (0.1)
   2.2 Vehicles                                                        0.1            0.1
                                                                      (0.1)          (0.1)
3. Services
   3.1 Technical Assistance                                            0.4            0.4
                                                                      (0.4)          (0.4)
4. Income Generation Activities
   4.1 Micro-Enterprise Credits                                        2.1            2.1
                                                                      (2.1)          (2.1)
5. Miscellaneous
   5.1 Operating Costs                                                 0.4   0.5      0.9
                                                                      (0.3)          (0.3)
                                    Total                       3.5    6.7   0.5     10.7
                    Total Bank financed                         (3.5) (6.5)         (10.0)
 NBF = Not Bank-financed
 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the SC




                                                    - 24 -

                    Summary of Actual Procurement Arrangements for SC
                                      (in USD million equivalent)


                                                         Procurement Method           Total Cost
                                                                                      (including
                                                                                    Contingencies)
Expenditure Category                               ICB        NCB    Other   NFB
1. Works
   1.1 Minor Infrastructure Projects                           0.7    6.5                 7.2
                                                              (0.7)  (6.3)               (6.9)
2. Goods
   2.1 Office Equipment                                               0.1                 0.1
                                                                     (0.1)               (0.1)
   2.2 Vehicles                                                       0.1                 0.1
                                                                     (0.1)               (0.1)
3. Services
   3.1 Technical Assistance                                           0.5                 0.5
                                                                     (0.5)               (0.5)
4. Income Generation Activities
   4.1 Micro-Enterprise Credits                                       2.0                 2.0
                                                                     (2.0)               (2.0)
5. Miscellaneous
   5.1 Operating Costs                                                0.6     0.6         1.3
                                                                     (0.6)              (0.56)
                                    Total                      0.7    9.7     0.6        11.0
                    Total Bank financed                       (0.7)  (9.5)              (10.1)
 NBF = Not Bank-financed
 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the SC
 Figures may not add up due to rounding


                                     Project Components for SC
                                      (in USD million equivalent)

            Component                             Total Cost                 Bank-Financing
                                        Projected Cost    Actual Cost Projected Cost Actual Cost
  Micro-Infrastructure Projects               7.0             7.2          7.0           6.9
  Micro-Enterprise Credits                    2.1             2.0          2.1           2.0
  Support to SFDI                             0.3             0.2          0.2           0.1
  Technical Assistance                        0.4             0.5          0.4           0.5
  Operating Costs                             0.9             1.1          0.3           0.6
Total Financing Required                     10.7             11.0         10.0          10.1




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Neither APRP nor SC included any formal economic analysis of sub-projects because (a) APRP projects
were essentially of an emergency nature and (b) SFDI micro-projects were demand-driven and therefore not
identifiable on an ex-ante basis.

Although this cannot be easily quantified, it is important to note that APRP/SFDI created a large number of
jobs for IDPs, especially in the construction industry where it was found that, in some cases, up to 90
percent of the workforce was comprised of IDPs. It should also be mentioned that re-establishing access to
electric power and rehabilitating irrigation systems provided the basic conditions necessary to resume
agricultural and other economic activities in the APRP project areas.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/15/1997                2    LEAD ADVISER (1); SR.
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1)
              12/20/1997                4    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD
                                             ADVISER (1); CONSULTANTS
                                             (2)
              02/14/1998                7    LEAD ADVISER (1); SR.
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1)
                                             AGRIC. & RURAL SPEC. (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

 Supervision

              02/03/1999                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); UNHCR
                                             REP (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              12/12/1999                5    TEAM LEADER (1); AG.             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); OP. OFFICER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2)
              11/25/2000                3    URBAN MAN. SPECIALIST            S               S
                                             (1); SR. SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              04/26/2002                2    CONSULTANT (1); TASK             S               S
                                             TEAM LEADER (1)
              10/02/2002                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              07/09/2003                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              11/23/2003                6    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             INCOME GENERATION (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1)
              07/09/2004                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             MICRO-CREDIT (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE SPCLST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS (1)

 ICR
              02/18/2005                1     CONSULTANT



                                              - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                     527,279.32
  Supervision                                                    913,490.38
  ICR                                                             27,500.00
  Total                                                        1,468,269.70




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. ARRA Quarterly Report - 2nd Quarter 2004

2. Project Management Report - 1st Quarterly Report

3. SFDI Annual Report for 2003

4. ARRA Activity Report - 1997-2003

5. Project Management Report - 3rd Quarter 2003

6. Justification Reports No. 17

7. Justification and Implementation Report No. 16 - January 1999 - March 2003

8. Project Management Report - 4th Quarter 2002

9. Justification and Implementation Report No. 15 for 4th Quarter of 2002 (January 1999 to December

    2002)

10. Project Management Report for 2nd Quarter of 2002

11. 13th Report on Rehabilitation Works (ARRA) - January 1999 to June 2002

12. Progress Report No. 12 - 1st Quarter 2002 (January 1999 to March 2002) and Project Management

    Review

13. Livestock Advisory and Monitoring Services Report (April to November 2001)- SIGMA Research

    Center

14. Implementation Report No. 10 (January 1999 to September 2001)

15. Justification Report No. 8 (January 1999 to March 2001 (sites in Nakhchivan AR, Fizuli, Agdam and

    Terter Regions

16. ARRA Implementation Report No. 6 - Rehab of Agdam, Fizuli and Terter Regions (January 1999 to

    September 2000)

17. General Information on Activities conducted under ARRA to March 2000




                                                 - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

             Contribution of the Government of Azerbaijan in ICR - ARRA




                                         - 32 -

1.      Comments on the World Bank's Project Implementation Completion Report

Table 1 shows ARPR Funding Sources and Amounts.

Table 1: ARPR Funding Sources and Amounts

                                                                                In mln. US$
              Funding sources                  Considered under the             Actually executed
                                                      Program
                                                        Total               Total in %TotalTotal in
                                                                                        %
 Government of Azerbaijan *                              9,4                        179,611,3
The World Bank (IDA)                                     20                        3718,722,3
UNDP                                                     3,2                        614,217
UNHCR                                                   12,1                        227,28,6
European Union                                           9,5                       1824,829,6
Other institutions                                         -                        -9,411,2
Total:                                                  54,2                       10083,7100

* The figures show the amount considered for allocation directly by the Government of
Azerbaijan.

2. Contribution of the Government in Execution ARPR

The Government of Azerbaijan participated in execution of ARPR as a Borrower directly and in
an active form. As it is seen from Table 1, the fund allocated by the Government directly amounts
to US$ 9,6 mln., that makes 11,3% of the Project overall investment. Furthermore, it should be
mentioned that the funds allocated by the Government of Azerbaijan had a specific role in
successful implementation (expenses for maintenance of the reconstructed infrastructure facilities)
of the Project indirectly.

Considering that the main goal of the general strategy of the Program is to provide the internally
displaced people (IDP) with safe and stable life-important facilities, the Government of Azerbaijan
executed the following below-listed activities program:
- establishment of necessary institutional systems for safety of people in the project areas;
- the Government's temporal payment of the communal services (electricity and water) expenses
of the people relocated in the project areas;
- establishment of a special structure for demining of the areas and execution of other activities in
this regard, in accordance with the World Bank requirements;
- execution of encouraging activities for repatriation of IDPs;
- coordination of the activities of other donors for efficient utilization of the funds involved in the
Program;
- establishment of a special repatriation structure attached to the State Refugee Committee;



                                                - 33 -

- payment of salaries and facilities maintenance expenses to teachers, physicians and technical staff
members in educational and health facilities reconstructed in the project area, and their provision
with books, drugs and other necessary things, etc.;
- lending maximum assistance to those people engaged in the agricultural activities in their private
farms;
- land reform, distribution of lands to the people for agricultural purposes, assistance in their
registration and obtain of the required certificates;
- establishment of the regional offices of the State Land Committee, and the veterinary services
for assistance to the farms engaged in cattle-breeding and poultry.

Thus, as a result of the attempts of the Government of Azerbaijan, the shares of the separate
structures of the European Union and UNDP in the Program were increased accordingly by 2,5
and 4,5 times. Also, the other donors such as IFRC, MCJ, ADRA, IRC, Relief International and
the Islamic Development Bank with its share of US$ 9,4 mln. were involved in the Project.

The data on contribution of the Government of Azerbaijan in APRP were described in the table
on "Monitoring Indicators of the World Bank Project 3109/AZ" enclosed in the letter.

Finally, it should be mentioned that 36000 people returned back to their native lands. 200000
people inhabiting in the project areas benefit from the facilities reconstructed and rehabilitated in
these areas.




                                                 - 34 -

Contribution of the Government of Azerbaijan in ICR - SFDI




                          - 35 -

Saida Bagirli
Acting Country Manager
of the World Bank

Subject: "About participation of the Borrower in preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report on the Rehabilitation of Areas Project"
Dear Saida!

       The draft Implementation Completion Report on the Areas Rehabilitation Project prepared
by the World Bank at the Social Fund for Development of IDPs (SFDI) was reviewed and Deputy
Prime Minister of Azerbaijan Republic, Chairman of SFDI's Board of Directors Mr. A. Hasanov
was provided with the necessary information.
       Deputy Prime Minister Mr. A. Hasanov instructed SFDI to submit to the World Bank
appropriate information prepared about the appraisal of results of the completed Project
(instructions #17/17/527-27/14 dated 20.02.2006 of Deputy Prime Minister Mr. A. Hasanov).
       We are submitting to you information prepared about the results of the Project
implemented under Credit Agreement #3109-1AZ for taking into account in the section of the
Implementation Completion Report where reflecting Government's appraisal.

       Attachment: Appraisal of the results of the project implemented under Credit Agreement
#3109-1AZ

Best Regards.

                                                                 Director

                                       F. Topchibashev




                                             - 36 -

Appraisal of the Project implemented under Credit Agreement #3109-1AZ

1.   Objectives and results of the project
The main objective of the Credit #3109-1AZ (hereinafter Supplementary Credit) is raising
the living standards of IDPs by carrying out various types of community microprojects and
providing microcredit funding.
The Supplementary Credit includes two main components (microprojects and microcredits)
for achievement of these goals.
It should be mentioned that implementation of the Supplementary Credit was delayed (at the
beginning).
The followings were the main reasons of the delay:

A) There was hastiness in preparation of the Supplementary Credit and provisions of the
Credit Agreement did not allow SFDI to start the Project on time. In this connection some
amendments concerned with the microproject geography, SFDI's operational expenses,
opening of the separate Special Account were inserted into the Credit Agreement. Therefore,
SFDI started its real works only in May of 2001.
B) Operation Manual of SFDI was prepared in accordance with the traditional Social
Investment Funds' practices. But, as the beneficiaries mainly were temporary IDPs
communities there was necessity for decrease of the community investment share (10% for
investments and 20% for equipment) envisaged for implementation of the microprojects.
Decrease of the community share was agreed with the World of Bank and approved by the
Board of Directors in October of 2001.
C) Implementation of the microprojects and microcredit activities and mobilization of the
IDPs communities following the procedures of the Supplementary Credit and Operation
Manual took more time that was planned (for some microprojects representatives of SFDI held
5-6 met with the community representatives).

In this connection quality of Project in the initial stage could be considered unsatisfactory.
Later on reasons of the delay were eliminated by common efforts of the World Bank,
Government and SFDI staff and the Project run in normal rhythm.

About 220 microprojects of various types were appraised within the Project and 192 of them
meeting the requirements of SFDI's Operational Manual were carried out. The microprojects
covered 26 regions and 4 central cities of the country. About 170 thousand persons which 93%
are IDPs benefited from the implemented microprojects.
SFDI implemented the microcredit program through the competitive-based selected partner
lending institutions (five international Microcredit Institutions and seven local Credit Unions).
Microcredit institutions delivered microcredits in amount 2 million USD (12 357 credits were
provided to the physical persons and juridical entities).
The procedures used by SFDI in implementation of microprojects within the Supplementary
Credit were used in the programs of other donors as well. 6 microprojects (five schools were
constructed and one water supply system was rehabilitated) were carried out through the grant
funds provided by the well-to-do persons of Turkey to the Embassy of Azerbaijan Republic in
Turkey and later on transferred to the account of SFDI. Though the grant funds transferred to



                                              - 37 -

the account of SFDI by Republic of Greece a modern ambulance station was constructed.

Taking into account the above mentioned outcomes and achievements level within the
Supplementary Credit project could be considered high satisfactory.

2. Administrative structure of the Project

SFDI staff gained considerable experience in the project implemented within Supplementary
Credit.
There were the innovation characters of the Supplementary Credit project as well. So, the
Board of Directors of the SFDI as a supreme governing agency was created and this Board of
Directors comprises of the representatives of Azerbaijan Government, local non-government
and private organizations and international donor organizations including UNDP, UNHCR and
USAID authorities. The SFDI staff reports regularly to the Board of Directors on their activity
covering all aspects. This ensures high transparency of the SFDI activity.
Achievements gained in institutional building have been significant and appreciated high
satisfactory.

3. Working indicators of the World Bank and the Borrower.

3.1 The World Bank
The World Bank representatives (including Baku office staff) regularly supervised the Project,
demonstrated sufficient reaction to obstacles arisen during the project implementation and took
an active part in overcoming those obstacles.
In this regard the whole activity of the World Bank is considered high satisfactory.

3.2 The Borrower
The Government's active participation in the project implementation has been considered high
satisfactory.

3.2 The SFDI
Considering the experience and practice of SFDI gained during the project the Government of
Azerbaijan has charged the SFDI as an executing agency, with the functions realizing the
number of state programs on construction of new settlements for IDPs.
Taking into consideration the successful completion of the project within the Supplementary
Credit the SFDI has been appointed an executing agency on new # 4034 AZ Credit Agreement
(Project of Economic Development Support to IDPs) signed between the World Bank and the
Republic of Azerbaijan.

4. Lessons learned

Overall building of the programs financed by the various donors.

During implementation of the project under Supplementary Credit the SFDI was engaged in
carrying out the state programs financed by other donors as well, creating the special



                                             - 38 -

implementation units. During implementation of these programs the SFDI agreed various
procedures and rules applied by these donors, though the Operational Manual of SFDI
describes only the procedures under WB financing projects.
At the same time it should be noted that notwithstanding the involving of individual
implementation unit for realization of the new project financed by each potential donor the
responsibilities of the key staff under the WB project regarding the coordination matters are
increased.
In this respect new version of the SFDI's Operational Manual capable to consider the
expansion of the SFDI's activity and new donors' procedures has been prepared and approved
at the meeting of Board of Directors in October of 2005.




                                            - 39 -

- 40 -

