Report No. PIC5532
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Pilot Reconstruction Project (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Multisector
Project ID                       AZPA35770
Borrower                         Government of Azerbaijan
Implementing Agency              Azerbaijan Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Agency (ARRA)
69 Fizuli Street, Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact person: Ali A. Mamedov
Executive Director, ARRA,
Tel.: (99412) 95-78-97 (receptionist)
Fax: (99412) 95-78-97
Date initial PID prepared        April 23, 1997
Date this PID prepared           April 23, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         February, 1998
Projected Board Date             May, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Azerbaijan, with an area of 86,600 square kilometers, has a
population of 7.5 million and a per capita GDP of about US$ 490. It
is a country of mountain ranges and river valleys with the greater
Caucasus mountains in the north, the Lesser Caucasus mountains
stretching across the south-west and the Talysh mountains in a
subtropical zone in the south. The eastern coast of Azerbaijan is
boarded by the Caspian Sea. The Kura and Arak rivers are located in
the central part of the republic and have been equipped with large
reservoirs for irrigation. The Nakhechivan Autonomous Republic
(5,500 square kilometers and 295,000 inhabitants), an integral part
of the republic, is geographically separated from the Azerbaijan
main territory by Armenia. Azerbaijan is well-endowed with various
natural resources, including fertile land, substantial oil
reserves, especially in the Caspian Sea, a diversified industrial
structure and a well educated labor force. It is one of the oldest
oil producing regions in the world. Since its independence,
however, Azerbaijan has been going through a very difficult period.
In addition to the usual transition problems, the country had to
deal with an undeclared but costly war.
2.      Since 1988, when the conflict over the Nagorno-Karabakh
region started, major parts of Azerbaijan, including Nagorno-
Karabakh and "surrounding" areas, have been devastated by civil
strife and, as a result of the conflict, 20% of the Azebaijan's
territory has been occupied. It is estimated that thousands of
people have been killed, about 650,000 internally displaced people
(IDPs) and 200,000 refugees from Armenia have become scattered
around Azerbaijan. Many of these IDPs and refugees have temporarily



been accommodated in 65 towns and villages. A special State
Committee for Refugees has been set up to coordinate the efforts of
various national and international agencies providing humanitarian
assistance to the IDPs. The impact of the conflict on Azerbaijan
has been devastating, with the cessation of most economic
activities in the occupied territories, the cut-off of the
Nakhichevan portion of the country and the influx of refugees and IDPs.
3.      Under the auspices of the Organization on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), a cease fire was achieved in May 1994
and has been generally respected. Since then, while several "peace
talks" have been held, no agreement has been reached on a
comprehensive settlement of the conflict. As a result, only a small
portion of Azerbaijan's territory, in the Fizuli rayon, along the
front line in Agdam and Terter raions and along the border with
Armenia in Nakhchivan, liberated in late 1993, is currently
available for reconstruction and reintegration of IDPs. The
Government has selected these areas for the implementation of a
Pilot Reconstruction Program to prepare for the major
reconstruction program that will be implemented when a
comprehensive peace is achieved.
4.      In April 1996, the President of Azerbaijan requested the Bank
to assist in preparing a reconstruction program. Government has
initiated a number of steps to prepare for a reconstruction
program, including:
(a) a decree creating a State Commission for Reconstruction
chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister with full authority
reporting to the President, was signed in July 1996; the
decree also includes the establishment of an International
Advisory Group with representation of bilateral and
multilateral institutions as well as NGOs;
(b) the Government has endorsed the principle of partnership
among donors, NGOs and the Government in the implementation
of the program; meetings are regularly convened with NGOs on
reconstruction and relief activities;
(c) the Azerbaijan Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency
(ARRA) has been set up under the State Commission for
Reconstruction to coordinate and implement the reconstruction program.
5.      Following the July mission a PHRD grant of US$1.3 million was
approved to carry out damage assessments/feasibility studies,
strengthen ARRA's institutional capacity and implement selected
pilot projects. UNDP provided US$500,000 to set up ARRA and to
initiate some reconstruction activities. The European Union
recently decided to provide about ECU6 million to finance the
reconstruction of infrastructure and housing in the Fizuli raion.
6.      A social assessment was carried out in the second half of
1996 to determine the views of the Internally Displaced People
(IDPs) from Fizuli. The sample used for the survey was 500
households, of which 400 from Fizuli (both IDPs who have already
-2 -



returned to Fizuli and those who are still living outside Fizuli)
and 100 from areas other than Fizuli. The objective was to start a
process of public participation by which the stakeholders can be
involved in the preparation and implementation of the
reconstruction project. The social assessment was successfully completed.
7.      In January 1997, the Government convened a donors conference
in Baku in an effort to mobilize donors assistance for
reconstruction. Support to the program was confirmed by the Bank,
UNDP and the EU. The Government has, through its own resources and
through the mobilization of the international donor community,
begun to plan the process of reconstruction of the liberated area.
Road, rail and power supply which were out of service in many cases
have been partly restored, at least on a temporary basis. The
predominantly agricultural based activities could be revived if
essential irrigation infrastructure could be rehabilitated combined
with the provision of institutional support services such as credit
for agricultural inputs, land registration and farmer information
and advisory services. Rebuilding of houses and social facilities
will take much longer, but the rapid provision of building
materials and key equipment and supplies will assist these efforts.
Prospects for Reconstruction
8.      The eventual reconstruction of the areas currently under
occupation will be a major task. Although no comprehensive survey
has been undertaken, preliminary indications are that the level of
destruction may be high. This is true not only due to the fighting
and consequent damage to infrastructure, but to the time which has
elapsed since the initiation of the conflict and the forced
migration of IDPs. The experience of conflicts in other parts of
the world has highlighted the fact that conflict-induced
destruction often occurs as much through deterioration of
infrastructure because of lack of maintenance as through direct
impact of high explosives. The possibility that infrastructure may
have been looted or cannibalized for other purposes by occupying
forces reinforces the likelihood that reconstruction will be a
major task. The assumed wide-scale laying of land-mines in these
areas will also complicate the task of reconstruction and will
require appreciable investments in de-mining.
9.      Azerbaijan is doing what it can to rebuild and restore its
economy and deal with the problem of IDPs given its limited
financial and institutional capacity. A rapid infusion of donor
assistance is crucial to sustain and carry forward the efforts
which are underway especially the transition from assistance for
relief to reconstruction activities where they are possible. This
transition will be especially necessary to assist the IDPs where
they are and prepare their return as security conditions permit.
Objectives of the Pilot Reconstruction program
10.     The Government's long term objective is to assist the return
of all IDPs as the security situation changes and all the
territories currently occupied are freed up in some way. In the
- 3 -



medium term, the pilot reconstruction program will assist in the
reconstruction of the conflict-affected regions of Fizuli, Agdam,
Terter, Geranboy and Gazakh raions, as well as the Sadarak, Sharur,
Babek, Shahbuz, Julfa, Ordubad raions in Nakhchevan which are under
civilian administration. According to official statistics, 45,000
people are presently living in the Fizuli raion (30,000 before the
conflict) in 22 settlements and about 112,700 people in the other
10 raions (138,600 before the conflict) in 91 settlements.
11.     Within this context, the Government has set priority, in part
based on the results of social assessment, on the basic repair of
housing to allow the return of IDPs from refugee camps, the
reconstruction of damaged physical and social infrastructure, and
the revival of the local agriculture-based activity. The Government
medium term reconstruction program would include therefore : (a)
clearance of land mines; (b) basic repairs to the physical
infrastructure (power supply, drinking water supply, roads,
telephone, irrigation); (c) basic repairs to housing and social
infrastructure; (d) provision of credit for agricultural inputs and
assistance in the privatization of agricultural land; and (e)
income generating activities. It is expected that, once the program
is completed, about 9,000 people in Fizuli and 22,000 in the other
raions, will be able to return to permanent residence from the
refugee camps.
Bank response and strategy
12.     Following the July 1996 mission, the Bank/UNDP and the
Government agreed on the steps needed to undertake the
reconstruction starting with a pilot project in liberated areas and
expanding the program when the additional areas are liberated. The
proposed project would provide an essential input into the
Government reconstruction program, by assisting in high priority
reconstruction activities necessary to restore the basic conditions
for the revival of economic activities in the conflict-affected
areas. At the same time, it would provide capacity building in
project preparation, management and implementation.
13.     A number of programs are under implementation by UNHCR,
together with International Rescue Committee (IRC), ICRC, DHA and
WFP. UNHCR is assisting in the reconstruction of shelters. ICRC is
active in solving immediate drinking water supply, providing food
and seeds and is conducting a mine awareness program in the
villages near the front line. The UNDP is providing the
institutional support to ARRA and some financing for the
reconstruction of housing and social infrastructure in Fizuli. The
European Union has approved a reconstruction program under TACIS to
reconstruct the drinking water supply, the electricity supply for
the 22 settlements in the Fizuli raion, the irrigation system and
repair of the railway. The humanitarian arm of the EU, ECHO, will
undertake the rehabilitation of 600 individual houses (with GTZ)
and twelve rural schools in the Fizuli raion.
Project Description
-4-



14.     The proposed pilot reconstruction project would include the
following components:
(a) Repair of electric power supply in Fizuli, Agadam,
Terter, Geranboy, Gazakh and Nakhchivan: reconstruction of
35-kV, 10-kV and LV power lines and 35/10-kV and 10/0.4-kV substations;
(b) Repair/reconstruction of drinking water supply in Fizuli,
Agdam, Terter, Gazakh, Geranboy, Gazakh and Nakhchivan:
drilling and restoration of borewells, pipelines, water
reservoirs and pumping stations;
(c) Rehabilitation of irrigation structures and networks:
borewells, hydrostructures, irrigation canals reconstruction and repair;
(d) Housing and social infrastructure: basic repair of public
and private housing; repair of healthcare and school facilities;
(e) Agriculture and Income generation activities:
agricultural institutional services, agricultural inputs,
afforestation, etc.;
(f) Clearance of landmines: including the establishment of a
national landmine clearing capability;
(g) Institutional support to ARRA: program preparation and management.
Project Financing
16.     The total financing requirements for a first phase program (1
to 3 years) amount to US$23.1 million, of which UNDP is financing
3.1 million and the EU (TACIS and ECHO) has committed US$6.5
million. The Bank could consider a first phase of US$10.5 million
and the Government would contribute US$3.0 million. Other potential
donors that expressed interest include the Islamic Development Bank
and the US (for the humanitarian aspects). Ideally, the Bank
contribution should be able to be increased or decreased depending
upon firm donors interest, NGOs participation, the pace of
implementation and the outcome of the peace process.
17.     Funds are available from the EU, UNDP and NGOs for most of
the reconstruction activities in Fizuli although there are some
gaps as, for example, in mine clearing and afforestation. Little
funding has been identified for other areas such as, Agdam, Terter,
Garenboy, Gazakh and Nakhchevan, for which detailed damage
assessments are being prepared. It is expected that once about 50t
of this first phase program has been committed, a second phase of
the reconstruction program would be defined in partnership with the
Government and other donors and NGOs.
Project Implementation
18.     The responsibility for assessing the damage and carrying out
the proposed reconstruction program lies with the newly created
Azerbaijan Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency (ARRA) and
- 5 -



other government agencies and public enterprises, such as
Azerafteroy (roads); Azenerji (power supply); Azeri Water Supply
company, etc. For Fizuli, damage assessment and feasibility studies
for most of sectors have been completed. For Agdam, Terter,
Garenboy, Gazakh and Nakhichevan, except for the power facilities,
no comprehensive assessments of the damages in the various sectors
have been undertaken so far. To address this issue, local
consultants are currently being hired under the PHRD grant to carry
out detailed damage assessment, feasibility studies and prepare
bidding documents.
Sustainability
19.     The reconstruction of damaged infrastructure, the return of
displaced families in their homes, and the reconstruction of
damaged industrial and agricultural assets are priorities in the
Government agenda. In addition to the humanitarian aspects, the
return of IDPs to a normal economic is in itself a justification of
the project.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
20.     The World Bank has financed many war reconstruction programs
over the years which have been used in the design of the approach
in Azerbaijan, in particular:
(a) establishing a strong implementation capacity which can
take decisions quickly and with the authority of a country's
senior leaders; this is reflected in the setting-up of ARRA;
(b) ensuring that there is coordination and cooperation among
the donors, including local and foreign NGOs, to avoid
duplication and waste of resources, for which the donors
coordination mechanism was created;
(c) identifying in an environment of inadequate overall
resources what the priorities of the affected people are,
which the social assessment has done; and
(d) in the period before an overall peace settlement is put
in place, piloting reconstruction efforts as soon as the
security situation allows, which is what UNDP, EU and the
World Bank have done through their financing over the last
nine months and which the proposed Pilot Project is designed
to continue.
21.     The World Bank's experience with assisting governments with
demining is very recent and the Bank does not have the technical
expertise in-house to prepare and monitor demining programs. The
Bank's experience to date with demining in Bosnia and Croatia has
depended on specialized consultants, who have also been used to
prepare the Azerbaijan demining component thus far and used a
variety of implementation and procurement arrangements which will
also be tested in Azerbaijan.
-6-



Poverty Category
22.     Although the project does not contain a poverty alleviation
components it is aimed at improving the livelihood of IDPs and host
communities in the project areas.
Environmental Aspects
23.     The project would follow accepted Bank procedures, and would
normally be assigned the environmental rating B. Any subcomponent
which present an opportunity for environmental enhancement will be
designed accordingly, and all subcomponents will be monitored
during supervision to ensure that there is no degradation to the
environment.
Program Objective Categories
24.     The program objective categories would include poverty
alleviation and environmentally sustainable development.
Contact Point:           Salem Ouahes, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2430
Fax No.:   (202) 477-3285
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending September 5, 1997.
-7 -



Annex
Environmental Impact
1.      The Project does not have any major environmental issues
associated with its implementation. Rather, its implementation
would have positive impacts on the environment through the
clearance of landmines, provision of drinking water and electricity
and afforestation. It offers the opportunity of removing hazards
from landmines and improving the quality of life for the
populations living in the war-torn areas.
2.      The environmental issues associated specifically with the
Project are largely confined to the reconstruction works and the
resulting increased contractors activity in the project areas. Best
practice will be used for the construction works to minimize
adverse impact on the environment. Further, the project will
include the development of a modest environmental monitoring capacity.
- 8 -



