Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17955 AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FORA
PILOT RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
JUNE 2, 1998
Energy Sector Unit
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Aral Sea Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 1998)
Currency Unit   =  Manat
US$1   =  3890 Manat
US$1   =  1.35 SDR
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARRA       -      Azerbaijan Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency
CRDP      -      Committee for Refugees and Displaced Persons
IAG      -      International Advisory Group
IDP     -      Internally Displaced Person
EU      -      European Union
MOA       -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOE       -      Ministry of Education
MOH       -      Ministry of Health
PTA      -      Parent Teacher Association
PPF     -       Project Preparation Facility
SIC     -      State Irrigation Committee
SLC      -      State Land Committee
UNDP       -      Union Nations Development Program
UNHCR       -      United Nations High Commission for Refugees
WHO       -      World Health Organization
WUA       -      Water Users' Association
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Ishrat Husain
Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi
Task Team Leader:  Peter Pollak
Co-task Team Leader:  Jonathan Brown
This project was prepared jointly with UNHCR, UNDP and the IFC



Azerbaijan
Pilot Reconstruction Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Summary of Social Assessment
Annex 12.    Implementation Support Component
Annex 13.    Partnership
Map



Azerbaijan
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Aral Sea Unit
Date: June 2, 1998                                   Task Team Leader: Peter Pollak
Country Director: Ishrat Husain                       Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: AZ-PA-35770  Sector: Multi Sector        Program Objective Category: SS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan      [X] Credit       [  Guarantee      [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRrn): SDR 14.9 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed           []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                 9.4                                  9.4
Parallel Financing
UNDP                                                                    3.2              3.2
UNHCR                                               6.1                 6.0              12.1
EU                                                  4.1                 5.4              9.5
IDA                                                        4.9                15.1             20.0
Total       24.5                29.7              54.2
Borrower: Government of Azerbaijan
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Azerbaijan Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                 1999         2000        2001         2002
Annual      6.0          8.0          4.0        2.0
Cumulative      6.0         14.0         18.0       20.0
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: July 31, 1998 Expected closing date: December 31, 2001



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Government, with assistance from the World Bank, UNHCR and UNDP, developed a US$120 million
program for the Resettlement and Reconstruction of the Liberated Areas. The proposed project would finance
the first phase of this program. The development objectives of this project are (a) to facilitate the repatriation of
people that have been 'internally displaced' (IDPs) as a result of the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh and (b) to
raise their standard of living through:
* the development of an effective approach to the voluntary resettlement and rehabilitation of IDPs;
* the establishment and strengthening of agencies in Azerbaijan involved in the voluntary resettlement of
IDPs, demining and the reconstruction of areas affected by the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh; and
* assistance in raising and coordinating support from international donors and NGOs.
Key performance indicators are:
*  voluntary resettlement of the target population of about 20,000 IDPs (about 3,600 families);
* reconstruction or repair of the houses of returning families;
* family incomes of IDPs having reached the average national level within three years after their return;
* returning IDPs having access to basic health care facilities, education and electricity;
*  establishment of a demining agency;
*  establishment of a relocation agency, which would be responsible for the relocation of IDPs and their
support during a specified period after their return; and
*  an increase in support from donors in the areas identified in the 'Resettlement and Reconstruction
Program' over and above their levels of support in the past.
B: Strategic Context
i. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15948-AZ      Date of latest CAS discussion: September 19, 1996
The aim of the Bank's country assistance strategy for Azerbaijan is: (a) to support changes in the existing policy
and institutional framework that would encourage sustainable growth led by an efficient and equitable private
sector; (b) to support efforts to enhance the competitiveness of critical economic sectors; (c) to alleviate
poverty; and (d) to resettle and rehabilitate IDPs.
The proposed project supports three key objectives of the CAS: poverty reduction, improving the effectiveness
of the institutional framework for the voluntary resettlement of IDPs, and environmental mitigation. It would be
the Bank's first effort to assist the Government in establishing an appropriate policy and institutional framework
for the voluntary resettlement and rehabilitation of IDPs in partnership with other donors, specialized UN
agencies and NGOs, and to implement the first phase of a program for the repatriation of IDPs. The target
groups - IDPs living in deplorable conditions in temporary camps and those living in conflict-damaged areas -
are also among the poorest of Azerbaijan's population. Repatriation and economic reintegration of the IDPs
should drastically improve their standards of living and reduce the need for support from the Government (and
from international donors) to IDPs in temporary camps.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
The conflict over the Nagorno-Karabakh region during 1988-1994 resulted in the occupation of about 20% of
Azerbaijan's territory and created about 900,000 IDPs and refugees, equivalent to about 15% of Azerbaijan's
population. Most of the IDPs live in temporary shelters in camps located throughout the country. Their living
conditions remain deplorable, despite considerable efforts by the Government and the international community



to provide relief. As a result of this conflict, large areas of Azerbaijan have been devastated; and years of
occupation and neglect have led to considerable damage to physical and social infrastructure, the environment
and the economy in general.
The withdrawal of occupation forces from some of the occupied territory and a cease-fire in May 1994 make it
possible for some IDPs to return safely to their former homes. Surveys show that approximately 36,000 IDPs
could be resettled safely. However, the substantial damage to infrastructure and the bleak prospects of finding
employment discourage many IDPs from returning to their former homes even when it is safe. While the
'income' IDPs receive in camps - mostly in the form of allowances from the Government and gifts from various
donor organizations - are less than half the average per capita income of the rural population in Azerbaijan,
many are reluctant to give up the certainty of this support for a highly uncertain economic future.
To facilitate the repatriation of IDPs, the Government and donor agencies have carried out damage assessments
and a series of social assessments. These assessments provide valuable insights in the priorities of IDPs, their
views and expectations about their repatriation. They reflect the views of IDPs who have already returned home
as well as of IDPs still living in camps. Before the conflict most IDPs lived relatively prosperous lives. Most of
them were farmers or worked in agro-processing industries; they lived in relatively large private homes (on
average 150 square meters) and benefited from a wide range of free public services. It is therefore not surprising
that 94% of IDPs wish to return to their former homes. Their main worries are about their physical safety and
how they would survive after leaving the camp, more specifically where they would find housing while they
rebuild their former homes, where they would find employment and what assistance the Government would
provide. Since not all IDPs were farmers, some are looking for income opportunities outside of agriculture.
Finally, IDPs emphasize the need for a basic but comprehensive package of support in physical and social
infrastructure with a premium on water supply, electricity and education and health care. Based on the social
assessments, the Government, with assistance from UNHCR, UNDP and the World Bank, has developed a
program for the Resettlement and Reconstruction of the Liberated Areas.
As a pilot, this project finances the first phase of this program. The proposed project provides support for the
voluntary resettlement of about 20,000 IDPs and the economic rehabilitation of the population (about 365,000,
who never left the area and 5,000 IDPs, who have already returned) in three districts, Fizuli, Agdam and Terter.
This project builds on the assistance international donors have already provided for the reconstruction of these
districts. The aim is to ensure that returning IDPs receive the kind of support that allows them to catch up with
the improvements in the standards of living that have taken place in the recent past in Azerbaijan and to rebuild
their lives at their former homes. Many of the activities, particularly in the area of income generation, will be
new for Azerbaijan and serve as a valuable learning experience for the voluntary resettlement of the remaining
IDPs, which can only start after a comprehensive peace agreement has been reached.
The Government's strategy for the voluntary resettlement of IDPs and the reconstruction of the areas affected by
the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh is based on the following principles:
*  Resettlement of IDPs should be voluntary and carried out safely, equitably and in a sustainable manner;
* Support for returning IDPs should be designed to meet their needs for one year after their return giving
priority to shelter, food assistance, and income support;
*  The Government aims to rehabilitate the key physical and social infrastructure to minimum standards,
taking into account least cost solutions, affordability and regional and local differences. Unit costs
should be minimized so that the maximum number of IDPs can benefit from the project;
*  Due to the impoverishment of the IDPs and the extent of damage to infrastructure, those living in or
returning to damaged areas will need financial support until they can restore their incomes. This means
that cost recovery can only be implemented in the near term in areas where there is direct financial
benefit and that in other areas, especially the provision of public services, the introduction of tariffs will
be gradual and progressive;
*  Voluntary resettlement and reconstruction efforts would utilize a variety of implementation channels
including public agencies, the private sector and NGOs, with the full participation of individuals,
families, communities and local authorities.
2



* In order to coordinate support from international donors and ensure that resources are used efficiently,
Government has set up an International Advisory Group (LAG), composed of multi-lateral, bi-lateral
and international NGOs. The Government has asked the European Union, the UNDP, and the World
Bank to take the lead in the operations of the IAG with regard to reconstruction-related activities; the
Government has asked UNHCR to launch a special appeal for funding of the voluntary resettlement of
IDPs and the repair and reconstruction of housing.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The project would address the following key issues in the repatriation of IDPs:
*  the link between relocation and reconstruction, more specifically the scope of reconstruction and
support measures required to induce IDPs to return to their former homes and remain there;
*  the trade-offs between achieving sustainability through cost recovery measures and the need to sustain
IDPs on their return;
*  creation of effective implementation mechanisms in areas that have been severely affected by
hostilities; and
* the need for close coordination of support from international donors.
The results of the social assessments show clearly that IDPs will only return to their former homes (a) if it is
safe to do so; (b) if the Government assists in the repair/rebuilding of houses and ensures the economic survival
of IDPs until they can take advantage of the various possibilities of income generation; and (c) if a program for
the reconstruction of social and physical infrastructure, etc. is in place that provides basic but comprehensive
support across a wide spectrum of needs (safety, education, health care, credit, etc.) to returning IDPs. The
Government has agreed to establish a special Relocation Agency that would be responsible for the voluntary
resettlement of IDPs and support to safeguard their survival, for the first year after their return home. ARRA,
will be responsible for implementation of reconstruction efforts, such as housing, infrastructure, energy supply,
health care facilities, schools, and the implementation of income generating activities.
At present, IDPs earn only 50% of average rural income so their ability to pay for services after their return will
have to be achieved gradually. As indicated above, during the first year after voluntary resettlement the
Relocation Agency will ensure that the basic needs of returning IDPs are met. It is expected that through the
support provided under this project, in particular for income generation, most returning IDPs should be able to
catch up with the improvements in the standards of living that have taken place in Azerbaijan nationwide within
three years. A year or so after their return, IDPs should be able to contribute to cost recovery for the services
they receive. It is the objective of the Government, supported by the proposed project, to ensure cost recovery
initially in areas where support measures provide financial returns - e.g. in agriculture (seasonable inputs,
irrigation and livestock). It is only in the medium term that IDPs can be expected to make a contribution to
services such as water, electricity, health and education. However, through village associations, people will be
expected to participate in self-help schemes once it is determined that they have spare time from essential
installation and income generating activities. ARRA's Project Monitoring & Implementation Unit will monitor
the improvements of the incomes of returning IDPs and discuss with the Association annually options for the
implementation of cost recovery measures.
A major objective of this project is to assist the Government in creating the capacity in Azerbaijan for the
repatriation of all remaining refugees and IDPs. This project will contribute to this effort in two ways. First, it
will provide valuable lessons about how to best deal with voluntary resettlement of IDPs and the reconstruction
of areas affected by hostilities. Second, it will assist in the strengthening of ARRA's capacity to coordinate
donor assistance and efficiently implement reconstruction projects in close cooperation with the line ministries
and local authorities. It will also result in the establishment of a separate Relocation Agency and a Demining
Agency. In implementing the project, ARRA will use all available options, ranging from public agencies to
private contractors and non-governmental institutions (both foreign and local). To ensure the sustainability of
reconstruction efforts, the project will support the creation of community-based organizations, preferably at the
3



village level. ARRA will involve representatives of these organizations at all stages of project implementation,
in particular on issues related to the operation and maintenance of facilities and cost recovery.
The proposed project builds on support from international donors for the reconstruction of the selected three
districts. Many of these donors will also contribute to the financing of its components. Considering that each of
these donors has preferences and constraints in the activities they can support and the amounts they can make
available, careful coordination of the support from international donors will be required. Much of this
coordination will come from the International Advisory Group the Government has set up for this purpose. In
addition, technical assistance will be provided under the proposed project to enable ARRA to deal effectively in
the day-to-day interactions with donor support in the field.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component               Category       Cost       % of    Bank-financing   % of Bank-
(US$M)    Total       (US$M)        financing
Relocation                  Inst. bldg.          1.8       3.3
Shelter                     Physical            14.0      25.8
Income generation
Agriculture             Physical             9.4       17.3         6.0           30.0
Micro credit and grants  Credit.             1.1        2.0         0.4            2.0
Public works, env. mitig.   Physical         0.4        0.7         0.4            2.0
Health and education
Health                  Physical             0.9        1.7         0.9            4.5
Education               Physical             4.2        7.7         1.9            9.5
Infrastructure and energy
Infrastructure          Physical             2.4        4.4         0.4            2.0
Energy                  Physical             12.1      22.3         7.2           36.0
Institutional support
ARRA                     Inst. bldg.          1.6       3.0         1.4            7.0
Agricultural support    Inst. bldg.          0.4        0.7         0.4            2.0
Demining Agency          Inst. bldg.         2.9        5.4         0.6            3.0
PPF                      Inst. bldg.         0.4        0.7         0.4            2.0
Recurrent costs                                  2.6       4.8
Totals                                          54.2     100.0         20.0          100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The investments and measures supported in each of the sub-sectors are in line with policy reforms that the Bank
is supporting in Azerbaijan and will reinforce this agenda. However, since the primary objective of this project
is to support institutional reforms and build capacity for the repatriation of aU remaining IDPs and refugees -
through the establishing of new agencies, the strengthening of ARRA's implementation capacity, the lessons
that will be learned from the repatriation of about 20,000 IDPs and a project that has been prepared and will be
implemented in close cooperation with other UN agencies - no specific effort is made to pursue further policy
reform in the various sub-sectors. As indicated above, the main reforms include:
* strengthening ARRA's capacity to implement complex reconstruction programs that require careful
orchestration of the implementation of the various subcomponents to ensure that returning IDPs will
receive basic but comprehensive support upon their return and to coordinate the aid efforts of various
donors;
4



* establishing a Relocation Agency that will ensure that the area to which IDPs return is safe, that IDPs
are properly informed about the support they will receive upon their return, and that transport
arrangements and support for IDPs is in place before they leave the camps.
*  establishing a Demining Agency, which would deal with the demining of additional areas and, through
a mine awareness program, contribute to the safety of returning IDPs;
*  creating community-based organizations and, where they exist, providing them with assistance so
they can fully participate in the design of projects, the maintenance of facilities and cost recovery;
*  setting-up local NGOs and forming private companies to enhance local capacity to physically
implement reconstruction projects and administer micro-credit schemes and similar income generating
measures; support to existing NGOs to foster the setting up of local NGOs, small and medium-sized
private companies; and assistance to ARRA to expand Azerbaijan's capacity to implement multi-
sectoral reconstruction efforts; and
* assisting the Government in establishing a clearly articulated policy for the recovery of costs under
voluntary resettlement and reconstruction programs.
As indicated above, the project reinforces the Bank's ongoing policy dialogue in the various sub-sectors. More
specifically it supports
* the Government's privatization policy for housing,
*  the development of rural micro finance institutions,
*  the Government's privatization policy for land,
*  the emphasis on primary care,
*  the use of the multi-functional school model,
*  efforts to improve the efficiency of transmission and distribution, and
*  the implementation of environmental mitigation measures (through proper disposal of asbestos)
The principal benefit of the project will be an enhanced capacity in Azerbaijan to resettle IDPs and refugees,
reconstruct infrastructure facilities in the currently occupied areas, and use the support provided by donors more
effectively. As a pilot project, it will also permit some experimentation and provide valuable lessons for the
implementation of the multi-sectoral reconstruction program.
The number of beneficiaries varies across subsectors. About 20,000 IDPs will benefit directly from the
investments and other activities supported by this project. Of the approximately 160,000 people living in the
three selected raions most will benefit from this project to varying degrees. Improved power supplies repairs on
infrastructure facilities, such as roads and railways will improve the lives of almost everybody living in the area,
as will the improvements in health care facilities and schools. Income generating activities are designed to
benefit primarily returning IDPs for the first two years; after this period, everybody living in these raions will be
able to take advantage of these measures. The following provides a more detailed breakdown of the benefits in
each of the sub-sectors covered by the project:
*  Support for voluntary resettlement would ensure the safe return of about 20,000 IDPs eliminating
their dependence on humanitarian aid at a savings of approximately $4 million per year;
*  Support for housing would provide 3,600 families with minimum shelter and sanitation and
contribute to the creation of jobs in the construction industry and the manufacture of building
materials;
*  Support for income generating activities would facilitate the transition from dependence on
humanitarian assistance to self-reliance by creating employment for an estimated 7000 people; this
should help to raise average family incomes to the national average within a few years; this would be
achieved primarily through support for agriculture, which would assist in privatization of
agriculture and result in an increase in the incomes of about 3,600 farm families. (Together, these
families will cultivate 1 l,OOOha.) An additional 13,400 farm families with about 35,000ha would
benefit from improved water supplies, land registration and other support services. In addition, the
micro-credit and small grants program would foster the development of small businesses.
Environmental mitigation measures will be most likely implemented through a public works
5



program. They would consist of a program to remove and properly dispose of materials containing
asbestos during the repair of houses.
*  Support to the health sector would provide higher quality primary care services at the village level,
improved availability of drugs and medical supplies, better trained doctors, nurses and midwifes as
well as better facilities with newer and, above all, operational equipment and furnishings; support to
the education sector would raise general education standards (including the physical environment in
schools) and school attendance. Students would have access to better physical facilities, equipment,
supply, core learning materials and supplementary materials. The morale of teachers and staff would
improve as a result of the availability of better pedagogical materials and training and greater
community participation in the functioning of the schools. This should help mobilize greater material
support from the communities for the operation and maintenance of schools and increased use of
schools for a broader range of community functions, which would strengthen community cohesion;
*  Support for infrastructure would restore water supply in two raions, Terter and Nakhchivan; and
support for the energy sector would provide about 160,000 people with reliable energy supplies.
Reliable power supply will be critical for the recovery of economic activity in the three districts;
modern equipment and improved planning of transmission and distribution networks will reduce
transmission and distribution losses; and the availability of electric power will sharply reduce the
reliance on fuel wood and slow further deforestation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD. The project will be implemented over a three-year period.
EXECUTING AGENCY. ARRA would be the executing agency for the project and will have the primary
responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the project. The Director of ARRA and his staff will oversee
and coordinate project activities and ensure that project implementation is consistent with the agreed project
objectives. It will be responsible for preparing and overseeing implementation of annual work programs,
monitoring, evaluation and reporting, accounts and audits, operation of the special account and the procurement
of goods and services. It will also be responsible for implementation of the institutional development component
including coordination with the Prime Minister's office and other donors through the IAG.
Up to now, ARRA has implemented about US$20 million worth of reconstruction projects. These projects were
financed partly out of budgetary resources, partly through assistance from international donors. In implementing
these projects ARRA has proven to be a highly effective organization. The proposed project, which covers a
wider range of sectors than ARRA has dealt before, will place a heavy demand on ARRA's staff and
implementing capacity. ARRA has prepared a program, which it has discussed with the Bank, to restructure its
operations and expand its staff. Under this program, ARRA's director will be assisted by two expatriate
consultants and oversee day-to-day operations with the help of four senior managers; additional local and
expatriate staff is being hired with assistance provided under a PHRD Grant and a Project Preparation Facility.
SUBCOMPONENT-SPECIFIC IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS. ARRA will implement the various
subcomponents with the help of line ministries, agencies or state committees, which are primarily responsible
for a particular sector. Where feasible, ARRA will use competitive tenders for the procurement of works, goods
and services. In view of the fact that the economies of the three raions are still in the process of being rebuilt,
international NGOs, small local businesses and, in some cases, government enterprises will be the most likely
bidders. Foreign suppliers are expected to bid on some of larger contracts in the agriculture and energy sectors.
In general, ARRA will be primarily responsible for procurement and the monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation. With exception of agriculture, where the line ministry plays a more extensive role (described in
Annex 2), the counterpart line agencies will advise on the drafting of the technical specifications, the evaluation
of bids and the supervision of the performance of contractors/suppliers. ARRA will remain responsible for the
payment of contractors.
ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING ARRANGEMENTS. ARRA will be responsible for
financial accounting and will maintain separate project accounts and records for project related expenditures in
6



accordance with sound and accepted accounting practices. ARRA will be responsible for the preparation of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and the drafting of financial reports. Accounts would be audited annually
according to international standards by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the calendar year, which coincides with the fiscal year in
Azerbaijan. ARRA has, up to now, implemented contracts worth about US$20 million. A significant share of
the finance for these contracts comes from international donors, who have insisted on ARRA following proper
accounting and auditing standards. Past audits by these donors indicate that ARRA has adequate financial
systems in place and that it is following proper accounting and auditing standards. The costs for the annual
audits are included in the support for the Project Monitoring Unit.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION. In view of the complexity of this project, which will require careful timing of
implementation activities, and in order to ensure that each of these activities is carried out in line with
appropriate procedures and in a transparent manner, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would monitor all
implementation activities and the quality of work performed and the goods delivered under the proposed
project. A qualified expatriate company with proven expertise in procurement and project implementation
would assist the Monitoring Unit. More specifically, the expatriate company will audit the complete
implementation of an agreed sample of contracts. The Monitoring Unit would report directly to the Director. It
will design a monitoring and reporting system, and before implementing it review it with the Association. The
Unit would gather information about the activities of the various contractors, the Relocation Agency, the
Demining Agency and IAG's efforts to raise finance for the overall Resettlement and Reconstruction Program.
The Unit would assemble the monitoring results in quarterly reports, which would be consolidated into bi-
annual reports and submitted to the Association for review. The monitoring and evaluation system would be
guided by the logical framework presented in Annex 1. Specific output and impact indicators, which will
facilitate the process of monitoring and evaluation, have been identified and agreed during negotiations. The
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will also evaluate progress in implementing the annual work programs for
ARRA. The M&E system will be the cornerstone for providing lessons of the experience needed for the design
of subsequent resettlement and reconstruction projects for Azerbaijan. An Implementation Completion Report
would be prepared six months after the final disbursement of the proposed credit.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The ultimate objective of the Government with regard to IDPs is to improve their living conditions and incomes
as quickly as possible. Several alternative project designs were considered:
a) A series of projects that would each aim at improving a particular aspect of the rehabilitation effort (e.g.
infrastructure, energy, income generation). Such an approach was adopted most recently in the
rehabilitation of refugees in Bosnia; and
b) extending the scope of the project to include the whole Resettlement and Reconstruction Program
covering 12 districts.
The first option was discarded, since the overall number of IDPs that could return to the liberated areas is
relatively small, and would not justify the costs of preparing a series of projects.
The Government would have clearly preferred the second option. However, in view of dismal conditions in
which IDPs live, the Government felt that assistance should be provided urgently. Since IDA financing would
be insufficient, finance from other international donors would be essential. To facilitate this effort, it was
decided to assist the Government in the preparation of a comprehensive Resettlement and Reconstruction
Program and to launch a smaller pilot project that would demonstrate the effectiveness of the approaches taken
to the rehabilitation of IDPs and the reconstruction of the damage in three districts. In addition to providing an
opportunity for experimentation with various mechanisms for voluntary resettlement, reintegration and
reconstruction, a less ambitious project would also allow to build implementation capacity for larger follow-up
assistance.
7



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                         Project                      Latest Supervision Ratings
Implementa-    Development
tion Progress   Objective
Bank-financed
Post Conflict Projects    Tajikistan: Post Conflict Reconstruction Project  NR            NR
Tajikistan: Post Conflict Rehabilitation Project  NR            NR
Bosnia-Herzegovina: Emerg. Landmines Clearance    S              S
Bosnia-Herzegovina: Emerg. Education Reconstruct.  S            HS
Bosnia-Herzegovina: Emerg. Electric Power Recon.  S              S
Azerbaijan: Proposed Reconstruction Project (FY99)
Other development agencies
ECHO                      Reconstruction of housing in Fizuli
EU                        Reconstruction housing and schools in Agdam
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory); NR (Not Rated)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Over the years the Bank has been able to accumulate considerable experience with reconstruction projects in
many parts of the world. A Frameworkfor World Bank Involvement in Post-Conflict Operations was prepared
and discussed by the Board in 1997. OED is currently finalizing a review of the Bank's experience with post-
conflict reconstruction based, in part, on lessons learned in nine countries. Preliminary findings from OED's
review which are particularly relevant to Azerbaijan include:
a) the need for an in-depth assessment of damages and involvement of affected people in defining their
needs;
b) early involvement of affected people and other stakeholders, including international and local NGOs, in
defining the strategy and scope of the reconstruction program;
c) support must include a comprehensive package of basic physical and social infrastructure along with
measures, such as support to agriculture, security of land tenure, micro-credit and start-up grants, to
stimulate job creation and income generating opportunities to jump-start the economy;
d) indiginization of the process of donor coordination and the creation of indigenous capacity to
implement reconstruction projects paired with procurement monitoring and audits to deal with concerns
about transparency and accountability;
e) using World Bank financing to complement and supplement the funding of other donors;
f) increasing public awareness through wide dissemination of information on entitlements, government
and donor programs, etc.; and
g) testing innovative experiments in assistance, particularly at the community level.
While building on the Bank's traditional strength in the reconstruction of physical infrastructure and macro-
economic policy advice, in this project considerable attention has been paid to areas in which the Bank has an
uneven record, such as the preparation of damage and needs assessments and in the restoration of human and
social capital. The Bank's experience with post-conflict operations has shown that these operations require more
intensive monitoring and evaluation and need to be designed with flexibility. This has been taken into account in
the design and preparation of the project, as well as in the implementation arrangements.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Government asked for the Bank's and UNDP's assistance in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of areas
affected by the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh. To facilitate this effort, the Bank and UNDP provided support
for the creation of ARRA, the preparation of damage and needs assessments and financing for some initial
8



efforts to demonstrate reconstruction mechanisms. In late 1997, the Government also established sector working
groups, with participation of the major local and foreign stakeholders, to assist ARRA and its consultants in the
production of the resettlement and reconstruction program. The sector working groups, ARRA staff and Azeri
consultants produced the program with UNHCR and World Bank staff providing examples of voluntary
resettlement/reconstruction lessons from other countries. The Government established the IAG to strengthen
donor participation and coordination in the preparation, implementation, and funding of the program. The fact
that some $16 million of funding has been assembled and is being used for reconstruction activities and the
Government's indication that it would provide a further $19 million from its own funds for the program, as
well as its continued financial support of ARRA, despite budgetary constraints, indicate its strong commitment
to the program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank's involvement with voluntary resettlement and reconstruction in Azerbaijan began in July 1996 when
the Government requested the Bank and UNDP to assist it in establishing the Azerbaijan Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Agency (ARRA). During the first year ARRA concentrated its efforts on preparing damage
assessments and attracting financing for the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure. ARRA's primary concem
was the reconstruction of houses and infrastructure in line with established norms. Efforts to restart economic
activity through support for agriculture, micro credit and other income generating schemes were largely left to
international donors and international NGOs. Increasingly, donors felt that there was a need to ensure that
returning IDPs received comprehensive support to safeguard the survival of returning families and allow them
to recapture their formner standard of living quickly. Many donors felt that it would greatly improve the
effectiveness of their assistance if it could be coordinated and, where feasible, implemented by ARRA. The
preparation of the comprehensive, multi-sector resettlement and reconstruction program, the partnership among
TINHCR, UNDP and World Bank, and the activation of the IAG under the co-chair of the EU, UNDP and
World Bank were direct consequences of these concerns.
As it has throughout project preparation, the Bank would play an important role in donor coordination for
reconstruction activities (UNHCR plays this role in voluntary resettlement and housing and UNDP for the
Demining Agency) in ensuring that all stakeholders, especially representatives of the IDPs and the local and
international NGO community, are involved in the monitoring, evaluation and inevitable reengineering during
implementation. As one of the three chairs of the IAG, the Bank, will assist ARRA and the Government in
ensuring that the program is implemented effectively and transparently in partnership with UNDP and UNHCR.
As the "lender of last resort," the financing of the World Bank is being used to supplement and complement
other donors to ensure that affected people receive a comprehensive package of essential services. The Bank's
world-wide experience in post-conflict reconstruction operations will continue to be a source of knowledge,
especially with regard to technical standards, financial sustainability, and institutional development, on which
Azerbaijan can call through frequent supervision which a program this complex requires.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file)
1. Economic
The primary objective of this project is to assist about 20,000 IDPs in their return to their former homes in three
districts, Fizuli, Agdam and Terter and in their efforts to rebuild their lives and improve their standards of
living. In addition to supporting IDPs during the initial period of voluntary resettlement, the proposed project
would focus on creating employment through investments critical to restarting the economies in these districts.
For all goods and works to be financed under the project a least-cost approach has been followed. Because of
the lack of reliable statistical data for a region that is emerging from protracted hostilities, it is neither possible
nor meaningful to estimate an overall economic rate of return. However, rate of return estimates from similar
projects in this region indicate that that the investments under this project should attain a rate of return of at least
12% per annum. In addition, much of the financial support that is provided under this project complements
investments made by other international donors. For economic rate of return calculations, the costs of these
9



investments represent 'sunk costs' and, as such, raise the economic rates of return of incremental investments
under the proposed project. Furthermore, it has to be kept in mind that most of the investments under this
project serve to start up economic activity in the selected three districts. It is safe to assume that, without this
project, the economies of these districts would recover at a much slower pace, if at all.
Finally, a major, albeit less tangible, benefit of this project are the lessons that will be learned from the
repatriation of IDPs and the reconstruction activities. In many respects the strategies, that have been adopted
under this project to ensure that returning IDPs will have basic but comprehensive support in their efforts to
rebuild their lives and with regard to coordination of support from international donors, are new to Azerbaijan.
The lessons will be invaluable when the Government will be able to repatriate the remaining 600,000 refugees
to currently occupied areas. In addition to improving living conditions and providing for basic human needs of
shelter, water and electricity, schools and clinics, the project would create an estimated 11,200 permanent jobs
in agriculture, the construction and building materials industries, and about 6,200 person-months of temporary
employment through the implementation of small community works by local private small and medium-size
enterprises.
2. Financial
The overall financial rate of return will be well below the economic rate of return. The main reason is the
Government's decision to link the implementation of cost recovery measures to the pace at which the local
economy recovers and the ability of returning IDPs to catch up with the standard of living of the rest of the
population in Azerbaijan. The Government estimates that it will take at least three years before economic
activity in the liberated areas reaches the level of the areas not affected by hostilities. For some services, such as
power, the Government is concerned that that the introduction of market tariffs at an early stage will encourage
people to continue with the indiscriminate cutting of trees for fire wood. In many areas this would deepen the
environmental damage that has already occurred. The Government assumes that subsidies will be phased out
within five years after the start of the project.
FISCAL IMPACT: The project will have a relatively small impact since central budget resources will be used to
finance part of the cost of the voluntary resettlement of IDPs, the cost of reconstructing houses and the cost of
subsidies for services provided to IDPs until cost recovery mechanisms are in place. UNHCR will bear a major
share of the cost of repatriation of IDPs and the cost of reconstructing their houses. Total annual expenditures
during implementation are estimated at US$2.5 million. Government counterpart funds required during project
implementation for the ARRA are estimated to climb to US$300,000 per year. With the phasing out of subsidies
and the collection of taxes, the project will eventually contribute significantly to government revenues.
3. Technical
Since the implementation of the project will create much of the employment that is needed to restart economic
activity in the selected three districts, most of the technologies that will be used are simple and in line with
existing traditions. Only in areas where it would not significantly infringe upon the creation of employment,
state-of-the-art technologies have been introduced. One such example is the use of GPS (Ground Positioning
System) technology, which will replace ground survey techniques in the preparation of land cadastre maps and
the demarcation of individual properties. In some of the other subsectors the introduction of new technologies
improves efficiency or meets the Bank's policies, again without lowering the potential for creating employment:
*  While traditional construction technology will dominate in the construction and repair of houses, the
Government has agreed that no materials containing asbestos will be used.
*  In the reconstruction of health care facilities, old design norms will be discarded in favor of simpler'
and smaller primary care facilities.
*  Schools will have several functions and become the center of community activities. Old design norms,
which provided for relatively large facilities, will be replaced by more efficient and simpler designs.
*  Technical assistance will be provided to reduce Azerbaijan's relatively high transmission and
distribution losses. The benefits will extend well beyond the primary beneficiaries of the project
10



4. Institutional
ARRA was created in late 1996 with the assistance of the World Bank and UNDP. Its relatively small staff is
highly qualified and dedicated. Over the past three years ARRA has been able to accumulate valuable
experience in the implementation of reconstruction and rehabilitation projects financed by other international
donors in the areas affected by hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh, particularly in Fizuli. As a result of the
increase in assistance from international donors, ARRA's workload has been steadily increasing. To deal with
the increase in the workload, particularly in view of the additional work under the proposed project, ARRA is in
the process of restructuring its organization and adding staff.
According to these plans, ARRA's director, who reports to the State Commission for Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction of Liberated Areas, will be supported by two expatriate consultants - one to assist ARRA's
Operations, Financial Management and Procurement units, the other one, to assist in raising additional funding
from international donors. Four Managers - Investment Planning and Projections, Operations, Finance, and
Information Management - and the Chief Accountant report to the Director. Together they oversee thirteen
organizational units, including regional offices in Fizuli, Terter, Nakhchivan and Agdam.
As far as the proposed project is concerned, ARRA will be responsible for
*  overall management of the project;
*  procurement of works, goods and consultants financed under the project;
*  supervision and quality control of the execution of works and the delivery of goods;
-  management of project accounts, including credit withdrawals, disbursements from the Special
Account as well as financial accounting, auditing and reporting procedures acceptable to the Bank;
*  monitoring of project implementation and the preparation of quarterly reports to the Bank;
*  efforts to seek continuous feedback from IDPs and other stakeholders on the adequacy of project
response to their needs;
*  close liaison with the line ministries, state committees and local authorities on the implementation of
the various project subcomponents;
*  assisting government authorities in adequately informing the population about the project and the
benefits it offers to IDPs;
o assisting the LAG in coordinating the assistance of international donors; and
*  expansion of implementation capacity for the various project subcomponents, so that additional
support from international donors can be absorbed effectively.
The Government will provide ARRA with an annual budget sufficient to cover regular operating costs such as
rental of office space, utilities, salaries of support personnel and other miscellaneous expenses. UNDP, UNHCR
and the World Bank will continue to assist ARRA through technical assistance, such as the funding of expatriate
consultants, the purchase of vehicles and other equipment.
5. Social:
The objectives of the social assessments were to examine the situation of the internally displaced people (IDPs)
living in and around the liberated areas; and initiate a process of consultation with the intended beneficiaries of
the voluntary resettlement and reconstruction effort to help identify the most appropriate types of assistance.
Main Findings
*  IDPs are among the poorest of poor with widespread unemployment.
*  Community integrity is high among displaced people.
*  Overall access to information is inadequate in IDP communities.
* IDPs trust the Government to solve their problems.
Priorities
* Security and safety are the most important issues for returning IDPs. Once they return, housing and
income generation become the most important priorities.
11



*  There are differences in reconstruction demands due to varying damage levels in different regions.
*  Most IDPs do not have the required start-up capital for private business or for sustaining themselves
immediately after repatriation.
*  Food supply is a major concern for repatriated households.
*  IDPs have inadequate access to infrastructure services such as water, power and heating.
*  Educational activities need to start soon after repatriation.
Implications
*  Support job creation and income generation.
*  Support housing improvements and repair physical infrastructure.
*  Provide assistance to IDPs in self-help solutions.
*  Initiate mine removal programs.
*  Improve access to information.
*  Identify and support mechanisms for temporary land allocation.
*  Protect the environment.
*  Strengthen government institutions and civil society
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   []A   [X] B   []C
As an emergency-type operation, the project has been rated as environmental category B. All goods and works
that offer an opportunity for preventing or mitigating environmental damages will be specified accordingly. The
use of goods and the implementation of works will be monitored during supervision to ensure that there are no
adverse environmental effects. The proposed project would provide support to strengthen ARRA's capacity, as
well as that of local authorities, to ensure environmental sustainability of the sectoral strategies that are being
implemented. Overall, the proposed project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment. More
specifically, the replacement of materials containing asbestos in the construction of houses as well as the proper
disposal of asbestos materials and the installation of transformers that do not contain PCB and the proper
disposal of older transformers containing PCB will remove potential health hazards; reconstruction of
transmission and distribution facilities will provide retuming IDPs with power, both for cooking as well as
space heating, and thus reduce the need for fuel wood.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Voluntary resettlement by definition is highly participatory. The project will include a mass information
campaign utilizing all available media to inform IDPs of conditions in their home settlements. With close
involvement of UNHCR, consultations will be held to address the IDPs concerns and tailor the project to their
needs. Proposals for income generation should come from the communities and individuals. Implementing
agencies will distribute information on the objectives, scope, target group and implementing mechanisms of the
project among beneficiaries. The project design relied heavily on the data collected in the social assessment and
the views of local officials to involve all stake holders in the process of project development.
12



b. Other key stakeholders:
Stakeholders       Information           Consultation                    Collaboration
sharing
ARRA                    Yes           Yes                            Yes
Relevant Ministries     Yes           Yes                            Provided materials for feasibility
study and reviewed study;
participated in advisory groups
Local MOH officials and  Yes          Yes, through social assessments,  Proposed during implementation
staff                                 feasibility study, and field visits.
Local MOE officials and  Yes          Yes, through social assessment,   Proposed during implementation
school staff                          and field visits.
Households in affected    Yes         Yes, through social assessments,  Proposed during implementation
areas                                 field visits to schools, etc.
Donors and intemational  Yes          Yes                            Yes, in particular through the
and local NGOs                                                       International Advisory Group.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project has been designed to identify sectoral strategies that would ensure that the process of repatriating
IDPs on a large scale will be financially and environmentally sustainable in accordance with policies and
procedures agreed with UNHCR. Critical for the financial sustainability of the project will be (a) the
introduction of cost recovery mechanism, carefully timed with the pace of the recovery of local economic
activity; (b) the development and expansion of the capacity to implement a package of comprehensive
reconstruction activities; (c) the extent to which community participation can be developed, particularly with
regard to the operation of schools, clinics and infrastructure facilities; and (d) careful coordination of support
from international donors to ensure that returning IDPs receive the support they need to restart their livelihoods.
Without some indication that this support will be available after they leave the camps and other temporary
shelters, most IDPs will be reluctant to give up the humanitarian aid which they are receiving there.
13



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Insufficient counterpart financing;             Moderate    Provision of necessary Government budgetary
resources will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Resumption of hostilities or change in security    Low       The political and military situation will be monitored
conditions. Lack of a permanent political settlement         throughout the project life for changes, particularly in
over Karabakh or renewed local violence may                  the security aspects of the project. Individual
undermine confidence in EDP about repatriation and           settlements will be removed from the project as
delay implementation of the program.                         warranted by the situation.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
IDPs decide not to return                        Moderate    95% of respondents in the social assessment stated
that they are prepared to return home. The project
addresses all of the basic needs of the population
(security, physical retum, housing, water, agriculture,
social services and employment opportunities) to
allow for a safe, voluntary, sustainable resettlement.
Ineffective donor coordination                   Moderate    *continuing work with ARRA to improve its outreach
and coordination capacity
*working through existing donor/NGO coordination
channels to increase information exchange
*clarifying direct parallel financing arrangements with
EU, Soros and other international donors.
*more detailed work by the Resident Mission,
including field visits to project areas.
UNHCR's annual appeals for funds to              Moderate    Bank will obtain assurance from the Government that
repair/reconstruct houses fail to reach their targets.       it will make additional resources available.
Delay in issuance of land titles                   Low       Strengthening of the State Land Comrittee offices in
Fizuli, Terter and Agdam raions with the necessary
personnel, equipment, supplies, etc. as soon as
possible. Conducting mass media campaign to
promote awareness among IDPs about their rights to
obtain land ownership. Registration fees with the
Ministry of Justice to be made free.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
14



G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* The Government has established a Demining Agency.
* The Government has established a Relocation Agency.
* The Government has opened a project account at a Bank in Azerbaijan acceptable to the Association
to cover the operating costs (such as the costs of teachers' salaries, the salaries of health care
professionals, etc.) of government agencies and public sector enterprises for all their activities under
this project and made an initial deposit of US$250,000.
* The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ARRA, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
*  The Government has appointed independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association.
* ARRA has adopted guidelines setting out the terms and conditions and criteria for rental agreements
for the agriculture component, satisfactory to the Association.
2. Agreements reached with the Government
* Non-governmental organizations/technical assistance specialists and those involved in project
implementation have access to project areas at all times.
* The Government will take all measures necessary to ensure that the right of IDPs to the land that they
are relocated to shall be protected through the issuance of land titles in accordance with the law on
land reform (Law no. 155 EG of July 16,1996) and Law on Kolkhoz and Sovkhoz Reform (Law no.
978 of February 18, 1995).
- Returning IDPs will receive electricity free of charge for the first year after their return up to
2000kWh per capita; after that, charges for the IDPs' electricity consumption will progressively be
increase to reach the level Azenerji charges all consumers by the end of the fourth year following
their relocation.
* The Government will cause Azenerji to submit to the Association not later than June 30,1999 a study
of options for cost recovery by Azenerji for the services provided under the project.
* Confirmation that all procurement under the proposed project would be exempt from excise taxes and
duties.
Agreements with ARRA
* ARRA will set up, by December 31, 1998, a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to monitor all
implementation activities as well as the quality of the work performed and the goods delivered under
the proposed project. A qualified international company with proven expertise in procurement and
project implementation will assist the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in their reviews. The
international company will audit the complete implementation of an agreed sample of contracts.
* ARRA will prepare and furnish to the Association by March 31, 1999, a study of options for cost
recovery by MOA for the farm inputs and machinery services being provided under the Project and
exchange views with the Association to determine the most appropriate option and steps to be taken
for the implementation of the study.
* ARRA will prepare a mid-term review report by June 30, 1999 and conduct a review of the report
with the Association the report by September 15, 1999
* ARRA will provide assurances that no toxic building materials or materials containing asbestos would
be used in the repair or reconstruction of houses under this project.
*  ARRA will apply the same measures in the reconstruction/repair of houses as UNHCR to ensure the
safety of IDPs.
15



H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[XI The procurement documents for the first year's activities are being prepared and will be ready for the start
of project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[I The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[3 ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Peter Pollak
Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Country Director: Isbrat Husain
16



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Azerbaijan: Pilot Reconstruction Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Reduction of poverty in     1. GNP per capita rises       1. WB International      *Peace agreement has been signed.
Azerbaijan                  2. Percentage of total population  Economics Department  *Reconstruction program for
below the poverty line falls  Reports and WB Country   currently occupied areas is initiated
Department.              after peace agreement has been
2. WB International      signed.
Economics Department     *Enhancement of competitiveness
Reports and WB Country   in key economic sectors.
Department.              *Establishment of a policy and
institutional framework conducive
to efficient and equitable private
sector led sustainable growth.
*Establishment of a more effective
system of social protection to help
meet the most pressing needs of
vulnerable groups
*Establishment of a more rational
system of delivering basic social
services, in particular for health
and education.
Project Development
Objective:
Repatriation of about 20,000    1. Average family incomes  1. Quarterly Project    *Cease fire agreement holds
internally displaced persons in  among returning IDPs are $788   Reports by ARRA's  *Government continues to support
a way that maximizes their  by 1999, $1,920 by 2000, and    Monitoring and Evaluation  the voluntary resettlement and
chances to recover          $2,996 by 2001.               Unit and reports of other   rehabilitation of IDPs, at least
economically.               2. The percentage of people   donors and international    initially through subsidized
living below the poverty line in   and local NGOs      services.
the project area falls to 40% by                       *International donor community
1999, 25% by 2000, and 10%   2. Same as #1.           contributes around US$70 million
by 2001.                                              for voluntary resettlement and
3. 16% of IDP families return to  3. ARRA Monitoring and   rehabilitation in the liberated areas.
the project area by 1999; 66%  Evaluation Unit         *Aggressive implementation of
by 2000; 100% by 2001.                                 income generating programs, in
4. By the end of 1999, less than   4. ARRA Monitoring and   particular assistance to farmers.
20% of IDPs that have returned   Evaluation Unit and WB  *Implementation of policies and
home continue to commute to    Country Department     institutions that support and
areas outside of their                                encourage the development of an
communities for employment;                           efficient private sector.
this percentage declines to less                       *Development of a rural banking
than 15% by 2000; and less than                        and credit sector.
10% by 2001.                                          *Government support for the
development of private enterprise
17



Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project Outputs:
Physical voluntary         Number of resettlement grants    Outputs will be monitored
resettlement of 20,000 IDPs to  provided.               and evaluated through
their homes in the liberated                            ARRA regular progress
areas.                                                 reports and supervision
missions
Reconstruction and         1000 houses completed by 4/99;                       *Public aware and informed of
rehabilitation of housing,  2100 houses by 4/00; and 3469                       benefits of the reconstruction
infrastructure, energy supply,   houses by 4/01.                                program;
health and education services.                                                  *Sufficient counterpart financing;
Within first year 40% of                            *Efficient and effective
damaged infrastructure will be                      coordination between different
repaired; during the second and                      donors and agencies
third years, the remaining 40%                       *Hostilities don't resume and
and 20%, respectively will be                       security conditions do not change
repaired
12 schools repaired and properly
equipped by 4/99; 23 by 4/00
and 44 by 4/01
8 health facilities repaired and
properly equipped by 4/99; 19
by 4/00 and 27 by 4/01
18% of public buildings and
private homes have access to
energy supply by 4/99; 48% by
4/00 and 80% by 4/01.
Implementation of income   50% loan repayment rate by
generation activities      6/00; 95% by 4/01.
20 business plan training
sessions conducted by 6/00; 50
by 6/01.
Number of loans/grants
10% increase in family farm
incomes by 8/99; 25% by 8/00
and 50% by 4/01.
1,000 land titles issued by end
of 1999,2,100 by 2000, and
3,469 by 2001.
100 individual/group/ private
farms by end of 1999, 210 by
2000 and 350 by 2001.
18



Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Establishment of an         Relocation agency has been
institutional framework that    established by August 31, 1998.
will be able to handle the
repatriation of all remaining  Demining agency has been
IDPs and refugees           established by July 1, 1998.
ARRA has fully implemented
the staffing plan agreed with
IDA in October 1997.
Ability and capacity to     ARRA appointed expatriate
mobilize the international  advisor for the coordination of
donor community and        intemational donor support.
coordinate the donor resources
necessary to repatriate     UNHCR appeal for funding of
remaining IDPs and refugees    housing reaches 80% of its
target for 1998, 1999, and 2000
Asbestos is safely removed  Asbestos has been removed
from damaged houses.        from 30% of houses repaired/
reconstructed under the project
by end of 1999, 60% by 2000
and 100% by 2001.
Project Components/         Project Inputs: (budget for
Subcomponents               component in US$ million)
Voluntary resettlement of               1.8              All inputs monitored and    *IDPs continued desire to return
IDPs' , transport costs, grants,                         evaluated through regular
social security, etc.                                    progress and disbursement
reports and reports of
parallel financing donors
and ARRA.
Reconstruction/repair of                14.0                                      *UNHCR's annual appeals for
housing                                                                           funds to repair/reconstruct houses
reach 80% of their targets.
Agricultural inputs and                 9.4                                       *Land registration in place in
irrigation works                                                                  liberated areas and timely issuance
of land titles and maintenance of
land registry.
*Timely provision of adequate
supplies of inputs, information
services to enable IDPs to
undertake farming and realize full
benefits of agricultural package.
*Timely and adequate water for
irrigation, and establishment of
Water User's Association.
19



Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Micro-credits and small grants           1.1                                       *Regulatory mechanism in place
*Taxation and unwritten bribe
practices do not discourage
beneficiaries.
Public works & environmental             0.4                                       *Development of operational
mitigation                                                                         guidelines for the handling of
asbestos during removal
Repair of health facilities              0.9                                       *Support of central Ministry of
Drugs, medical supplies,                                                           Health.
equipment, etc.                                                                    *Inputs flow to local level.
*Community participation.
*No major conflicts between
project technical specs and
Ministry of Health norms.
Repair & rehabilitation of               4.2                                       *Support of central and local
schools                                                                            Ministry of Education.
Learning materials, school                                                         *Adequate budgetary support for
furniture & equipment                                                              the recurrent costs of schools.
*Community participation.
*Improved school attendance.
Repair of water supply,                  2.4                                       *Timely establishment of Water
railway and telecom                                                                Users' Associations
Power line/substation repair &          12.1                                       *Preparation of a satisfactory
rehabilitation. transformers,                                                      design of the transmission and
power station equipment                                                            distribution system.
Institutional support to ARRA,           4.6                                       *Preparation of explicit 'twinning
the demining agency and                                                            arrangements' between ARRA's
agricultural support services                                                      staff and expatriate specialists
ensure efficient training of
ARRA's staff. Reflection of these
arrangements in ARRA's
organizational chart.
Institutional support for donor          0.3
coordination
20



Annex 2
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Project Description
Project design
The project has been designed to support the Government's program to achieve the following three
objectives - (i) the development of an effective approach to the voluntary resettlement and rehabilitation
of IDPs, (ii) the establishment and strengthening of institutions in Azerbaijan involved in the voluntary
resettlement of IDPs, demining and the reconstruction of areas affected by the conflict over Nagorno-
Karabakh and (iii) assistance in raising and coordinating support from international donors and NGOs -
through a program that would provide returning IDPs with comprehensive support, including assistance
in relocation, basic shelter and food aid immediately after their return, support for income generating
activities, access to basic health care, schools, power and other infrastructure facilities. In addition the
project would provide assistance to enhance the capacity of agencies in Azerbaijan to deal more
effectively with the voluntary resettlement of IDPs, demining activities, the coordination and
implementation of assistance from international donors. The project consist of the following six
components:
-  support for the voluntary resettlement of IDPs;
*  reconstruction/repair of housing;
*  support for creating employment and raising incomes;
*  rehabilitation of health care facilities and schools;
*  reconstruction and repair of infrastructure, power transmission and distribution; and
*  support to enhance the capacity of agencies involved in the rehabilitation of IDPs, demining
and the reconstruction of areas affected by the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh.
In view of the limited implementation capacity that is currently available, the scope of the project is
limited to the repatriation of IDPs to three districts (raions), Agdam, Fizuli and Terter. (Some emergency
support has also been provided for the repatriation of 47 families to Nakhchivan out of the PPF for this
project.)
Relocation - US$1.8 million
As a result of the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh about 900,000 people have lost their homes. Most of
them continue to live in camps and makeshift shelters in dismal conditions. Approximately 400,000 lived
in areas that have become accessible to Azerbaijan since the cease-fire. While a few never left their
homes, a growing number are in the process of returning to their former homes. Experience has shown
that quite a few IDPs return to their forner homes spontaneously, when they feel that it is safe to do so.
Without shelter, access to health care, schools and other basic infrastructure services many families are
reluctant to give up their existence in camps where the Government and international aid agencies
provide them with basic humanitarian aid. Members of these families frequently commute to their former
homes to carry out basic repairs or assist in the reconstruction. As soon as shelter is available and the area
is safe, the family returns, often together with other families of the village or community. Lack of
employment opportunities force many returning IDPs to commute to other areas in Azerbaijan.
The objective of this component is to facilitate the return of about 20,000 IDPs (3,600 families) to their
former homes in Agdam, Fizuli and Terter. The resettlement of IDPs is voluntary. Most communities
retained their cohesiveness even in camps. In light of this fact, the Government tends to relocate whole
communities after it has been established that it is safe to do so and usually after basic shelter is available.
21



IMPLEMENTATION. The Government has requested assistance from UNHCR for the voluntary
resettlement of approximately 20,000 IDPs. UNHCR has launched a special appeal to secure funding for
this activity and the reconstruction/repair of houses and other related activities.
Before the actual repatriation takes place, IDPs are informed about the conditions in the areas they are
returning to and the support they can expect to receive. The Government provides each family with
approximately US$450 - US$475. This includes a transportation allowance (US$50-US$75); a grant for
agricultural implements, seeds and food (US$100); household necessities US$30 per capita); and social
security payments (US$5 per capita per month). In addition, a law is currently before Parliament that
would provide returning IDPs with free medical care, household items on preferential terms, free
registration for children in schools, receipt of State allowances and other forms of aid, and compensation
relating to material loss and other losses. The law would also encourage small business activities and
provide favorable tax conditions for the returnees and their employers.
To facilitate the repatriation of larger numbers of IDPs, in particular to provide them with support during
the first year after their return, the Government has decided, after consultation with the Commission for
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction and the International Advisory Group (IAG) to establish a Relocation
Agency. Support for the establishment of this agency will be provided under this project (US$1.0
million). Since this agency will be essential for the implementation of this component, agreement has
been reached with the Government to establish this agency as a condition of effectiveness.
Reconstruction/repair of houses - 14.0 million
The results of the social assessments show that housing and employment are the two main concerns of
IDPs in their decision of whether to return to their former homes or to remain in the camp. The timing of
the actual relocation of IDPs and the completion of the work under this component closely linked. People
will only return to their former homes if the area is safe and they have basic shelter and a reasonable
chance of finding employment. International donors and NGOs have concentrated their efforts in
assisting in the reconstruction and repair of houses. In spite of their efforts, a large number of families are
waiting for help in getting their houses rebuilt. The objective of this component is complement the work
that has been done by Government agencies, international donors and NGOs, and to reconstruct or repair
(depending on the extent of the damage of the buildings) an estimated 3470 houses and seven apartment
buildings in Agdam, Terter and Fizuli.
IMPLEMENTATION. Financing for this component will come from funds raised through a special appeal
by UNHCR and, to the extent that additional funding is required, through contributions from
Government budgetary resources. In implementing this component, TINHCR is discouraging relocation to
areas closer than 3km from the current front line. As a condition of its assistance, UNHCR expects that
the beneficiaries participate in the repair! reconstruction of houses. UNHCR groups damaged houses into
three categories:
*  Completely destroyed houses. Families whose houses have been completely destroyed will be
provided with a new small house based on the Government's standard of five square meters per
family member. UNHCR estimates the cost of a house (building materials and labor) for a
family of five at about $2,600. Family members are expected to participate in the construction
of their house if they are in a position to do so. This not only reduces the cost of construction, it
also ensures that the preferences of the future owners are fully taken into account.
*  Heavily damaged houses. Families, whose houses are heavily damaged will be encouraged to
repair their own houses with materials supplied by UNHCR. These materials would be
sufficient to construct the roof and repair adequate living space based on the Government's
standard of five square meters per family member. UNHCR uses local implementing partners,
22



mostly NGOs, to deliver the required quantity of building materials to the beneficiaries and to
provide them with technical advice and guidance. The materials will be delivered in stages to
ensure the commitment of beneficiaries to the project. The cost of the building materials should
not exceed the cost of a replacement house (that is US$2,600 for a family of five). Families that
are not in a position to contribute to the repair of their houses will be provided with a new small
house as described above.
Lightly damaged houses. Many houses sustained only minor damage, mostly to windows and
roofing sheets. In these cases UNHCR will provide materials to weatherproof the roof and
provide adequate living space in line with Government standards described above. Again, the
cost of the building materials will be capped at the cost of a replacement house. Past experience
with the repair of such houses has shown that the costs of building materials average about
US$500 - US$700
In the unlikely event that there is a significant shortfall in the funding of UNHCR's special appeal, ARRA
will implement the portion of the repair and reconstruction of houses and apartment buildings that is not
covered by the funds raised under the special appeal. ARRA would implement this work through
competitive tenders. ARRA would hire technical consultants to assess the damage and prepare detailed
plans for the reconstruction/repair of houses. Based on these plans ARRA would invite bids from local
construction companies and NGOs who would either hire small local construction companies or
construction brigades, that is teams of construction workers to carry out housing repair and small
construction jobs, usually under the guidance of a foreman.
In the context of this project, ARRA and UNHCR are exploring the possibility of cooperating more
closely in the repair/reconstruction of houses. Instead of carrying out the repairs in parallel, UJNHCR
would contribute building materials up to an amount of US$2,600 for severely damaged houses. ARRA
would hire an architect to draw plans for the repair, purchase additional building materials (should this be
necessary), and hire the contractor. Before starting the work, ARRA and its architect would discuss the
plans for repair with the beneficiary and UNHCR. Both ARRA and UNHCR would monitor the repair
work and sign off on the quality of the work performed. This arrangement would have several
advantages. It would ensure that returning IDPs will have access to an acceptable shelter, even if the
repair of their house would exceed the cap of US$2,600 imposed by UNHCR and closer cooperation
between UNHCR and ARRA would strengthen ARRA's capacity to implement housing repair in a
manner that is acceptable international donors and would demonstrate to the international donor
community the Government's willingness to contribute financially to the reconstruction effort.
In view of the fact that many schools and other community buildings are still used to shelter IDPs and/or
military units, there is an urgent need for temporary buildings that can be used as classrooms, clinics and
community meeting rooms. To meet these needs UNHCR will install about 50 pre-fabricated buildings.
The locations and exact uses will be determined in consultation with the village residents.
In conjunction with the repair and construction of houses, UNHCR and ARRA will not use any materials
that contain asbestos, and will clean up asbestos in damaged houses and properly dispose of this debris.
Until a proper disposal facility becomes available in Azerbaijan, all asbestos containing waste will be
sealed and stored in temporary landfill.
To maintain adequate control over quality and to ensure timely delivery of works, goods and services, as
well as transparency in the use of funds, 24 personmonths of expatriate consultant support and 30
personmonths of local consultant support have been included under the support for project
implementation. The consultant would review a sample of bid documents and tenders and the quality and
cost of the associated repair/construction work.
23



In addition to providing about 20,000 returning IDPs with basic housing, this component is estimated to
create additional employment in the construction and building materials industries and stimulate the
development of local enterprises. As such, it will be a major element in the Government's strategy for
jump-starting the local economy.
Income generation - US$ 10.9 million
As indicated above, employment is the main concern - after safety and the availability of shelter - of IDPs
contemplating the return to their former homes. To achieve one of the main objectives of this project, i.e.
to assist the Government in the implementation of measures that would jump-start economic activity in
the three selected districts and to give returning IDPs a reasonable chance to catch up with the
improvements in the standards of living that have taken place in the recent past, the project provides
substantial financial support to activities that hold the greatest promise for creating employment and
raising incomes. While many IDPs will find employment in agriculture or activities related to
agriculture, quite a few have no agricultural experience. Since it is unlikely that the industrial enterprises
that used to provide employment in these districts will be rebuilt in the near future, funds will be provided
for re-training and the development of business plans (small grants) and micro-credits for starting up
small businesses. This will be complemented through a small public works program, that will involve
mostly the removal of materials containing asbestos and PCB.
Agriculture - US$ 9.4 million
The objective of the agricultural component is to assist the individuals being settled in the liberated areas
of Fizuli, Terter, and Agdam to start, develop and sustain agriculture based activities. This would be
achieved through: (a) the provision of a package of essential seasonal inputs; livestock, equipment and
machinery; on-farm demonstration of improved agricultural technology practices and marketing support;
(b) legitimizing the new owners, in areas where this is possible, by providing them with land titles; (c)
rehabilitating critical irrigation infrastructure and organizing water user's associations to ensure timely
and reliable supply of water; and (d) improving public awareness through mass media dissemination of
information on a variety of subjects essential to make informed decisions and increase people
participation in the development process. It will consist of the following subcomponents:
*  Provision of agricultural inputs. (a) Seasonal: would provide a package consisting of quality
seeds, (wheat, barley, sugarbeet, cotton, potato, fodder crops and vegetables), fertilizer
(Nitrogenous, Phosphatic and Potash), and fuel; and (b) Medium to long term: provision of
small tractors, power tillers, tractor implements for small and medium scale farmers, spare
parts for farm machinery and farm equipment; and free one time distribution of one cow and/or
two goats/sheep per family.
*  Rehabilitation of critical irrigation infrastructure. Consists of restoration of subartesian
wells, pumping station, water dividers, aqueduct, water outlets and cleaning of canals. (Some of
the restoration works being undertaken would also provide drinking water, in addition to
irrigation purposes.)
*  Provision of agricultural support services. (i) establish land registration services in three
raions to issue land ownership titles; (ii) provide agricultural information services in three
raions to increase awareness and educate the persons in various types of entitlements,
programs, and agricultural practices; develop and disseminate information using mass media;
(iii) carry out on-farm adaptive field trials of improved practices through involvement of
Intemational Agricultural Research Center and Ganja Agricultural Academy/other research
institutes; and (iv) marketing support for low-cost interventions to eliminate critical marketing
24



bottlenecks and enable the producers to receive fair market prices for their products in three
selected locations.
* Technical assistance in the implementation of this sub-component. Support to ARRA;
technical assistance and training for establishment and implementation of water user's
associations; quality control of irrigation; monitoring and evaluation.
The implementation of these subcomponents would contribute to:
*  Creation and development of privatized agriculture in the areas affected by the conflict
over Nagorno-Karabakh. This would result from the following project activities: (a) land
registration system: Establishment of a modem and secure land registration system with
appropriate procedures would provide clarity of land titles, instill confidence in individuals
over legal rights to land ownership, and form the basis for land mortgaging and creation of land
markets in the future; (b) agricultural support services: the project's emphasis on providing
timely and wide dissemination of various types of information, would increase the awareness
of the opportunities presented by a market economy, and to evaluate the relative profitability of
alternative crop and livestock activities and to enter new markets. The use of mass media and
participatory workshops would help build consensus. Community based programs is expected
to promote project ownership by the beneficiaries and the various agencies involved.
*  Increase in individual farm family incomes. The provision of a package of essential
agricultural inputs, cow and goat, timely availability of water; machinery services and
facilitation of marketing agricultural products are expected to have a positive effect on crop
productivity and farm family incomes. Cropping intensity is expected to increase from about 80
percent at present to 120 percent, as a result of introducing the cultivation of early maturing
vegetables in addition to wheat or cotton. Average per capita incomes in the project areas are
expected to increase as a result of increased production
The Government has established a special unit within the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the
agricultural component of the project. It will work in close coordination with ARRA, State Land
Committee, State Irrigation Committee, raion administrations and departments of agriculture in each of
the project raions. The project would draw upon the experience gained under the IDA/IFAD financed
Farm Privatization Project and use their facilities and the skills of the staff in the areas of land
registration, agricultural information and advisory services and creation of Water User's Association.
Following are the specific implementation arrangements for the proposed activities:
* Provision of critical agricultural inputs and assets. The IDPs would receive a one time
package' as grant for agricultural inputs consisting of seeds, fertilizer, livestock (cow and/or
sheep). The project unit in the MOA would be responsible for the preparation and finalization
of the detailed technical specifications for seeds, fertilizer, livestock and farm machinery and
providing these to ARRA for the preparation of bidding documents; and carrying out the
tendering process. The MOA unit would manage the contract with foreign and domestic
suppliers and consultants; supervise the selection of eligible farmers; set up and maintain a
project monitoring and evaluation system; detailed database and monitor their progress;
A typical package would consist of: Winter wheat seed - 220 kg/ha; Fertilizer - Urea 270 kg; Amophos 300 kg; Muriate
of Potash 100 kg; one cow and/or two sheep; and Diesel 130 liters. This package would have to be provided sometime in
August/early September 1998 for the September/October sowing for winter wheat. A typical package for spring season
would consist of cotton seed 80 kg/ha; lucerne 4 kg for 0.25 ha; Fertilizer - Urea 250 kg; Amophos 350 kg; Muriate of
Potash 100 kg; one cow and/or two sheep; and Diesel 140 liters. Choice of potato and vegetable seeds packages would
also be made available for IDPs' wishing to cultivate these crops. These packages would have to be made available
sometime in February 1999 for the March/April 1999 sowing season.
25



organize the distribution of inputs and livestock. In case of seeds, the research institute's
pedigree seed farms would be contracted to provide winter wheat, spring cotton and Lucerne
seeds for distribution to the IDPs. The actual distribution of agricultural inputs would be
carried out by the raion level department of agriculture, who could also use NGOs to carry
out distribution of inputs. In the case of the provision of farm machinery and spare parts,
MOA, with the assistance of ARRA, would identify the requirement for farm machinery in
each of the areas where the returning IDPs are being settled, prepare the tender specifications
and the bidding documents. ARRA would be responsible for the management and execution
of the procurement of farm machinery and spare parts, their delivery to the project areas and
will remain the owner of the farm machinery. The returning IDPs would be required to form
associations and/or legally registered groups in order to be eligible for obtaining farm
machinery and spare parts. The machinery would be provided to these private groups on a
five to seven year rental basis (depending on the type of machinery and expected life), with
an option for purchase at the end of the rental period. In the case of spare parts, these would
be provided at their actual cost to the farm groups. The machinery services required for
various farm operations by the association members of individual IDPs would be provided on
a fee basis.
-  Land registration. The raion level offices of the State Land Committee in the project raions,
being strengthened under the project would be responsible for land registration activities. The
central unit of the State Land Committee/Land Institute (AZGIPROZEM) located at Baku
would provide the needed assistance to the raion level offices of the SLC in the project areas
to develop standardized procedures, methodologies, carrying out land surveys, etc, in order to
issue land titles to the relocated IDPs;
* Rehabilitation of critical irrigation infrastructure. This would be implemented by local
contractors under the supervision of the State Irrigation Committee. The SIC would be
assisted by an internationally recruited quality control irrigation engineer. The project would
assist the private farms to organize Water User's Association, (WUA), which would mobilize
and train farmers to form groups and take responsibility for operation, maintenance, cost
recovery and management of water resources. The WUAs would be formed through a
participatory process in each of the project farms;
*  Agricultural Information services and on-farm demonstrations. The Ministry of
Agriculture's unit of farm information and advisory services, which has been established
under the Farm Privatization Project would be responsible for providing the necessary
support to the department of agriculture in the project raions in the provision of farm
information and advisory services. The unit, in coordination with the department of sciences
in the MOA will contract local crop development and research institute/Ganja Agricultural
Academy to carry out on-farm demonstrations, and introduction of appropriate agricultural
technologies in collaboration with International Agricultural Research Centers, such as
ICARDA CIMMYT, and CIP.
Microcredits and small grants- US$1.1 million
The objective of this component is to assist returning IDPs in the starting up of small businesses. This
facility is for the time being open only to returning IDPs, after submission of a business plan that defines
how the loan would be used. (Starting July 1, 2000 all IDPs will be eligible to apply for these loans.) The
loans will have a ceiling of US$1,000. The repayment period depends on the business plan. At present,
these loans are provided free of interest, since service providers currently bear the cost of administration
of these loans. ARRA bears the credit risk. In the future, ARRA will levy a small administrative fee to
cover the costs of the service providers.
26



Implementation. ARRA, which will implement this subcomponent, will invite bids for the
administration of micro-credits from qualified entities, most likely NGOs. (In view of the ongoing reform
efforts in the financial sector, the option of micro finance institutions' involvement at some later stage is
not excluded.) In addition to experience with this type of operation, the administrative cost the bidder
proposes to charge will be a key criterion in the selection of the implementing entity.
While many of the returning IDPs have the technical skills to operate businesses, they lack the necessary
commercial and financial, managerial skills. One of the key skills, is the proper preparation of business
plans in order to obtain microcredits. Under this sub-component returning IDPs would be able to obtain
small grants in the range of US$150 - US$200 to obtain business training, participate in apprenticeship
programs offered by NGOs and receive help in the preparation of business plans. This component would
be implemented by ARRA following the same approach as for the implementation of microcredits.
Public works, environmental mitigation - US$ 0.4 million
Under this subcomponent funding will be provided for labor-intensive public works projects in small
towns and villages. This component will be implemented by ARRA, which follow an approach similar to
the one for the implementation of microcredits and small grants. ARRA, with the help of local authorities
and assistance from local assistance, will select proposals for high priority public works projects. The
implementation of these projects needs to (a) deal with a problem that, if resolved, would benefit the
community and not specific individuals, and (b) utilize local labor. The cost of each project should not
exceed US$50,000. A competitive tendering process will be followed by ARRA to identify a suitable
NGO or other entity that would manage the physical implementation of these projects.
To eliminate the incentive to collect fuel wood, each of the returning refugee families will be provided
with a cooking plate and a space heater. (The cost of this program is estimated to cost about US$0.9
million, and will be funded by UNHCR.) In addition, agreement has been reached with the Government
that IDPs will receive electricity free of charge for the first year after their return; after that, tariffs will
gradually increase to the level Azenerji charges all consumers.
The second program is the removal and safe disposal of materials containing asbestos. This activity will
be implemented under the housing component.
The implementation of this component will make heavy use of NGOs. A recent survey conducted by the
Gender in Development Unit of Azerbaijan showed that potential resources are being lost by not
matching the expertise of foreign NGOs with the knowledge of local NGOs. Local NGOs have indicated
that they would like to work more closely with foreign NGOs in the implementation of income generating
activities. Assistance will be provided under this component to arrange twinning arrangements between
local and international NGOs for the implementation of income generating activities. The funds would
finance the additional staff of international NGOs or other entities willing to train local NGOs in the
implementation of income generating activities.
Health and education - US$5.1 million
Health - 0.9 million
The main objective of the health component is to strengthen the delivery of primary and preventive care
services in Fizuli, Terter and Agdam, particularly in feldsher/midwife points. However, there will also be
support for core inpatient facilities in these districts. The component will finance a range of investments,
including essential drugs, medical supplies, equipment, and furniture, structural rehabilitation, training
and monitoring and evaluation. There would also be financing of the incremental recurrent costs of
heating for core facilities. The proposed breakdown of cost by subcomponent would be:
27



*  Structural repair and rehabilitation. This would include investments to reduce recurrent
costs, such as metering or insulation. In addition to facilities identified in the Resettlement and
Reconstruction Program, modest rehabilitation of the district hospitals in Terter and Fizuli
would be included.
*  Essential drugs, medical supplies and equipment. The project would provide financing for
drugs consistent with the WHO essential drugs list, possibly further refined based on the
experience of several NGOs and donors who have developed more specific lists under their
own programs. The medical equipment lists are also subject to further review by members of
the health advisory group from donors and NGOs, in order to ensure that only core equipment
needs are met (with close coordination with the Ministry of Health) and that there is an
acceptable balance between the financing of new equipment and of spare parts for existing but
non-operating equipment.
*  Training, capacity building, monitoring and evaluation. Training would be provided in two
core areas: rational prescription practices, and primary care/family medicine, with particular
focus on feldshers and midwives. A second initiative would be to support the establishment of
local health councils in project areas, based on the experience of UNICEF and others. These
councils would help to represent community views on local health services, mobilize
community contributions to feldsher points, and act as focus points for training of community
health promoters who would work informnally in communities to disseminate basic public
health information. The third element of this package would be monitoring and evaluation of
the investments under the component, both in terns of the effective execution of works.
IMPLEMENTATION. With regard to structural repair and the rehabilitation of health care facilities,
ARRA would be responsible for the tendering and procurement of civil works, working closely with local
health authorities and the Ministry of Health. The latter would be consulted in the preparation of the
technical specifications of bids, the selection of bidders and the quality control of the physical
implementation. The preparation of tender specifications would be done on the basis of
Azerpetsprominvest documentation, adapted by ARRA engineers and local health authorities. A local
health coordinator in ARRA would be hired full time to coordinate the roles of various parties and
monitor tender and works execution. Evaluation of bids would be done by a panel consisting of the
ARRA health specialist, a representative of the local health authority designated by the Chief Doctor, the
facility manager, and at least two people from the local health council of the areas concerned.
The procurement of essential drugs, medical supplies and equipment would be carried out by ARRA
in close cooperation with and with detailed inputs from the Ministry of Health and the NGO contracted to
carry out the training subcomponent. The bids would be evaluated by a panel consisting of
representatives from ARRA and the Ministry of Health. The actual distribution of drugs would be
handled by an NGO. The implementation of the subcomponent for training, capacity building as well as
monitoring and evaluation would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding. International NGOs
are the most likely to bid. However, the invitation for bids will contain provisions for use of local staff, so
that national capacity is built.
Education - 4.2 million
The funding under this component complements the extensive support provided by international donors
and NGOs for the reconstruction of schools. The main objective is to increase school attendance. Many
returning IDPs are too poor to purchase school supplies and books for their children. Many of them also
rely on the help of their school age children in agriculture and other income generating activities.
In addition to the educational investments financed under this component, there is a close link to the
housing component, under which teachers are one of the priority groups to be provided with project-
28



financed housing in cases where they do not have their own accommodation presently. Experience from
other areas that are now being relocated (e.g. Horadiz) suggests that this is an important investment in
ensuring that qualified local teachers remain in project areas in cases where they have been displaced as a
result of the conflict. Financing of housing for teachers, doctors and personnel critical for the functioning
of the district administration will be provided on a priority basis under the housing component.
Funding would be provided for the following subcomponents:
*  Structural rehabilitation. The aim of this subcomponent is to finance investments that would
permit the use of schools as a center of the community. Such a multi-functional school model
has not been tried in Azerbaijan, however, the Ministry of Education has given its approval.
*  Supply of learning materials. This would include basic texts, supplementary readers, writing
materials and pedagogical materials.
*  Training, capacity building, monitoring and evaluation. This would cover basic training and
retraining for teachers, training for local education authorities and school principals, teachers
and Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) on the objectives and operational implications of
multifunctional schools, and capacity building with PTAs (including provision for regional
associations of PTAs to share best practices in community involvement in school operations).
This sub-component would also finance monitoring of project investments (including execution
of works, distribution of materials and equipment, and counterpart funding contributions from
Government) and evaluation of changes in educational quality indicators such as student
attendance, educational attainment, and teacher, student, and parental satisfaction with services.
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS. Overall the implementation arrangements would be similar to
those for the health component. ARRA, the line ministry and local authorities would work closely
together in the preparation of the technical specifications in bid documents, the selection of bidders and
the ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the actual physical implementation.
More specifically, ARRA would be responsible for tendering and procurement of civil works, working
closely with local education authorities. The preparation of tender specifications would be done on the
basis of Azerpetsprominvest documentation, adapted by ARRA engineers and local education authorities
and cleared with the Bank. An education coordinator in ARRA would be hired full time to coordinate the
roles of various parties and monitor tender and works execution. Evaluation of bids would be done by a
panel consisting of the ARRA education specialist, a representative of the local education authority, the
school principal, and, if available, at least one parent and one teacher from the PTA of the school
concerned.
Procurement of furniture and equipment would also be managed by ARRA. Local education authorities
would be involved in identifying suitably qualified local suppliers. Bid evaluation will be done by a panel
with similar composition as that for civil works. Identification of needs would be done with reference to
basic furniture and equipment lists already prepared by Azerpetsprominvest in collaboration with the
MOEd, adapted further prior to appraisal in consultations between Bank staff, officials from MOEd and
ARRA, Azerpetsprominvest consultants, and donors and NGOs active in the education sector.
Infrastructure and energy - US$14.5 million
Infrastructure - US$ 2.4 million
While the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh has caused some damage to infrastructure, mostly the water
supply, roads, railways and the telecommunication facilities, the poor condition of these facilities is
largely due to the lack of maintenance after the hostilities had ceased. The repair of infrastructure
facilities is essential to restart economic activity and, as in the other components, funding under this
29



project complements the support provided by other international donors. Support under this component
will focus on three areas:
*  Drinking water supply. Under this subcomponent funding would be provided for the
rehabilitation of wells, pumping stations, water mains, pipes, and provision of spare parts in the
regions of Fizuli, Terter, and Agdam.
*  Transport and telecommunications. This would include support the repairs of the railway
connection to Goradiz, roads, and telephone exchanges and cables in the regions of Fizuli,
Terter, and Agdam.
* Capacity building, monitoring and evaluation. Support would also be provided for the
preparation of detailed designs and work programs for the repair of infrastructure facilities, the
bid documents as well as the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of civil works,
in particular its quality.
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS. Overall the implementation arrangements would be similar to
those for the health and education component. ARRA, the respective line ministries and local authorities
would work closely together in the preparation of the technical specifications for the bid documents, the
selection of bidders and the ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the actual physical implementation, in
particular the quality of civil works and repairs.
Energy - US$12.1 million
Based on the results of the social assessment and observations made during field visits, the rehabilitation
of the power distribution system needs to the receive the highest priority. Without electricity it is not
possible to power the electric pumps which supply drinking water from borehole wells. Electricity is also
needed for cooking and heating. The gas supply system has broken down and, as has been described
above, a large number of the people living the project area is relying on fuel wood for both heating and
cooking.
Azerbaijan has an installed power generating capacity of nearly 5000 MW. A large part of its productive
assets are obsolete and require refurbishment. The disruption of the power trade within the FSU and the
conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh are posing significant constraints to the efficient operation of the power
sector. In addition, most of the thermal power generating capacity was designed to use gas. After the
decision by the Government to halt gas imports from Turkmenistan in 1996, most thermal plants have
shifted to heavy fuel oil. This has reduced the efficiency of these plants, reduced the reliability of power
supply and led to increased emissions of SO2, NO, and fly ash. Azerbaijan's state-owned power
company, Azenerji, has serious difficulties with the procurement of spare parts and maintenance, due to
lack of financing.
The distribution network is generally in poor condition. Overall, transmission and distribution losses are
estimated at about 20% and, in the project area, power supplies are highly unreliable. To deal with these
issues the transmission and distribution system needs to be upgraded and power generation facilities need
to be repaired where necessary and proper maintenance carried out regularly. All of this, will only be
possible, in a sustainable manner, if Azenerji can improve its collections. While the Bank encourages
reforms in the power sector, the focus of this project is to fund investments that would provide the people
living in the project area with reliable power supplies.
As a result of the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, major power transmission lines remain in areas
outside of the Government's control. The main objective of this component is to rebuild the transmission
system for the areas that are under the control of Azerbaijan and to rehabilitate the distribution system.
The investments that will be made under this component will improve power supply beyond the project
area. (It would be impractical to limit it to the selected three raions.) As such this component will benefit
30



the largest number of people - an estimated 365,000 people. To achieve these objectives the following
investments will be made:
For high voltage transmission:
*  19km I10 kV double line
* 35 km 110 kV single line
* 3 transformers 75 MV/Ampere for 110/35/6-10 kV substations
Subtransmission and distribution:
*  30.3km of 35kV single line
*  7 transformers 20.4 MV/Ampere 35/6-10kV
* 159.89 kmn lines of 10kV of aerial lines
* For 6-10 substations: 91 transformers 18.811 MV/Ampere
* 178.4 km 0.4kV
* 2 mobile diesel power station (lx 1.6, lx2.5) 4.1 MW (price per unit cost: $300,000)
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS. The implementation arrangements would be similar to those for
infrastructure. ARRA and Azenerji would work closely together in the preparation of the technical
specifications for the bid documents, the selection of bidders and the ongoing monitoring and evaluation
of the actual physical implementation, in particular the quality of civil works and repairs. Most tenders
will be issued under competitive bidding and, based on the experience with similar contracts financed by
other donors, ARRA expects to receive bids from a large number of foreign bidders. Agreement will be
sought with ARRA at negotiations that new transformers that will be procured under the proposed project
will not contain PCBs, and that old transformers containing PCBs would be properly disposed of.
Institutional Support - US$5.3 million
The above project components are designed to facilitate the voluntary resettlement of about 20,000 IDPs
to three districts, Agdam, Fizuli and Terter. Most components contained also financing to assist in their
implementation, in part through direct assistance, in part through close monitoring and evaluation of the
results that were achieved. In addition, to resettling people, the main objective of this project is to set the
stage for voluntary resettlement of the remaining refugees. The learning experience from the
implementation of this project will be invaluable. It will teach all of us, the Government, the bank and the
other donors and NGOs, how to work most efficiently in this environment. Valuable insights will be
gained on such issues as cost recovery, community participation, alternative approaches to the
implementation of projects (e.g. the comparative advantages of using commercial companies,
international and local NGOs, government agencies), how to ensure transparency and good governance,
technical questions (how to best repair a house, which is 40% destroyed, 80% destroyed etc.) The
concurrent use of more than one approach, technique or strategy for rebuilding houses, involving the
participation of owners and the community, as well as local and perhaps international contractors will
allow us to use this project as a laboratory to find the most efficient and sustainable ways for the
repatriation of the remaining refugees.
However, we can also learn valuable lessons from similar projects in other countries. One of these
lessons is that the key to the successful repatriation of refugees is the existence of effective ;'idigenous
capacity to deal with (i) the demining of the areas affected by a conflict, (ii) the reconstruction of these
areas and finally (iii) the relocation of refugees and their support during the initial period after having
arrived at their homes. The objective of this component is to contribute to the creation of this capacity in
Azerbaijan. It will be done through support to
* ARRA, with the aim to make it an efficient implementing agency of local as well international
reconstruction efforts. Since its establishment in 1996, ARRA has implemented reconstruction
projects worth about US$20 million. Overall, ARRA has shown that it is quite an effective
31



agency when it comes to the reconstruction of houses and infrastructure. The objective of the
assistance provided under this project is to strengthen ARRA's capacity in implementing
construction projects and to build up capacity in areas, such as health and education, the
coordination of assistance from international donors, the monitoring of project implementation
and the interaction with line ministries. Most of this will be accomplished with the help of a
small number of expatriate and local consultants.
* the setting up of a Relocation Agency, which will be responsible for the taking refugees from
camps to their homes and providing them with support for an initial period, most likely one
year.
* the setting up of a Demining Agency, which will be responsible for the identification of mined
areas, the implementation of demining contracts and a mine awareness program.
32



Annex 3
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local                 Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million-------------------
A. Relocation
First phase                                         0.6                                      0.6
Second phase                                        0.5                                      0.5
Third phase                                         0.5                                      0.5
B. Housing
First phase                                         1.8                       1.4            3.2
Second phase                                        2.7                       2.1            4.8
Third phase                                         2.4                       1.9            4.3
C. Income generation
Agriculture                                         2.5                       5.9            8.4
Microcredit and small grant facility                                          1.0            1.0
Public works & environmental mitigation             0.2                       0.2            0.4
D. Health and Education
Health                                              0.2                       0.6            0.8
Education                                           1.3                       2.4            3.7
E. Infrastructure and Energy
Infrastructure                                     1.6                       0.5            2.1
Energy                                             4.8                       6.0            10.8
F. Institutional support
Azerbaijan Recon. & Rehabilitation agency                                    1.4             1.4
Demining Agency                                                              2.7            2.7
Agricultural support                               0.2                       0.2            0.4
PPF                                                0.2                       0.2            0.4
G. Recurrent Costs                                      2.4                                      2.4
Total Baseline Cost                                    21.9                      26.5           48.4
Physical Contingencies                                2.2                       2.6            4.8
Price Contingencies                                   0.4                       0.6            1.0
Total Project Cost                                     24.5                      29.7           54.2
33



Annex 4
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
The immediate beneficiaries of this project are the 20,000 or so IDPs that are expected to return to their
homes. They will receive a basic but comprehensive package of benefits that will not only provide them
with shelter, health care and education for their children, but most importantly help them to earn an
income in the communities they live in. This will strengthen the cohesion of these communities and
reduce the need for family members to commute in order to earn a living. In addition, the project will set
the stage for the repatriation the remaining IDPs and refugees. It will accomplish this in two ways. One, it
will, through this project, provide the authorities in Azerbaijan with a valuable lessons as to the
effectiveness of the support provided to IDPs and the measures that will be used to jump-start economic
activity in the project areas. Second, it will through the establishment of a demining agency and a
relocation agency, as well as through the strengthening of ARRA, provide the institutional framework for
a larger scale repatriation effort.
While achievement of some of these benefits will be subject to considerable risk, there is little doubt that
the 20,000 or so IDPs will be relocated in their former communities and the institutional strengthening
will take place. ARRA has proven that it has the experience to relocate this number of IDPs and the
Government has indicated its willingness to follow through with the proposed process of institutional
strengthening. Most of the risk is associated with the implementation of income generating activities.
While the benefits and risks of this project are reasonably well defined, it is extremely difficult to
quantify them. Since this is generally true for post-conflict reconstruction projects, the 'economic
analysis' of these projects focused on a detailed description of the expected benefits and risks.
This project takes this analysis a step further by assessing the cost effectiveness of the various measures
and project components included in the project. The following table provides a comparison of the cost of
major components (or measures) in this as well as other recent post-conflict reconstruction projects.
While this type of analysis has shortcomings - most notably the fact that various project components are
not homogeneous and therefore not fully comparable - it does indicate that the cost per beneficiary for
most project components is generally in line with similar projects undertaken by the Bank.
34



Cost Effectiveness Comparison
Project Component            Total cost   Estimated No. of   Cost per Direct
(US$)         Direct         Beneficiary
Beneficiaries      (US$)
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Relocation                       1,800,000        19,000             95
Income Generation                1,400,000         8,000            175
Agriculture                      9,400,000        86,000            109
Housing                         14,000,000        19,000            7372
Infrastructure                   2,400,000       365,000              7
Health                             900,000        86,000             10
27 med. facilities  33,333
Education                        4,200,000        20,000            210
44 schools      95,455
Energy                          12,100,000       365,000             33
Comparison Projects
Bosnia Reconstruction Assistance Project
Housing (4,500 apartment units)    15,200,000       22,500          676
Agriculture                        10,200,000       21,000          486
Energy                             15,900,000      200,0003          80
Tajikistan Post-conflict Emergency
Reconstruction Project
Agricultural Support                 600,000         2,750            218
Infrastructure - bridges, roads,   7,000,000       250,000             28
transmission lines, irrigation
Jordan Community Infrastructure Project
Municipal and village infrastructure   32,000,000  1,300,000         25
2Housing costs are estimated at $2,600 per house.
3Beneficiaries are the estimated population of Banja Luka.
35



Project Component             Total cost    Estimated No. of   Cost per Direct
(US$)          Direct         Beneficiary
Beneficiaries      (USS)
Bosnia Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project
Education - repair 70 schools and  25,300,000     70 schools      361,429
build 5 schools4
Vietnam Transmission, Distribution and
Disaster Reconstruction Project
Energy - repair of transmission and    13,000,000  100,000            130
distribution system
Bosnia Emergency Housing Repair Project
Housing - Costs are estimated at
$2,000-$2,500 per apartment for
lightly damaged and structurally sound
buildings.
Bosnia Essential Hospital Services Project
Health - Repair of hospitals and clinics  10,700,000    8 hospitals and 3  972,727
clinical centers
Bosnia Second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project
Education                          9,900,000      18 schools        550,000
Bosnia - Emergency Public Works and
Employment Project
Public Works/Income Generation     2,480,000     100,000 man-         25
months5
Algeria Emergency Reconstruction Project
Education                          2,400,000    repair 10 schools    80,000
and rebuild 26
4 If it was estimated to cost 10 times more to build a school than to repair a school [5(10x) + 70x = 25,300,000], the
repair of each school would be around $211,000.
S Assuming everyone benefiting works for a year, this amounts to approximately $300 per person. These are
temporary jobs; the Pilot Reconstruction Project creates long term employment through small grants and
microcredits for a cost of around $200 per person.
6It is assumed that rebuilding a school cost ten times as much as repairing one.
36



Project Component            Total cost    Estimated No. of   Cost per Direct
(US$)         Direct         Beneficiary
Beneficiaries      (US$)
West Bank and Gaza Education and Health
Rehabilitation Project
Education                        12,000,000   rehear 24 schools   127,6607
& build 7 new
ones
Health                            4,500,000    10 health centers  450,000
Poland Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Water supply, sewerage and drainage    73,000,000  3,200,000         23
Infrastructure - roads and bridges  56,500,000   4,000,000           14
Fiscal Impact
The proposed project would mainly require an increase in the budget allocations for the government
agencies involved in the voluntary resettlement of IDPs and the reconstruction of areas affected by the
conflict over Nagomo-Karabakh, i.e. ARRA, the Demining Agency and the Relocation Agency; subsidies
for the use of essential services (electricity, health care, education); and tax revenues that are expected to
accrue over the implementation period. The subsidies for power reflect the Govemment's decision to
provide returning IDPs with free power during the first year for lighting, cooking and space heating.
Existing tariffs will then be phased in over a 3-5 year period. To contain the risk of further environmental
damage due to the extensive use of fuel wood, the Government has further decided to provide returning
IDPs with free space heaters and cooking plates. The relatively high subsidies for the power sectors
reflect this heavy reliance on electric power. Subsidies for schools and health care are based on the
estimated average use of these facilities by the returning families. Projected tax revenues are based on the
assumption that economic activity will pick up significantly towards the end of the three-year
implementation period.
The following table summarizes the fiscal impact of the project over the three-year implementation
period:
7 It is assumed that it costs ten times as much to build a new school as to rehabilitate an old one: [7(1Ox) + 24=
12,000,000].
37



Fiscal Impact of the Pilot Reconstruction Project, 1998-01
(US Dollars)
1998         1999           2000          2001
ARRA                           75,000       150,000        150,000        75,000
Demnining A                    25,000        75,000         75,000        55,000
Relocation Agency              30,000        60,000         60,000        30,000
Budget support to institutions  130,000     290,000        290,000       165,000
Power                         110,000       540,000        270,000        67,500
Health care                    36,000       180,000         90,000        25,000
Schools                        30,000       150,000         75,000        19,000
Budgetary support for subsidies   176,000   870,000        435,000       111,500
Tax revenues                   15,000        30,000         75,000       120,000
Net fiscal impact             291,000      1,130,000       650,000       156,500
38



Annex 5
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June
(US$ million, 1998)
Implementation Period          Operational Period
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005 
Project Costs
Investment Costs              13.1    15.4    14.6       8.4     8.0      7.0     7.0
Recurrent Costs                0.5      0.7     0.7      0.7     0.6      0.6     0.6
Total                       13.6    16.1    15.3      9.1      8.6     7.6     7.6
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                           44%      50%     26%     22%
Parallel Financing            41%      38%     58%     45%      65%     60%      50%
Government                    15%      12%     16%     33%      35%    40%       50%%
Total                     100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
39



Annex 6
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures.
The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A. Procurement of works, goods and
services of the Bank (IDA) financed components would be procured in accordance with the Bank/IDA
procurement guidelines. The project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance
with the national regulations or the co-financing institutions' procurement regulations. A procurement plan
detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table B. All
other procurement information, including capability of the of the implementing agency, estimated dates for
publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in Table C.
PROCUREMENT CAPACITY. The Azerbaijan Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency (ARRA), assisted by
experienced local advisors (and expatriate individual consultants as needed) is expected to be able to carry
out all procurement activities timely and efficiently through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be set up
at ARRA's premises. The Bank will also try to provide as much procurement training (including hands-on
training) as possible for ARRA/PIU staff involved in implementation of the project. An expatriate consultant
has been hired under the PHRD Grant to assist ARRA with procurement and implementation issues.
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY (PPF). PPFQ0350 in the amount of US$2.0 million, from which US$0.4
million was disbursed, was signed on June 26, 1997, and is being used to finance some project preparation
activities such as technical assistance, procurement of vehicles and ARRA's operations expenses.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Whenever applicable, the appropriate Standard Bidding Documents
issued by the Bank will be used with minimum changes acceptable to the Bank. Domestic suppliers and
contractors will be given a margin of preference in accordance with the Procurement Guidelines.
PARTICIPATION OF GOVERNMENT OWNED ENTERPRISES (GOES) IN PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND
WORKS. GOEs willing to participate in procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank in this project
should meet the Bank's eligibility criteria: they should be financially and legally autonomous and operate
under commercial law in Azerbaijan. Interested GOEs should properly clarify their status before
participating in any bid under this project.
PROCUREMENT OF CIVIL WORKS (US$9.0 MILLION). Civil works are intended to provide an incentive for
the return of internally displaced population to war-tom areas through the reconstruction and rehabilitation
of the most essential basic physical and social and infrastructure objects (irrigation systems, drinking water
facilities, communications, roads, reconstruction of electric power transmission lines).
The following methods of procurement would be used:
*  INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (ICB). Except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, ICB
procedures will be used for works contract estimated to cost above US$400,000. Approximately
US$7.5 million will be procured under this method.
*  NATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING. NCB procedures will be applied for works contracts estimated
to cost below US$400,000, but above US$100,000, up to an aggregate not to exceed US$1.4 million.
Bid invitations will be based on the simplified bidding documents developed in the ECA Region
shall provide a detailed description of the works, including technical specifications, the required
40



completion date, a basic form of agreement and relevant designs and drawings where applicable.
Interested foreign contractors shall be invited to bid.
* PROCUREMENT OF MINOR CIVIL WORKS. Minor civil works contracts with an estimated cost
below US $100,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.2 million may be procured by
requesting at least three price quotations from local prequalified contractors in Azerbaijan.
Simplified bid invitations based on the bidding documents standardized in ECA with the appropriate
changes agreed with the Bank shall provide the necessary description of the works, including
technical specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement and relevant
designs and drawings where applicable. A list of qualified contractors should be formed --and
periodically updated-- by ARRA by requesting at least every six months expressions of interest and
relevant information from local contractors while advertising local minor civil works contract
opportunities. Fixed-price contracts will be awarded to lowest responsive bidders.
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS (US$7.5 MILLION). Agricultural inputs and equipment, equipment for
reconstruction of infrastructure and energy facilities, construction materials, hospital and school supplies,
and textbooks will be grouped to the extent practical to into bid packages costing US$200,000 or above. The
following methods will be used:
*  INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (ICB). Goods contracts estimated to cost above
US$200,000 will be procured through ICB procedures. It is expected that five contracts for
approximately US$7.3 million will be procured under this method. ICB will be used to procure
equipment for schools and hospitals, seasonal agricultural inputs, livestock, and equipment for
reconstruction of energy and infrastructure facilities.
-  INTERNATIONAL SHOPPING (IS). Contracts for heaters and cookers, equipment for energy facilities
and supplies readily available off-the shelf or standard specification commodities estimated to cost
less than US$200,000, but more than US$50,000, up to an aggregate not to exceed US$200,000 may
be procured under IS procedures by obtaining competitive price quotations in sealed envelopes from
at least three suppliers in two different countries.
-  NATIONAL SHOPPING (NS). Contracts for small equipment for reconstruction of infrastructure, etc.
with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and up to an aggregate not to exceed US$50,000 may be
procured through NS by obtaining price quotations from three sources in Azerbaijan.
PROCUREMENT OF SERVICES (US$1.8 MILLION). Contracts for consultants' services will be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers. The services financed under the loan are: project implementation, engineering, design,
bidding document preparation and works supervision, audit, technical assistance, training and studies.
Selection of Consultants and their contracts will be based on the Standard Request for Proposal issued by the
Bank with minimal necessary modifications as agreed by the Bank. Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs) can compete in the selection process, provided that they have expressed their interest in doing so,
and that their qualifications are satisfactory to both the Government and the Bank.
*  SELECTION OF FIRMS. During the project preparation period, a local firm was selected through sole-
sourcing for a US$ 108,000 feasibility study to facilitate donor coordination Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) will be used for selection of firns except for training for NGOs, agricultural
information services and the water user association which will be selected according to Least Cost
(LC) procedures.
* SELECTION OF INDIVIDUALS. Individual consultants for donor coordination, income generation and
housing will be selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment by comparing at least
three CVs from potential candidates.
41



Procurement methods (Table A)
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
*  GOODS AND WORKS: all ICB and single-source procurement will be subject to Bank's prior review
as set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Also the first five NCB contracts
and the first three contracts procured under IS procedures, the first contract procured for minor civil
works and the first contract procured under NS procedures are subject to prior review.
*  CONSULTANTS: All TOR for firms and individuals regardless of assignment value; LOI and award
of contracts to consultant firms above US $100,000, and individuals above US $50,000. All sole-
source contracts.
42



Annex 6, Table A: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                         Procurement Method                 Total Cost (inc.
ICB       NCB        Other       NBF       contingencies)
1. Works
1.1 Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Works          7.5        1.3                    11.3            20.1
(7.5)     (1.3)                                    (8.8)
1.2 Minor Civil Works                                                       0.2                          0.2
(0.2)                       (0.2)
1.3 Housing and Relocation                                                             15.7             15.7
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment and Machinery                          3.1                    0.2         1.2              4.5
(3.1)                 (0.2)                        (3.3)
2.2 Agricultural Inputs                              2.5                                                 2.5
(2.5)                                              (2.5)
2.3 School and Hospital Supplies                      1.7                                                1.7
(1.7)                                              (1.7)
2.4 Office Equipment and Supplies                                                       0.1              0.1
3. Services
3.1 Studies, Project Engineering and Supervision                                        0.2              0.2
3.2 Technical Assistance                                                    0.9 a                        0.9
(0.9)                       (0.9)
3.3 Training                                                                0.9ga                        0.9
(0.9)                       (0.9)
4. Income Generation Activities
4.1 Microcredit and Grant Facility                                          0.4"        0.7              1.1
(0.4)                       (0.4)
4.2 Public Works and Environment                                0.1         0.4 b                        0.4
(0.1)       (0.4)                       (0.4)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 PPF                                                                     0.4                          0.4
(0.4)                       (0.4)
5.2 Operating/Recurrent Costs                                                           2.6              2.6
5.3 Support to Demining Agency                                              0.5b        2.4              3.0
(0.5)                       (0.5)
Total                                                              54.2
Total Bank financed                                                              (20.0)
NBF = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds,
reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
aln accordance with IDA consultant guidelines
bIn accordance with guidelines and budget agreed with IDA
43



Annex 6, Table B Procurement Plan
Description                       Type   Number of   Estimated cost  Procurement   Documents  Invitation   Contract   Contract
slices/items/   w/o conting.   method      submitted to    to bid    signing   completion
subpackages   (in US$ '000)                   Bank
Rehab of HVLs, Agdam                                   CW          1               1,820       ICB           9/98        10/98       2/99       6/00
Reconstruction of substation; transfer power supply - Agdam    CW  1                 965       ICB           8/98         9/98       1/99       7/00
Rehab of HVLs, Terter                                  CW          1                 837       ICB           9/98        10/98       2/99       6/00
Rehab of HVLs, Fizuli                                  CW          1                784        ICB           9/98        10/98       2/99       6/00
Rehab of 69 wells, Agdam                               CW          1                 733       ICB           11/98       12/98       4/99       12/99
Rehab of schools in Terter and Agdam                   CW          1                 606       ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       6/00
Rehab of 42 wells, Terter                              CW          1                468        ICB           2/99         3/99       7/99       12/99
Rehab of irrigation network, Terter                    CW          1                467        ICB           2/99         3/99       7/99       12/99
Pump station reconstruction                            CW          1                250        NCB           12/98        1/99       5/99       8/99
Rehab of Substations in Agdam                          CW          1                220        NCB           11/98       12/98       4/99       12/99
Rehab of substations in Fizuli                         CW          1                 213       NCB           12/98        1/99       5/99       8/99
Rehab of 14 medical institutions, Terter               GW          1                 170       NCB           8/98         9/98      12/98       6/00
Rehab of 8 medical institutions, Fizuli                CW          1                 144       NCB           8/98         9/98      12/98       6/00
Rehab of 5 medical institutions, Agdam                 CW          1                 126       NCB           8/98         9/98      12/98       6/00
Rehab of hydrotechnical facilities, Fizuli             CW          1                  78      MCW            12/98        1/99       5/99       8/99
Asbestos removal, Terter                               CW          1                  56       MCW           1/99         3/99       4/99       6/00
Rehab of substations, Terter                           CW          1                 48       MCW            2/99         3/99       7/99       12/99
Asbestos removal, Fizuli                               CW          1                 48        MCW           9/98        11/98       1/99       4/00
Reconstruction of open distri. board, Agdam            CW          1                  29       MCW           7/98         9/98      11/98       12/99
Asbestos removal, Agdam                                CW          1                   6      MCW            1/99         3/99       5/99       6/00
PCB removal                                            CW          1                 110       NCB           7/98         8/98      12/98       2/00
Equip for rehab of substations, Terter, Agdam & Fizuli  G          1               1,400       ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       6/00
Equipment for 45 schools                                G          1               1,126       ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       6/00
Livestock                                               G          1                700        ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       4/00
Farm machinery and spare parts                          G          1                900        ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       4/00
Equip. for rehab of 111 wells in Terter and Agdam       G          1                 690       ICB           8/98         9/98       1/99       12/99
Seeds                                                   G          1                750        ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       4/00
Fuel                                                    G          1                 300       ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       4/00
Equipment for 27 medical institutions                   G          1                381        ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98        6/0
Fertilizer                                              G          1                 319       ICB           7/98         8/98      12/98       4/00
Heaters and cookers                                     G          1                 174        IS           1/99         2/99       4/99       6/00
Equip for reconstruction of open dist. board, Agdam     G          1                  85        IS           7/98         8/98      11/98       12/99
Equip for pump station reconstruction                   G          1                  22        NS           7/98         8/98      11/98       12/99
44



Description                      Type  NVumber of   Estimated cost  Procurement  Documents  Invitation   Contract   Contract
slices/items!    w/o conting.  method     submitted to   to bid    signing   completion
subpackages  (in US$ '000)                   Bank
Equip. for rehab of irrigation network, Terter         G         1                  14       NS           7/98         8/98      11/98      12/99
Income generation                                     CS         1                 130        I           7/98         8/98      10/98      11/99
Donor coordination                                    CS         1                 130        I           7/98         8/98      10/98      11/99
Housing consultant                                    CS         1                130         I           7/98         8/98      10/98      11/99
Training - agriculture                                TR         1                 125      QCBS          7/98         9/98       1/99       2/01
Training - housing                                    TR         1                220       QCBS          7/98         9/98       1/99       2/01
Training - energy                                     TR                           180      QCBS          7/98         9/98       1/99       2/01
Training - education                                  TR         1                270       QCBS          7/98         9/98       1/99       2/01
Training - NGOs                                       TR         1                 60        LC           6/98         7/98       9/98       3/99
Land registration                                     TA         1                 180      QCBS          8/98         9/98      11/98      10/99
Water user association                                TA         1                 90        LC           12/98        1/99      2/99        2/00
Agriculture information services                      TA         1                 100       LC            8/98        9/98      12/98      10/99
CW = civil works; G = goods; CS = consultant services; TR = training; TA = technical assistance; ICB  International Competitive Bidding;
NCB = National Competitive Bidding; MCW = Minor Civil Works; IS = International Shopping; NS = National Shopping: I = individual consultant;
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection; LC = Least Cost Selection
45



Annex 6, Table Bi: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value           Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category                (Threshold)              Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Works
above 400         ICB                            AlIV7.5
over 100 and below 400   NCB                          TwotO.5
below 100         MCW                            One/. 1
2. Goods
above 200        ICB                             AlIV7.3
over 50 and below 200    IS                          Two/O.15
below 50         NS                             One/0.05
3. Services
N/A            QCBS                   firms above 100/1.2
Three CVs            individuals over 50/0.4
4. Miscellaneous
Microcredit and small grant                        Other                          One/0.4
Public works                                                                    Three/0.2
Demining cost sharing                                                              N/A
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  17.8 (90%)
Notes: ICB - International Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding; MCW - Minor Civil
Works;; IS - International Shopping; NS - National Shopping; QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection
46



Table C
Azerbaijan Pilot Reconstruction Project
Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element                               ICB                  NCB                    IS                NS           Consultants     Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds  US$200,000 goods  between US$400,000   between US$200,000   US$50,000       N/A
US$400,000 works     & US$100,000 works   & US$50,000 goods    goods
2. Prior Review                All                  First five           First three           First one      firms>US$100,000
indiv>US$50,000
3. Ex-post Review              [Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism.]
12% ex-post review with assistance of a Bank procurement staff or a consultant during supervision
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
4. Brief statement             A full-time procurement position in ARRA has been filled and will continue through the project implementation period. Besides,
ARRA will hire a procurement consultant during project preparation to provide procurement assistance, training and advice to staff
involved in procurement under contracts fmanced by the Bank. Also training was carried out by Bank staff participating in the pre-
appraisal appraisal mission to maxinize opportunities for hands-on learning.
5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper  6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year
status: Under preparation                                                   [ready by negotiations? No - Bid documents are being prepared.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project   8. Estimated date of    9. Indicate if contracts are   10. Domestic Preference for Goods  11. Domestic Preference for Works,
Launch Workshop                publication of General  subject to mandatory SPN                                 if applicable
Procurement Notice    in Development Business   Yes.                             Yes.
9/15/98.                       6/15/98              No.
12. Retroactive financing.   No.                                             13. Advanced procurement      No.
14. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: ARRA has been equipped with computers and software to be able to track and record
procurement implementation. All procurement requests are addressed by the procurement staff working in ARRA. Monthly progress reports will regularly be sent to the
Bank to update procurement implementation progress.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
15. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of the Project Team responsible for the procurement in the project:
Name: Gultekin Yuksel                                      Extension: 38078
16. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: A member of the WB Baku's Resident Mission staff would interact with the Team Leader and will
act as the ARRA's primary liaison to review procurement documents for completeness and submit them for transmittal to headquarters through the Bank's pouch service.
This staff would also participate in all supervision missions, and alert the Project Team Leader to any procurement-related issues regarding the project.
47



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (TableD)
The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of three years and the project would be
completed by June 30, 200 1. The closing date of the Bank loan would be December 31, 2001
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for works, goods and
consultants' services contracts costing below the prior review thresholds.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, a US$1.5 million Special Account will
be established. The Government will establish, maintain and operate the special account under
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount           Financing Percentages
(US$million)
Civil Works                        7.1                   100%
Consultant services and training"/  2.1                   100%
Microcredits                       0.4                    100%
Grants                             0.3                    100%
Equipment and materials            6.1      100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory) and
85% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
PPF                                 1.5                   100%
Unallocated                        2.5
Total     20.0
1/ This includes the support to the demining agency.
48



Annex 7
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned (final PCD stage)     Actual
$417,700             $743,000
B. Project Schedule                           Planned (final PCD stage)      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               18                    22
First Bank mission (identification)2                  9/2/1996              9/2/1996
Appraisal mission departure                          9/15/1997              4/8/1998
Negotiations                                          11/1997               4/23/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          2/1998               6/30/1998
Prepared by: Azerbaijan Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency
Preparation assistance: US$2 million PPF (Q0350), US$1.3 million PHRD Grant (TF029676 - Bank
executed:, TF029472 - Government executed)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Peter Pollak                              Task Team Leader
Jonathan Brown                            Co-Task Team Leader
Mark Rodeski                                     IFC
Jan Drozdz                                  Infrastructure
Phillip O'Keefe                             Health/Education
Bulent Ozbilgin                             Social Assessment
Brenda Pilgrim                               Team Assistant
Kenan Najafov                            Resident mission support
Trish Hackmnan                                 Consultant
Nara Luvsen                               Income Generation
T.V Sampath                                   Agriculture
S. Janakiram                                 Agriculture
Jose Martinez                                Procurement
Alcira Kreimer                               Peer Reviewer
Didier Laye (UNHCR)                             Peer Reviewer
Raphaelle Mathey, Maureen O'Brien, Richard Price             UNHCR Staff
The staff working on this project would like to dedicate their efforts to the first task manager, Salem Ouahes, who
died in November 1997.
'Actual amnount includes $283,700 from Trust Funds which was not included in the original plan.
2 The project identified initially by the World Bank was funded by the EU on a grant basis.
49



Annex 8
Pilot Reconstruction Project
Documents in the Project File*
1. Project Implementation Plan
2. Feasibility Study for the Resettlement and Reconstruction Program of the Liberated Areas
3. Emergency Mine Clearance Program for Azerbaijan
4. Decree of the President of the Azerbaijan Republic on approval of the Edict on the State
Commission for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of areas of Republic of Azerbaijan that
had been occupied and therefore damaged.
5. Social Assessment: Pilot Reconstruction Project
6. Internally Displaced People -- Social Assessment Results and Implications: Pilot
Reconstruction Project
7. Back to Office Report - Engineered Infrastructure and Environment
8. Pilot Reconstruction Project: Agriculture Program
9. Review of the United Nations Shelter Sector Program for Internally Displaced People in the
Caucasus
10. Follow-up on Procedures and Programs for the set up of the Azerbaijan Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Agency (ARRA)
11. Complex Technical Evaluation of the Damage made to Vital Objects in the Territory of
Azerbaijan
12. Republic of Azerbaijan ARRA Technical Evaluation of Physical Damage of the
Infrastructure in the Territories Occupied, Volumes 1 and 2
13. Health and Nutrition Survey of Internally Displaced and Resident Population of Azerbaijan
14. Sector Analysis Report - Engineered Infrastructure and Environment
15. Detailed descriptions of each project component
50



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference bit
Oexpected & actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                               Original Amount in US$ Millions      disbursements al
Project ID    Credit No.   Year      Borrower            Purpose       IBRD    IDA    Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: I
Active Loans
AZ-PE-41261  IDA29780    1998   Rep. Of Azerbaijan   SAC                 0.00   70.00       0.00         35.49      35.26     0.00
AZ-PE-40544  IDA29330    1997   Azerbaijan Republic  Farm Pnvatization    0.00    14.70     0.00         12.44       3.98     0.00
AZ-PE-8287   IDA29230    1997   Azerbaijan Republic  Gas Rehab           0.00    20.20      0.00         18.10       1.37     0.00
AZ-PE-8283   IDA27690    1996  Azerbaijan Republic  Institution Building   0.00    18.00    0.00         9.14        2.19     0.00
AZ-PE-8282  IDA27080    1995  Govt Of Azerbaijan  Petroleum TA           0.00   20.80       0.00         15.75       8.88     0.00
AZ-PE-8288   IDA27510    1995   Govt Of Azerbaijan   Baku Water Supply   0.00   61.00       0.00         34.14      17.87     0.00
Total                                                                    0.00   204.70      0.00         125.06     69.55     0.00
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  65.94               61.42              127.36
of which has been repaid:                      0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 204.70               65.00              269.70
Amount sold:                                      0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid:                                 0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed:                              125.06                0.00              125.06
IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                       lFC
FYApproval               Company             Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic       Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997/98             Baku Coca Cola                10.50        2.30      0.00       0.00     10.50       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                    10.50        2.30      0.00      0.00      10.50      0.00       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998                ATOIL                          5.25        1.31      0.00       0.00
1998                AZERB. JV BANK                 0.00        1.00      0.00       0.00
1998                SEF ARKOBANK                    .80        0.00      0.00       0.00
1998                SEF AZDEMIRYOL                 1.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                SEF AZERIGAZBANK                .80        0.00      0.00       0.00
1998                SEF RABITABANK                  .80        0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            8.65        2.31      0.00       0.00
51



Annex 10
Azerbaijan at a glance                                                              8/28197
sune" &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Condil     Low-
Aerbaijan      Asi   Incom        Dsvelopnmnt diamond*
Population mid-1998 (rntlfios)                         7.6      479    3 229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             480      2,180     500 US oeotancy
GNP 1996 (bWllIons US$)                                3.6     1,043    1,601
Average annua growth, 19f9-8-
Population (I)                                         1.0       0.3      1.7     G                               G
Laborforce (%)                                         1.7       0.5      1.7     GNP              -pmary
Most reent astmate (ltest year avaiable    1989)                                 capIta                      enrollmen
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total pputaon)                  56        65       29
Life expectancy at bi  (years)                         70        68       03
Infant mortalIty (pet 1,000ivo birhs)                  25        26       69
Child malnutftion (% of chlldntn under5)                                                  Access to safe
Access to safe water (% of popuiation)                  ..        ..      53
Illiteracy (% of popuaion age 154)                      3                 34
Gross primary enrolrment(  of school-agepopulatoN)    117        97      105           -     Azarbaan
Male                                                120        97      112                 Lowincome group
Female                                              115        97       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995    1996
Economi aftios'
GDP ?bi0llons US$)                              .       ..       3.8      3.7
Gross domest hnvestmenttGDP                    ..       ..      14.1     25.2             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..      ..       28.8     22.3
Gross domestic savingVsGDP                     ..       ..      -2.5      50
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       ..       0.3      5.6
Current account balance/GDP                    ..       ..    -10.1    -18.2
Interest payrnentGDP                           ..      ..        0.2       ..    Savings                      Investmen
Total debl/GDP                                 ..       ..       8.5                                                   t
Total debt service/exports                     ..       ..      11.2
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..       7.4
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..        ..       ..                 Indebtedness
1975485  19866      1995       1996  199745
(average annual growuh)                                                                      AzerbsiJn
GDP                                   ..   -15.0    -13.3        1.2    12.1
GNP per capita                        ..   -15.9    -14.1       -1.4     10.0                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and servIes          ..       ..    -7.5       -0.1     20.3   _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(16 of GDP)                                 1975    1985       1995    1996        Owth rtes of output and Investmnt(%)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      23.0    22.9      150
Industry                                       ..       ..      19.3    19.2       s0
Manufacturng                                 ..       ..      19.3    17.9        0                               /
Services                                       ..       ..      57.7    57.9
Private consumption                            ..       ..      92.5    88.0    *.100
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..      10.0      9.0                -GDI          0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..       43.4    42.4
1975-5  198664       1995    1996t
(average annual growth)                                                           Grt rate of exuort and Imporls (%)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      -0.7    -0.2      3o
Industry                                       ..      ..    -14.3    -0.2
Manufacturing                                ..       ..    -14.3    -7.3       o0
Services                                       ..       ..    -17.2       2.3     10
PIvate consumption                             ..       ..      50.0    -3.8
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..    -70.7       9.5       .    rn    r4
Gross domestic Investment                      ..       ..     -0.7      84.8    -10
Imports of goods and servkes                   ..       ..      20.8     18.7                  EN         *-Import
Gross national product                         ..   -1.0       -13.5    -0.4              -        t       I
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estImates. Figures In Italsareforyamra otherthawthoe specid.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared wI Its inonme-group avere. If data are missing, the diamond wll
be Incomplete.
52



Annex 10
Azerbaian
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     19S5      1995    190l
Domestic prices                                                                   InflafUon (%)
(% change)                                                                       2,000
Consumer prices                                 .        .     411.7    24.6    1,500 .
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..    808.7    20A        1,000
Government finance                                                                s         /
(% of GDP)                                                                          o      r           ,
Current revenue                                .        .       14.3    13.3              91   02   93   94   95   99
Current budget balance                                  .       -0.3    -2.7               -    GOP df.  --C
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -4.1     -3.8
TRADE
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                      *      611       571     1,500
Petroleum products 'old'                                        83       55
Cotton                                                 .       110       97
AJIothergoods            -.                            ..      418      428      1000
Total imports (cif)                                             955    1,044
Food                                         ..        .         .        .       r
Fuel and energy                               .
Capital goods                                 ::      ::        ::        :L
Export pfice index (1987=100)                                                           90  91  92  93  94  95  99
Import price index (1987=100)                  ,.                           .E axports  in Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ,.
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1965      1995     199i
(millions USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  .        .       783      757      10
Imports of goods and services                                  1,267    1,443
Resource balance                                                484      -688
Net income                                                        6       6 
Net current transfers                                            ill      80          90  91  92          L ss
Current account balance,                                                          40                            _
before official capital transfers                             -379     -688
Financing items (net)                               .           553      631
Changes in net reserves                                         -174      35    -20
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (mill. USS)            ..       ..      263      300
Conversion rate (local/USS)                                  3,429.9  4,305.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Composituon of total debt 1995 (mIll. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                            321 .3
IBRD                                                  .,        0        0                      G     a
IDA                                          .                 30       64                      12
Total debt service                                      ,,        10
IBRD                                          .       .         0        0
IDA                                                                      0  0      a
107                      C
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               101
OfficW grants                                ..                58
Official creditors                                    .       102
Private creditors                                     .,        0
Foreign direct investment                                      110                            D
Portfoio equity                              .                  0                             71
World Bank program
Commitnents                                   .        .       165      20      A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 .                30       36      B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Pivate
Principal repayments                          .        .        0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fows                                                       30       38
Interest payments                             .       ..        0        0
Net transfers                                ..       ..       30       35
Development Economics                                                                                              8/28/97
Note: Estimates for economIes of the former Soviet Union are subjet to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
53



Annex 11
Summary of Social Assessment
Currently, more than 20% of the territory of Azerbaijan is occupied by Nagorno-Karabakh forces. In
addition, ten districts of the country, five of which are part of the Autonomous Nakhichevan Republic,
were directly affected by military action. About 20,000 Azeris were killed during the hostilities which
also caused extensive damage to the environment. Most forests in conflict affected areas are cut down;
fertile soils and agricultural lands also became unusable. Housing and basic infrastructure facilities in
these regions were also largely destroyed during the hostilities.
The effects of the conflict were disastrous for a large number of people. About 285,000 people (53,200
families) became refugees because of the war. In addition, 610,000 people (144,700 families) have been
internally displaced and scattered over a wide range of territory. They have remained in these areas for
the past four years under varying circumstances, living with the uncertainty and degradation associated
with displacement. Most of their home areas are still under occupation by the Nagorno-Karabakh forces
and it is unclear when they will be able to go home.
The objective of the social assessments, carried out during 1996 and 1997, were to: (a) examine the
situation of the internally displaced people (IDPs) living in and around the liberated zones; and (b) initiate
a process of consultation with the intended beneficiaries of the voluntary resettlement and reconstruction
effort to help identify the most appropriate types of assistance. The social assessment involved
quantitative and qualitative methodologies and built on earlier surveys conducted in the past two years
with the larger IDP population.
Main Findings
The following are the most important findings of the social assessment process that have implications for
voluntary resettlement and reconstruction.
*  IDPs are among the poorest of poor with widespread unemployment. IDPs in urban areas such as
Baku have higher levels of employment as compared to the displaced in camps. The average
monthly household income among IDPs is about the equivalent of US$105, compared to the
national average of about US$200 (based on 1997 World Development Report estimate). Many
of them receive assistance from international organizations, but aid covers a small portion of
needs.
*  Community integrity varies among displaced people. Most IDP communities which were close to
each other before displacement are currently scattered. The family structure is still somewhat
intact among the IDPs but a gradual decrease in family integrity is observed as people spend time
in displacement. Before displacement 96 percent of the families surveyed had large households in
which many relatives lived together. This portion is now 85 percent.
*  Overall access to information is inadequate in IDP communities. In most cases, people rely on
rumors rather than official news regarding relocation and reconstruction activities.
* IDPs trust the Government to solve their problems. More than 70 percent have faith in the
Government to cope with relocation and rehabilitation problems. IDPs do not make a clear
distinction between the various international organizations involved in the reconstruction effort.
They often regard these only as distributors of humanitarian aid and not as not participants in the
reconstruction activities.
Priorities
* Security and safety are the most important issues for returning IDPs, however, priorities change
after repatriation. Mine clearance is an important component of the voluntary resettlement
process for many IDP families. Ninety-six percent of the IDPs nonetheless wish to return their
54



home areas once it becomes possible. Once they return, housing becomes the most important
priority (96 percent). Extended periods of displacement, coupled with more favorable economic
conditions especially in large urban areas, discourage about 4 percent of the IDPs from
repatriating.
*  There are significant regional variations in the demand for reconstruction due to various levels of
damage in different regions. Ninety-seven percent of the potential retumees indicate that they can
be involved in reconstruction of their homes.
*  Most IDP households do not have the necessary start-up capital for private business or for
sustaining themselves immediately after repatriation. Main factors which prevent IDPs from
engaging in entrepreneurial activities are the lack of initial capital, their inexperience and lack of
confidence.
*  Food supply is likely to become an important problem for repatriated households, therefore, in
connection with income generating activities, support to agriculture, including kitchen gardens, is
important.
*  IDPs have inadequate access to infrastructure services such as water and power. Heating
conditions also need urgent improvement. The majority of the IDPs (60.7 percent) use wood for
heating.
*  Educational activities need to start soon after repatriation. Most IDPs (60.4 percent) have a
varying number of school and pre-school age children in their families. For these families,
creation of an adequate education system will become a priority as they return to the liberated
areas. There are professional teachers among IDPs who can be employed in these schools.
Implications
*  Support job creation and income generation. The findings of the social assessment suggest that
the following types of interventions should be considered in providing assistance in the
reconstruction process: (i) micro-credit schemes; (ii) training; (iii) agriculture and related
activities; and (iv) small scale textiles.
* Support housing improvements and repair physical infrastructure. The IDPs who have returned to
their homes expressed a need for a range of home improvements. It is important to involve IDPs
in reconstruction of their homes and in public works programs. Rehabilitating basic productive
infrastructure also will facilitate income generation and benefit the reconstruction process as a
whole. This infrastructure includes water supply and irrigation systems which are particularly
appropriate for a participatory community-based approach because they benefit and affect all
members, require a great amount of local knowledge, and can be labor intensive.
*  Provide assistance to IDPs in self-help solutions. There currently is a need to assist the IDPs in
moving away from aid-dependency and toward more comprehensive self-help options to promote
sustainability on both personal and community levels.
*  Initiate mine removal programs. To help ensure safety for repatriated IDPs, a high priority should
be placed on identifying areas for housing, social, and physical infrastructure and economic
activities that are secure from mines.
*  Improve access to information. Outside Baku, reliance on the mass media is low. Consequently,
it is important to incorporate an information/communication component into the reconstruction
effort, taking into account the need to mobilize personal communications channels.
Representative local leaders identified by the communities themselves should play important
functions such as ensuring greater access to reliable information and contributing to targeting and
management of assistance programs in both the short and longer terms.
*  Identify and support mechanisms for temporary land allocation. A major obstacle for the
displaced population in terms of being able to engage in productive activities is their lack of
access to available land for agricultural activities. Appropriate mechanisms for the temporary
55



allocation of land to IDPs should be identified and supported to break the cycle of dependency
before it can jeopardize the successful return of IDPs to their work once their home territories
become liberated.
* Protect the environment. During the reconstruction phase, current pressure on the environment is
likely to increase in the areas where people rely heavily on firewood for energy. To avoid
excessive depletion of forest resources, there is a need to identify and put in place alternative
sources of energy such as space heaters operating on electricity.
* Strengthen government institutions and civil society, including capacity for resource
mobilization. The establishment of ARRA as the central coordination unit appear very much in
line with expectations of the people for a strong government leadership in the reconstruction
effort.
56



Annex 12
Implementation Support Component
Azerbaijan Resettlement And Rehabilitation Agency
ARRA 's Role
The Azerbaijan Resettlement and Rehabilitation Agency (ARRA) will have the overall responsibility
for the implementation of the proposed Pilot Reconstruction Project. ARRA was established on July 12,
1996 through a Presidential Decree (#471) as the executive body of the State Commission of (the)
Azerbaijan Republic on Rehabilitation and Reconstruction. The Commission has the overall
responsibility for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the areas affected by the conflict over Nagorno-
Karabakh. ARRA's main responsibilities and functions include:
* the preparation of damage assessments for the areas affected by the conflict over Nagorno-
Karabakh;
*  the preparation of annual reconstruction and rehabilitation programs;
*  proposals of appropriate implementation arrangements for the reconstruction and rehabilitation
programs;
* coordination of the support provided by international donors and to mobilize additional funds for
the implementation of reconstruction and rehabilitation programs;
* coordination of its activities with those of governmental and non-governmental organizations and
financial institutions;
*  preparation of technical assistance programs to assure that the agencies involved in the
implementation of the reconstruction and rehabilitation programs have the necessary skills;
*  direct responsibility for the reconstruction of industrial and social buildings through
competitively selected organizations;
d  selection of investment projects as well as the administration and monitoring of programs and
projects and activities approved by the Commission and financed by international donors; and
* appointment of consultants from non-governmental organizations to carry out engineering and
construction supervision in areas that fall outside the purview of existing Ministries or at the
demand from the public.
More specifically, with regard to the implementation of the Pilot Reconstruction Project ARRA will have
the following functions:
*  overall project coordination, monitoring and progress reporting. In implementing the project
components ARRA will work closely with the respective line ministries;
*  direct implementation responsibility for the housing component and the micro-credit, grant as
well as public works subcomponents;
*  procurement of all goods, works and services;
*  management of funds, verification of payment requests, proper maintenance of bank accounts
and project records; and
*  audit of project accounts and preparation of the project completion report
Organization and Staffing
Up to now ARRA has successfully implemented reconstruction and rehabilitation projects worth about
US$20 million. In view of the proposed Pilot Reconstruction Project, ARRA has decided to expand its
staff and restructure its organization. In the new organization, which is shown diagrammatically in Figure
1, there will a greater delegation of power from the Executive Director to the "Operations Manager" and
the "Manager for Investment Planning and Projections". In addition, ARRA open and or expand its
regional offices in the raions where the project will be implemented, Fizuli, Agdam, Terter and
57



Nakhchivan. This together with the considerable increase in staff should enable ARRA to implement the
proposed project in line with the schedule shown in the Project Implementation Plan.
In addition to the Administration Unit, the Operations Finance Unit, the Operations Procurement Unit and
a Project Planning Unit, ARRA will have three sectoral units: Industrial and Civil Engineering,
Infrastructure, and Income Generation. Oversight over and intensive support to the procurement and
contracting activities carried out by the three sectoral units. The Operations Finance Unit will be
responsible for the management of all financial transactions relating to the project, including operating
the Special Account, preparing withdrawal applications for the World Bank, open letters of credit,
management of the local bank account, authorizing and making of project-related payments, maintenance
of comprehensive financial project records, compliance with financial reporting requirements by the
Bank and other cofinancing donors, arranging for annual audits of project accounts. The Project Planning
Unit will be responsible for progress reporting to the Bank, donors and the Government, including
preparation of the progress completion report.
Table 1 summarizes ARRA's current staffing plan. While most of the staff will be local staff, it includes
plans for the hiring of additional expatriate consultants. (ARRA employs currently two expatriate staff.)
Financing for the expatriate staff comes from UNDP, a PHRD grant and the credit for the proposed
project. The costs of the local staff will be financed out of budgetary resources.
Chart 1: Organization of ARRA
Consultnt for Operations,  Diredor  Consultant to Coordinate
Financial Management                International Donors
and Procurement
Chid Accountant           Investments Pianning                       Operations Manager  Foreign Investmnent  Information Manager
Manager                                                  Manager
Operations Finance   Adninistrator    Projed Planring  Energy and  Infrastnicture  Incore  Operations &  Programmer
Acaountant                  Specialist     Irrigation   Specialist    Generation   Procurement
.   . . _  Specialist  l   Specialist    Specialist
Monitorng Offices
58



Table 1: Staffing Plan for ARRA
ARRA 's Staff                     Local   Expatriate      Duration
Headquarters staff
Director                                               I
Investment Planning Manager                            I
Operations Manager                                     I
Information Manager                                    I
Operations and Procurement Specialist (Senior Engineer)  I
Chief Accountant                                       I
Administrator                                          I
Operations, Financial Management and Procurement                  1       24 man-months
Consultant
Consultant for Coordination of International Donors               1       24 man-months
Demining consultant                                               1       24 man-months
Income generation consultant                                      1       24 man-months
Foreign Investment Managerl/                           I
Operations Finance Accountant 1/
Planning Specialist 1/                                 1
Energy and irrigation specialist                       I
Income generation specialist                           I
Infrastructure Specialist                              1
Interpreter 1/
Driver i/
Interpreter                                            1
Secretary                                              1
Technician                                             2
Drivers                                                3
Guards                                                 4
Fizuli Office
Technical supervisor                                   I
Guard of Horadiz office                                I
Nakhchivan Office
Technical supervisor                                   1.
Terter Office
Technical supervisor 21                                1
Agdam Office
Technical supervisor 2/                                1
Notes:  1/ Position has been advertised and candidates have been identified
2/ Position will be established after approval of the proposed project
59



Annex 13
Partnership
The Azerbaijan Resettlement and Reconstruction Program aims to provide returning IDPs and those who
have already returned to liberated areas with a comprehensive package of assistance for voluntary
resettlement, social and physical infrastructure, and income generating activities. Normally voluntary
resettlement and reconstruction are financed by different donors, sometimes leading to mismatches in
providing assistance to affected people. In the case of Azerbaijan, UNHCR and the World Bank have
worked together in partnership to assist the Government to put together one program for voluntary
resettlement and reconstruction and to maximize donor coordination and cooperation to ensure that
affected people receive support when they need it, as identified through a process of social assessment
and stakeholder participation.
The partnership between UNHCR and the World Bank began with the process of social assessment to
identify the priorities of IDPs and of damage assessment to establish what had been destroyed in the years
of civil strife. A World Bank mission in October/November 1997, in which UTNHCR participated, agreed
with Government on the terms of reference for a feasibility study for a first-phase Resettlement and
Reconstruction Program for the liberated areas. It was also agreed that Government would establish a
number of sector working groups, composed of representatives of government agencies, affected peoples,
national and international NGOs, local specialists, and donors to define sector strategies and investment
programs evolving out of the priorities identified by the social assessments and the amount of funding
which could be reasonably assembled. UNHCR took the lead in establishing the relocation/housing
working group in December 1997 while the World Bank and other organizations supported other working
groups. In February 1998 a joint UNHCRIWorld Bank mission reviewed with the working groups the
results of their work which had been incorporated into an overall $100 million Resettlement and
Reconstruction Program. This program was presented to International Advisory Group (IAG), composed
of donors and international NGOs, at a meeting in March 1998 chaired by the Group's co-chairmen, the
European Commission, the UNDP and the World Bank. UNHCR and the World Bank presented their
institutions' views on the program at the IAG meeting. Subsequently, UNHCR has assisted the World
Bank in preparing its documentation for future approval by the World Bank Board of Directors of a
proposed IDA Credit to support the program; a UNHCR staff member was a peer reviewer for the Bank
project. World Bank staff have also reviewed the technical aspects of the UNHCR appeal and have been
asked by UNHCR to assist with the identification of possible sources of funding. UNHCR and the World
Bank, along with UNDP, have worked together to assist Government to put in place appropriate
institutional arrangements for implementing the Resettlement and Reconstruction Program. In this regard,
both IJNHCR and the World Bank have been collaborating with TNDP which has taken on the
responsibility of helping Government to prepare the proposed Demining Agency and to raise funds for its
first years of operations.
It is the intention of UNHCR and the World Bank to continue their partnership during the implementation
of the Resettlement and Reconstruction Program through further joint missions to assess progress and to
assist Governrment in expanding its program of assistance when the status of the currently occupied
territories changes.
60



45
RUSSIAN
G E 0 R G I A                                 .8alaken                   FEDERATION
Zugatola,4,,,
0                                                             0
42                                                                                                  Guba0
gz
0 0 4
Mi
Gazakl
Tog L)t27z,,_
0,
Jsmailly La,i,h
oGendie  Mingec                   CIY
oShomakhy
myusyusl OAkhsu
0        Yu
ARME                                                                         0                                 0 Kurdemir
dAghdere
oKe[6eier
Aghiabdi-IJ
Cqhdm         0                                              Ali-Bayramly
Stepanakert(
F-
OShousha
Lachin
"I  I     IHv,,V_,,                 0                                                                                Solyan
Kara6aglaw                                                                                                           r
0                                       Z
T                                                   jzz
Nokhchevan NE
C61fa
rdymly
RU551AN
Lerik                                                  FEVERAPON
)SLAMJC REPUBLIC OF )RAN
T V R KF
k,
10
7                                                                                                                                                                                                                           U,
-SYRlAMARMREPr' IRAII ISLAMIC REP. Of IRAN ljl



