Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Credit Number 3109-1 AZ 
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Reconstruction Project)
between
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 9, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3109-1 AZ 
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 9, 1999, between AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Pilot Reconstruction Project ) dated August 7, 1998 (the Development 
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of (a) micro-projects to support the rehabilitation 
of small-scale infrastructure; (b) support for micro-enterprises; and (c) 
institutional support for the Social Fund for the Development of Internally Displaced 
Persons (SFDI) by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit 
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,400,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
addition of a new Subsection (2) as follows:
Page  2
"(z)
‘Amending Agreement’ means this agreement amending the   
Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,300,000), being the sum 
of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit, with each withdrawal valued by 
the Association as of the date of such withdrawal.  The Credit shall be in two 
tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to fourteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
14,900,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche being an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 7,400,000)."
Section 1.03.  In Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, the 
following new paragraph (c) is added:
"(c)  Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account, or made subject to a 
special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
initially be charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been 
exhausted, and shall thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche." 
Section 1.04.  In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Closing 
Date is amended to read March 31, 2003.
Section 1.05.  A proviso is added at the end of subsection 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Second Tranche 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.06.  Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project and, to this end, shall carry Part G of the Project 
through SFDI with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and environmental 
practices, and shall provide to SFDI promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part G of the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
ARRA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the ARRA Project 
Agreement all the obligations of ARRA therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARRA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available as a grant the proceeds of the 
First Tranche allocated from time to time to Categories in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to ARRA under a subsidiary 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ARRA (the Subsidiary 
Agreement), on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof."
Section 1.07.  Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
Page  3
"Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for Parts 
C, D, E, and G of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement."
Section 1.08.  Section 3.10 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read: "Section 3.10.  The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Parts C, D, E and F of the Project shall be carried out by ARRA pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement."
Section 1.09.  A new Section 3.11 is added to the Development Credit Agreement 
as follows:
"Section 3.11 (a) the Borrower shall, with the assistance from ARRA, set 
up a financial management system for SFDI, satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) provide training to SFDI staff in the Association’s procurement procedures 
with 
assistance from ARRA; and (c) to the extent possible, the senior 
executive positions of SFDI shall be staffed with personnel from ARRA."
Section 1.10.  A new Section 3.12 is added in the Development Credit Agreement 
as follows:
"Section 3.12.  The Borrower shall employ an environmental specialist to 
ensure that the screening, evaluation and monitoring of all micro-projects 
under Part G of the Project are implemented in accordance with the Guidelines 
of the 
Bank."
Section 1.11.  Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is revised to 
read as follows:
"Section 4.01. (a) the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part G of 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles Consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by such auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  4
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals."
Section 1.12.  Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Annex to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.13.  In Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, a new 
paragraph G is added as follows, and the Project Completion Date is revised to 
"September 30, 2002";
"Part G.
1.  Carrying out micro-projects to support the rehabilitation of small-scale 
infrastructure.
2.
Provision of support for micro-enterprises through credits for setting 
up small-scale businesses, and training and technical assistance to the 
micro-entrepreneurs.
3.
Provision of institutional support to the Social Fund for the 
Development of Internally displaced persons in Azerbaijan (SFDI) through 
acquisition of equipment, provision of vehicles; provision of operating costs, 
provision of training and technical assistance for monitoring and evaluation".
Section 1.14.  In Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, paragraph 1 
(a) is amended to read:
"(a)  The term "eligible categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), 
(4), (5), (8) and (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement".
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: (a) 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; (b) the Board 
of Directors for SFDI has been established; (c) The Managing Director for SFDI has 
been appointed; (d) Operational Manual for SFDI has been furnished to the Association; 
and (e) an integrated accounting system (including MIS) satisfactory to the 
Association has been set-up and a technical advisor has been appointed.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished to Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of Counsel acceptable to the Association showing on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has ben duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01. of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written.
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Ali Shamil oglu Hasanov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tevfik Yaprak 
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia Region
ANNEX
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amount of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit (Second
Credit (First
Tranche Allocated
Tranche Allocated
   % of
(expressed in (expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   5,200,000
   5,270,000
100%
(2)
Consultants’ services  300,000
   1,560,000
100%
and training
(3)
Microcredits under    
--
     300,000
100% (of amounts
Part C.5 of the 
disbursed)
Project
(4)
Sub-grants under 
--
     230,000
100% (of amounts
Part C.6 of the
disbursed)
Project
(5)
Equipment and 
      150,000    4,530,000
100% of foreign
materials
expenditures, 100% 
of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and  
85% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(6)
Refunding of Project 
--
   1,120,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of this Agreement
(7)
Micro-enterprise      1,550,000
--
100%
(8)
Operating costs
      200,000
--
75%
(9)
Unallocated
--
   1,890,000 
Page  6
TOTAL
    7,400,000   14,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "training" means training activities (other than consultants’ 
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the travel cost and per diem 
of the trainees; and 
(d)
"operating costs" means office equipment for SFDI.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, unless the Microcredit has been made in accordance with the procedures and 
on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; and (c) under Category (4) of the table set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Sub-grant has been made in accordance with 
paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) for works under contracts costing less than 
$400,000 equivalent; (c) for services for consulting firms under contracts costing 
less that $100,000 equivalent; (d) for services for individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (e) all operating costs, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
