Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3109 AZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Reconstruction Project)
between
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 7, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3109 AZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1998, between AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Azerbaijan Reconstruction and 
Rehabilitation Agency (ARRA) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ARRA the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement;
(C)
The Borrower intends to contract from other donor sources a grant or 
grants (the Additional Grants) in an amount equivalent to about $15,800,000 to assist 
in financing Parts A and B of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and ARRA;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Agency Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between ARRA and 
a Service Provider (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"ARRA" means Azerbaijan Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency, a 
public agency of the Borrower, established pursuant to its Charter (as hereinafter 
defined);
(c)
"Azenerji" means the power company of the Borrower, established as a 
joint-stock company pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 423 dated September 17, 1996, 
and includes any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Association;
(d)
"Charter" means the charter of ARRA, dated September 10, 1996, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
"Demining Agency" means the agency to be established pursuant to Section 
6.01(a) of this Agreement and referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Guidelines" means the guidelines to be adopted by ARRA pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement.
(g)
"IDP" means an internally displaced person; and "IDPs" means, 
collectively, all said persons;
(h)
"Law No. 155 EG" means the Law on Land Reform of the Borrower dated July 
16, 1996;
(i)
"Law No. 978" means the Law on Kolkhoz and Sovkhoz Reform of the Borrower 
dated February 18, 1995;
(j)
"Manat" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k)
"Microcredit" means a credit made or proposed to be made to an IDP out of 
the proceeds of the Credit by ARRA, through a Service Provider (as hereinafter 
defined), under a Microcredit Agreement (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and the term 
Page  3
"Microcredits" means, collectively, more than one Microcredit;
(l)
"Microcredit Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between a 
Service Provider and IDPs in respect of income generating activities to be financed 
out of the proceeds of a Microcredit;
(m)
"Mines" means landmines and includes explosive items such as bombs, booby 
traps, munitions and exploded ordnance of any kind;
(n)
"MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(o)
"Monitoring and Evaluation Unit" means the unit within ARRA as referred 
to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement to monitor the implementation of the 
Project;
(p)
"Project Account" means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 6.01 
(b) of this Agreement;
(q)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and ARRA 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(r)
"Project Areas" means Fuzuli, Agdam and Terter raions of the Borrower;
(s)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 7, 1997, and June 26, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association (Agreement 
Letter Q035-0 AZ), as amended;
(t)
"Rental Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between ARRA and 
eligible IDPs under Part C.1(b) of the Project;
(u)
"Relocation Agency" means the agency to be established pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement to be responsible for the implementation of Part A 
of the Project;
(v) 
"Service Provider" means a public or private institution or a 
non-governmental organization eligible to engage in income generating activities to 
IDPs under Parts C.5 and C.6 of the Project;
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(x)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by Service 
Providers out of the proceeds of the Credit to IDPs; and
(y)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ARRA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a Service 
Provider on account of withdrawals made by IDPs under a Microcredit to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for income generating activities in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is required; (ii) for amounts paid (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a Service Provider under a 
Sub-grant; and (iii) for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for 
Parts C, D, E, and F of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2008 and ending March 15, 
2033.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2018 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred,   provided, however, that there shall be a grace period 
of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
Page  5
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause ARRA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
ARRA Project Agreement all the obligations of ARRA therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARRA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
the Borrower shall make available as a grant the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Categories in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement to ARRA under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ARRA (the Subsidiary Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association.
(c)
the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for Parts C, D, E, and F of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Account during the 
execution of the Project and deposit, semiannually, an amount in Manat equivalent to 
$250,000 into such account.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, the Demining Agency, to be responsible for the identification of mined areas, 
implementation of demining contracts and a mine awareness program, staffed at all 
times by personnel with qualifications, terms of reference and functions at all times 
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) ensure that all Mine clearance activities are 
carried out and all Mines cleared are promptly destroyed in accordance with 
appropriate safety standards and guidelines.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project, 
the Relocation Agency staffed at all times by personnel with qualifications, terms of 
reference and functions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall make adequate arrangements with Azenerji to 
ensure: (a) that the IDPs will not be charged for their electricity consumption during 
the first year following their relocation up to 2,000 kWh per capita; and (b) that the 
charges for the IDPs’ electricity consumption will progressively be increased so as to 
reach the level of charges by other consumers by the end of the fourth year following 
their relocation.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause Azenerji to: (a) prepare and furnish to 
the Association by June 30, 1999, a study of options for cost recovery by Azenerji for 
the services provided under the Project; and (b) thereafter exchange views with the 
Association to determine the most appropriate option and steps to be taken for the 
implementation of the said study.
Page  6
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to enable the 
Service Providers to have access to relevant sites in Project Areas.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
right of IDPs to the land that they are relocated shall be protected through the 
issuance of land titles pursuant to the provisions of Law No. 155 EG and  Law No. 978.
Section 3.10. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by ARRA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(ii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events is are specified:
(a)
Law No. 155 EG and Law No. 978 shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
ARRA to carry out the Project.
(b)
The development activity for which the land or facilities has or have 
been cleared of Mines under the project is, in the sole opinion of the Association, 
jeopardized by laying down new Mines anywhere in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
The Additional Grants shall have failed to become effective by September 
15, 1999, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
Page  7
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Demining Agency and the Relocation Agency have been established in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account in a local commercial bank 
and made an initial deposit of the amount in Manat equivalent to $250,000 into such 
account;
(c)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
ARRA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01(b)(i) of this Agreement, with experience and qualifications, and under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
ARRA has adopted the Guidelines, setting out the terms and conditions and 
criteria for Rental Agreements, for the implementation of Part C.1(b) of the Project, 
in form and content satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ARRA, 
and is legally binding upon ARRA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and ARRA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ARRA in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
6 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku 370006
Azerbaijan Republic
Telex:
142116 BNKSL
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ A. Sharifov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ T. Yaprak 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Civil works
   5,270,000
100%
(2)
Consultants' services
   1,560,000
100%
and training
(3)
Microcredits
     300,000
100% (of amounts
under Part C.5
disbursed)
of the Project
(4)
Sub-grants
     230,000
100% (of amounts
under Part C.6
disbursed)
of the Project
(5)
Equipment and
   4,530,000
100% of foreign
materials
expenditures, 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and
85% of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured 
locally
(6)
Refunding of
   1,120,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,890,000
TOTAL
  14,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "training" means training activities (other than consultants’ 
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the travel cost and per diem 
of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, unless the Microcredit has been made in accordance with the procedures and 
on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; and (c) under Category (4) of the table set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Sub-grant has been made in accordance with 
paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) for works under contracts costing less than 
$400,000 equivalent; (c) for services for consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) for services for individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to facilitate the 
relocation of IDPs to Project Areas and raise their standard of living through: (a) 
development of an effective approach to resume economic activities; (b) strengthening 
of the Borrower’s institutional capacity; and (c) improvement of donor coordination 
activities.
Page  10
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Relocation
Provision of assistance for the management of voluntary relocation of IDPs to 
Project Areas.
Part B:
Housing
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works for the rehabilitation and 
reconstruction of housing in Project Areas.
Part C:
Income Generation
1.
Provision of (a) agricultural inputs including quality seeds, fertilizer, and 
livestock; and (b) farm machinery, equipment and spare parts to increase agricultural 
production.
2.
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works for the rehabilitation of 
irrigation infrastructure in Project Areas.
3.
Provision of equipment, materials and technical assistance to: (a) establish 
land registration services and issuance of land titles to IDPs; (b) improve 
agricultural information services; (c) carry out on-farm adaptive field trials of 
improved practices; and (d) provide marketing support.
4.
Provision of equipment, materials and technical assistance for: (a) the 
establishment of water user associations; (b) quality control of irrigation; and (c) 
monitoring and evaluation.
5.
Provision of Microcredits to IDPs to carry out projects for income-generating 
activities.
6.
Provision of Sub-grants to IDPs for preparation of income-generating activities.
7.
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works for carrying out public works.
Part D:
Health and Education
1.
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works for repair and rehabilitation 
of health service facilities in Project Areas.
2.
Provision of essential pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and equipment.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training for: (a) national prescription 
practices and primary care/family medicine; and (b) monitoring and evaluation.
4.
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works to rehabilitate public 
schools.
5.
Provision of textbooks, supplementary readers, writing materials and pedagogical 
materials.
6.
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the capacity of 
local education authorities and teachers.
Part E:
Infrastructure and Energy
1.
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works to repair water supplies, 
including the rehabilitation of wells, pumping stations, water mains and pipes in 
Project Areas.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training for the preparation of designs 
and tender documents.
3.
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works for the rehabilitation of: (a) 
railway connection to Goradiz; (b) roads; (c) telephone lines and cables in Project 
Areas.
Page  11
4.
Provision of equipment, materials and civil works to reconstruct and 
rehabilitate transmission and distribution facilities and networks and to upgrade 
existing facilities.
Part F:
Institutional Support
Provision of equipment, materials and technical assistance to strengthen the 
institutional capacity of ARRA and Demining Agency and to improve donor coordination.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  Parts C, D, E, and F of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to  $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
Page  12
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
