Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3109 AZ
Project Agreement
(Pilot Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AZERBAIJAN RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION AGENCY
Dated August 7, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3109 AZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AZERBAIJAN RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION AGENCY 
(ARRA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Azerbaijan Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
ARRA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ARRA the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to ARRA on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ARRA in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ARRA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ARRA shall otherwise agree, ARRA shall carry out 
Part C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts C, D, E, and F of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ARRA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts C, D, 
E, and F of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ARRA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Association and ARRA, a plan for 
continuation of project activities; and
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with ARRA on said plan.
Section 2.04. ARRA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARRA shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ARRA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts C, D, E, and F of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ARRA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARRA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06. ARRA shall, not later than December 31, 1998, establish the 
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and thereafter maintain said Unit until the completion 
of the Project with adequate staff and resources satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.07. ARRA shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association by March 
31, 1999, a study of options for cost recovery by MOA for the farm inputs and 
machinery services being provided under the Project; and (b) thereafter exchange views 
with the Association to determine the most appropriate option and steps to be taken 
Page  3
for the implementation of the said study.
Section 2.08. ARRA shall ensure in preparing the specifications for works under 
Part B of the Project that provisions will be inserted to ensure that no toxic 
building materials or materials containing asbestos will be used.
Section 2.09. For purposes of Parts C, D, E, and F, of the Project, ARRA shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 15, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the matter.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARRA
Section 3.01. ARRA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ARRA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ARRA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
ARRA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Page  4
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of ARRA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ARRA 
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ARRA:
69 Fuzuli Street 3rd Floor
Baku
Azerbaijan Republic
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ARRA or by 
ARRA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Managing Director, or by such other person or persons as ARRA shall 
designate in writing, and ARRA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ T. Yaprak
Authorized Representative
Page  5
AZERBAIJAN RECONSTRUCTION AND 
REHABILITATION AGENCY
By /s/ A. Mamedov
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A, (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extend practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works, estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works.
Page  6
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (a) each contract procured under Part B of this Section; 
and (b) the first five contracts procured under Part C.1 of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to: (a) first three contracts procured under Part C.2 of 
this Section; and (b) the first contracts procured under Parts C.3 and C.5 of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A, (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  7
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for training of Service Providers, the water user associations and 
agriculture information services under Part C of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part C of the Project
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Part C.1(b) of the Project, ARRA shall provide 
farm machinery to eligible IDPs under a Rental Agreement, under terms and conditions 
and criteria set forth in the Guidelines.  ARRA shall maintain the Guidelines in form 
and content satisfactory to the Association and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the said Guidelines without obtaining the prior approval of the Association.
2.
For the purposes of carrying out Parts  C.5 and C.6 of the Project, ARRA shall 
enter into Agency Agreements with Service Providers under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association including, without limitation, the 
terms and conditions set forth in the paragraph 4 to this Schedule and through the 
Service Providers, make available to eligible IDPs:
(a)
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 
(3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the amount of financing required for an income generating activity under a 
Microcredit Agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Association, which shall include, without limitation, the terms and conditions set 
forth in paragraph 7 of this Schedule; and
Page  8
(b)
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 
(4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, Sub-grants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall include, without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in 
paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
3.
An Agency Agreement may be entered into with a Service Provider which ARRA shall 
have determined meets, inter alia, the following eligibility criteria:
(a)
the Service Provider has an adequate number of qualified staff to enable 
it to carry out its activities with due diligence and efficiency; 
(b)
the Service Provider has adequate capacity to manage credit activities; 
and
(c)
the Service Provider has the capacity to maintain adequate records and 
accounts in accordance with appropriate accounting practices.
Terms and Conditions of Agency Agreements
4.
Each respective Agency Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which each 
respective Service Provider shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Parts C.5 and C.6 of the Project and 
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative and 
financial standards and practices;
(b)
exercise its rights in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Borrower, the Association, and ARRA, and comply with its obligations 
under its respective Agency Agreement to achieve the purposes of Parts C.5 and C.6 of 
the Project;
(c)
refrain from assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any of its 
Microcredit Agreements, or any provision thereof, without prior approval of ARRA, as 
the case may be;
(d)
cause the IDPs to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Microcredit Agreement, all the obligations set forth therein;
(e)
exchange views with, and furnish all such information to, ARRA, as may be 
reasonably requested by the Association or ARRA, with regard to the progress of its 
activities under Parts C.5 and C.6 of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under its respective Agency Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
Parts C.5 and C.6 of the Project;
(f)
promptly inform ARRA of any conditions which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of its activities under its respective Agency Agreement;
(g)
maintain records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition, including a separate 
account in respect of any payments made by the IDPs under their respective Microcredit 
Agreements;
(i)
furnish to ARRA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial 
statements and accounts for such year in such scope and detail as the Association or 
ARRA shall have reasonably requested; and
(j)
furnish to ARRA such other information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements, as the Association or ARRA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Remedies
5.
The right of a Service Provider to commit further Microcredits or Sub-grants may 
be: (a) suspended on account of failure by such Service Provider to: (i) perform any 
of its obligations under its respective Agency Agreement, or (ii) continue to be in 
compliance with the eligibility requirements for Service Providers; and (b) terminated 
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of 120 days.
Page  9
Eligibility Criteria
6.
A Microcredit Agreement may be entered into with a relocated IDP who:
(i)
has submitted a business plan demonstrating the economic and 
financial viability of his/her operations; and
(ii)
has agreed to provide: (aa) a lien on registered land as 
collateral; and (bb) a lien on assets financed by the Microcredit.
Terms and Conditions of Microcredits
7.
(a)
The principal amount of each Microcredit shall: (a) be denominated in 
Dollars and shall be the equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Accounts), of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of 
expenditures for works, goods and services financed out of such proceeds for the 
income generating activities; (b) not exceed the amount of $1,000; and (c) repaid in 
two (2) years, in two equal installments.
(b)
Microcredits shall each be made on terms whereby the Service Provider 
making the Microcredit shall enter into a Microcredit Agreement with the IDPs to 
obtain rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the Borrower, the 
Association and ARRA, including, as appropriate, the right to:
(i)
require the IDPs to carry out the income generating activity with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, environmental, economical, financial and commercial 
practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly 
as needed, the fund facilities and other resources required for 
this purpose;
(ii)
require that: (i) the works, goods and services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Microcredit shall be procured using 
purchasing practices, which usually involves comparing more than 
one price quotation; and (ii) such goods and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the income generating 
activities; and 
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the IDP to use the proceeds of 
the Microcredit on account of failure by such IDP to perform its 
obligations under its Microcredit Agreement with the Service 
Provider.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-grants
8.
(a)
Sub-grants shall be made out of the proceeds of the Credit to provide 
training to IDPs for the preparation of income generating activities under terms and 
conditions and eligibility criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)
The amount of a Sub-grant shall not exceed the maximum amount of $200.
