Document of
The World Banlk
FOR OFMlCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14600
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1752-MAG)
JUNE 12, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = FMG (Malagasy franc)
Year                                            Malagasy Franc US $ 1.00
equivalenti
1986                                                      676.3
1987                                                     1,069.2
1988                                                     1,407.1
1989                                                     1,603.4
1990                                                     1,494.1
1991                                                     1,835.4
1992                                                     1,866.4
1993                                                     1,913.8
1994 (Average for first six months)                     2,841.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFD           - Caisse Francaise de Developpement (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique in the Staff Appraisal Report)
CMN           - Compagnie Malgache de Navigation
DTM           - Direction des Transports Maritimes (Directorate of Maritime Transport)
ENEM          - Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement Maritime
ERR           - Economic Rate of Return
FAC           - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
KfW           - ICreditanstalt fur Wiedranfbau
MTM           - Ministere des Transports et de la Meteorologie (Ministry of Transport
and Meteorology)
MTP           - Ministere des Travaux Publics (Ministry of public works)
PPF           - Project Preparation Facility
SAR           - Staff Appraisal Report
SEPT          - Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (Toamasina Port Authority)
SNMTM         - The Societe Nationale Malgache des Transports Maritimes
SVM           - Service des Voies Maritimes (Seaway Department)
'Annual average



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface.                                ................................................                                                             i
Evaluation Summary .................................................                                                                                ii
Part I:   Performance Assessment ..........................................1...... 
Project Identity ...............................................                                                                                 I
Background ...............................................                   .                                                                   1
A.   Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives ...............................................                                                         2
B. Achievement of objectives ................................................3
1. Rehabilitation/Provision  of Infrastructure and  Equipment ............................ .................3
2. Institutional Development ............................................                                                                  3
3. Shipping Services .............................................3
4. Economic Re-evaluation ............................................                                                                     4
5. Financial Re-evaluation ............................................                                                                    6
C.   Implementation  and  Major Factors Affecting  the Project ............................................8
1.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................
2.  Project Implementation ............................................8 
a. Rehabilitation/Provision  of Infrastructure and  Equipment .........................................8
b. Shipping Services .........................................                                                                      9
c. Additional Components .........................................                                                                  9
d. Disbursement and Project costs .........................................                                                         9
D.   Project Sustainability ...............................................                              ................      .....           10
E. Bank Performance ...............................................                                                                            10
F. Borrower Performance ............................................... 11
G. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................                                                                       11
H.   Future  Operation ...............................................1............................                                       ..... 12
1. Key Lessons Learned ................................................ 13
Part IH:  Borrower's Contribution .................................. 14
Part III:  Statistical Information.                                                ................................. 22
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ..................................                                                                           22
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................                                                                      23
Table 3:   Project Timetable ..................................                                                                               23
Table 4:          Credit Disbursement: Cumulative and Actual.................                                                 ................. 24
Chart 1:          Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursement ..................................                                              25
Table 5:   Project Implementation ..................................                                                                          25
Table 6 and Chart 2:   Key  Indicators for Project Operations                                       .... ........................... 26
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 7:        Studies Included in the Project ............................                                              31
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................                                                                       32
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................                                                                   32
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ............................                                                       33
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ............................                                                         35
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................ 35
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ............................                                                           36
Appendices
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Annexes
C. IBRDMapNo. 19595R1



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1752-MAG
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Ports Rehabilitation
Project in Madagascar, for which Credit 1752-MAG in the amount of SDR 13.2 million (US$
16 million equivalent) was approved on February 19, 1987 and made effective on September
17, 1987.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1994 compared with the original closing date
of September 30, 1992. Final disbursement took place on March 31, 1995, at which time a
balance of SDR 2.390 million (US$ 3.766 equivalent) was canceled. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by CFD, KfW, FAC and local sources. The ICR was prepared by Kais
Ben Hamida, TWUTD and Ahmed Lamrini, Consultant; and reviewed by Maryvonne Plessis-
Fraissard, Chief, AF3IN and P. Hari Prassad, Operations Adviser, AF3DR The Borrower
provided comments that are included in Part II of the ICR. Preparation of this ICR was begun
during the Bank's completion mission in January 1995. It is based on material in the project
file.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1752-MAG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank's association with the transport sector in Madagascar has been quite
extensive with 11 transportation projects to date, of which seven have been in roads and three
in railways. Despite the importance of maritime transport in Madagascar, this project was only
the first to address the needs of most of the country's ports (the major port of Toamasina was
the only one to be covered by an earlier project).
2.    In 1982, the French "Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration" (FAC) financed a study on ports
and shipping, which made a proposal for a reorganization in the port subsector and led to the
Ports Rehabilitation Project.
Project Objectives
3.    The project objectives were:
(a)   rehabilitation of ports' physical infrastructure, and rehabilitation or provision of
new equipment, to reduce transport costs to users of shipping services;
(b)   development of institutional capacity to manage, operate and maintain, at a
reasonable level of efficiency, the ports subsector and its restored assets; and
(c)   elimination of delays and safety hazards to navigation.
4.    Financial covenants were agreed at appraisal to help achieve the institutional
development objective, especially with respect to financial management (see Table 10 of Part
m). The covenants aimed to ensure the recovery of operating costs, the submission of audited
reports and the annual review of tariffs.
5.    Although the project objectives were both clearly spelt out and important for the
transport sector, they were ambitious, particularly in relation to the relatively modest
investment provided for their achievement.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project achieved many of its objectives. It prevented degradation of the Malagasy
ports subsector. Rehabilitation works and equipment endowed DTM ports (run by Directorate
of Maritime Transport, i.e., all ports except Toamnasina) with the necessary means to perform
their activities, while enabling SEPT (the port authority for Toamasina) to support strong levels



iii
of activity. The objective of reducing costs was partially met in DTM ports and in Toamasina.
Institutional reforms and technical assistance enhanced the efficiency of management in
Toamasina and have created a good base for future operations in DTM ports. The objective of
eliminating delays and safety hazards was generally met.
7.    The project's recalculated ERR (reflecting actual data through 1994 and revised
projections) is 27% (29% in the SAR). Overall performance to date has been satisfactory, but
the recalculated ERR for some ports is below expectations, due essentially to overestimation of
traffic volumes (see para. 16).
8.    The steady and important devaluation of the Malagasy Franc enabled SEPT to achieve
highly satisfactory financial performance and meet all its financial objectives; this was due
mainly to its tariffs being indexed to the ECU since 1992 (see para. 27). The devaluation had
an opposite effect on DTM ports because their tariffs were indexed to the local currency.
Overall financial objectives for DTM ports --including recovery of operating costs-- were not
achieved. The ports' financial management improved substantially, however, as reflected in
the set up of a new commercial accounting system, the inclusion of depreciation in financial
statements and the annual submission of audited reports (see para. 33).
9.    Actual project costs amounted to US$ 27.4 million compared to US$ 34.8 million at
appraisal. The difference between actual and foreseen costs is explained largely by the high
arnounts allocated to contingencies in the SAR (see para. 45). The project was financed by
IDA, CFD, KfW, FAC and local sources; about 18% of the credit and 13% of other donor
financing was canceled in early 1995, reflecting persistent delays that extended project
implementation beyond ten years of its identification (see para. 44). Although infrastructure
works and cargo handling equipment were implemented in time, many delays were recorded,
mainly in the project's dredging and navigation aids components.
10.   The key factors that affected the achievement of project objectives were:
(a)   the project's complex design involving a large number of ports (see para. 7);
(b)   overestimation of traffic volume (see para. 16);
(c)   the steady devaluation of the Malagasy Franc (see para. 27, 44 and 54);
(d)   political events creating gaps in decision making (see para. 44);
(e)    damnage caused by cyclones to port infrastructure (see para. 43);
(f)   cumbersome administrative procedures for contract signing (see para. 53);
(g)   unavailability of the Malagasy financing contribution at the contracted times
(see para. 36);
(h)   lack of competencies, mainly of DTM staff (see para. 53); and
(i)   the inadequacy of preliminary studies for the dredging component (see para. 11
and 40);.
11.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. However the objectives at appraisal were
ambitious and very demanding for the Borrower. The frequency of supervision missions
exceeded the pace of the project's progress. Also worth noting is the virtual absence of
accounting for project accounts (see para. 50). Borrower performance was satisfactory for the



iv
port of Toamasina but deficient for DTM ports, whose management capability was not strong
enough to adequately implement the project.
12.   Despite numerous hurdles, the project overall outcome is satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned.
13.   The project saved the ports subsector from important degradation. To further upgrade
the condition of Malagasy ports, a reform agenda should be pursued through sector adjustment
and lending. Future efforts should: (a) emphasize the importance of maintenance works, to
ensure that investment lasts; (b) reorganize the ports sector by developing in the three main
regional ports autonomous entities and involving private sector participation in Toamasina; (c)
study and implement a tariff system indexed on a stable currency especially for DTM ports,
and examine the scope for harmonizing SEPT's tariffs with those of other ports in the Indian
ocean; (d) ensure the implementation of an efficient cost recovery system to finance ongoing
maintenance and renewal of equipment as required; and (e) simplify administrafive and
customs procedures, especially for coastal shipping. In addition, the Bank should invest IDA
resources in infrastructure rather than equipment (see para. 56).
14.   The most important lessons learned from this project suggest future efforts should seek
to: (a) ensure the capacity of the implementing agencies for new operations as well as the
availability of local funds; (b) design projects that are well focused and limited in their scope;
(c) contract maintenance works to private operators rather than by force account; (d) set up an
effective system for managing the information necessary for supervision and implementation
completion reporting; and (e) set up a sound accounting system, choose an accounting
software, both acceptable to the Bank, and accept auditing process for project accounts as a
condition of effectiveness.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1752-MAG
PART I: PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Name:               Ports Rehabilitation Project
Credit number:      1752-MAG
RVP unit:           Africa
Department:         Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Country:            Madagascar
Sector:             Transportation
Background
1.    Madagascar is the fourth largest island in the world with about 12 million inhabitants
unevenly distributed across an area of about 590,000 sq.lan. The central highlands and the east
coast are the most populated. The topography is generally rugged and a central mountain
range traverses the country from north to south. The climate is mainly marne-tropical, with
cyclones and heavy rainfall particularly frequent on the east coast Exports are largely
agricultural; coffee, cloves, vanilla and shrimp are the most important. Some minerals are also
exported, including graphite, chromite and mica.
2.    Transport Sector.  The country's transport sector accounted for about 14% of GDP
and about 26% of total government expenditures in 19891. Weak road and railway networks
have given rise to dense domestic air and coastal transport networks consisting of 17 airports
and 16 ports. Extemal transport needs are met largely by maritime transport for freight and air
services for people.
3.    Port Subsector. The most important ports are Toamasina (the main international port),
Mahajanga, Antsiranana and Toliara. These four ports handle about 90° of the countly's totl
traffic; Toamasina accounts for nearly three-fourths of that share. The remaining 10%/0 of traffic
is handled by all other ports2 catering exclusively to coastal shipping vessels. The Compagnie
Malgache de Navigation (CMN) handles coastal shipping. Several private operators operate
small vessels along the coast and to nearby islands. All ports are managed by the Ministry of
Transport and Meteorology (MITM) through the Directorate of Maritime Transport (DTM),
' Last transport sector review was in May 1991.
2Mananjary, Morondava, Nosy Be, Vohemar, Manakra, Saint Louis, Antalaba, Maintirano,
Maroantsetra, Antsohihy, Morombe and Tolagnaro.



2
except the port of Toamasina which is managed by an independent Toamasina Port Authority
(SEPT) under the supervision of MTM.
4.    Origin of the Project. This project was the outcome of a study on ports and shipping,
financed by the French "Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation" (FAC) in 1982, which proposed a
reorganization in the port subsector.
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
5.    Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the project were: (a) to rehabilitate the
physical infrastructure, and rehabilitate or provide new equipment, in 10 of the country's 16
several ports, in order to reduce transport costs to users of shipping services; (b) to develop the
institutional capacity to manage, operate and maintain, at a reasonable level of efficiency, the
ports subsector and its restored assets; and (c) to eliminate delays and safety hazards in
navigation.
6.    Project Descnption.  To help achieve the objectives, the project provided financial
assistance to the ports of Toamasina, Manakara, Tolagnaro, Toliara, Vohemar, Morondava,
Mahajanga, Nosy Be, Antsiranana, and Port Saint Louis, as summarized below (see Table 8A
for details):
(a)    Port rehabilitation and modernization (US$ 7.7 million):  repair and
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure (quays, slipways, yards, building,
utilities);
(b)    Cargo handling improvements (US$ 9.3 million): procurement of new cargo
handling equipment, floating crafts, spare parts and materials;
(c)   Institutional development (US$ 4.6 million):
(i)    Technical support to MTM and SEPT, to strengthen technical skills,
improve management, cargo handling operations, maintenance,
navigation aids and dredging; and
(ii)    Training for MIM and SEPT staff, including scholarships and training
materials; and
(d)    Shipping services (US$ 4.5 million):
(i)    Dredging at Manakara, Tolagnaro, Toliara and Mahajanga;
(ii)    Navigation aids and hydrographic equipment including new buoys,
solar power lights, lighthouse repair and telephone communication
system; and
(iii) Spare parts for the international and coastal shipping fleet.
7.    Evaluation of Project Objectives.  Although clearly spelt out and important for the
transport sector, project objectives were ambitious, particularly in relation to the relatively
modest investment provided for their achievement. Moreover, the scattering of project



3
components throughout the country, covering the most important ports, weakened the project's
overall impact. Funding from four financiers and implementation by two agencies also made
the project complex and very demanding for the Borrower. Together, these factors made the
project's evaluation difficult and increased the risk of only partial achievement of objectives.
B. Achievement of Objectives
1. Rehabilitation/Provision of Infrastructure and Equipment
8.    Infrastructure.   The objective of infrastructure rehabilitation was partially met.
Planned works were to protect the port infrastructure from suffering further damage while
maintenance and significant repair work was to enable infrastructure to last longer; these were
generally achieved. However, even though appraised in 1986, the operation was not realized
until 1990, resulting in continued degradation until that time. In addition, some techniques
used in rehabilitating platforms and quays turned out to be unsuitable for port activities.
9.    Equipment.  Rehabilitation and provision of handling tools, which had been either
lacking or in a very advanced state of dilapidation, improved the ports' ability to perform at
higher levels. However, the low level of traffic due to the currently weak economic situation
prevented DTM ports from taking full advantage of these capacities. The KfW post-evaluation
(which concerns only DTM ports) concluded that a large part of the equipment purchased
under the project is at present in bad shape. Primarily to blame is the lack of maintenance;
future projects should emphasize the importance of this component. It would also be wiser to
provide the country with less sophisticated equipment that would be easier to maintain. In
Toamasina, improvement in productivity was achieved.   The Caisse Fran,aise de
D6veloppement (CFD) noted that the equipment supplied under the project enabled this port to
handle cargo more efficiently.
2. Institutional Development
10.   The Training and Technical Assistance component achieved its goals.  Training
provided at home, as well as abroad, was highly beneficial to the SEPT and DTM staff.
However, the program would have realized greater benefits if similar training had been
extended to other port operators (maritime shippers, custom officers, private operators), as
planned in the SAR.
3. Shipping Services
11.   Dredging. The unforeseen events and risks faced at different worksites attest to the
considerable inadequacy of prelininary studies. Barely 50 percent of the dredging objectives
were realized. This includes, because of non responsive bidding process on dredging works
and technical difficulties in the concerned ports not identified at the time of appraisal, repair of
three dredgers. However, these dredgers might break down again because of the spare parts'
failure.



4
12.   Navigation aids. Project activities have enabled access to ports by night, improvement
of ship safety and a considerable cut in standstill time. However, many maintenance problems
remain to be addressed. The absence of spare parts, the low technical skills of port workers in
relation to those needed and an insufficiency maintenance budget were the main constraints to
achieving the project's stated objectives. The new access ramp to Morondava port was not
useful, since the ligtherage companies were not supplied with the required lighters (with ramps
at the front).
4. Economic Re-evaluation
13.   Recall of Project Objectives. For purposes of economic analysis, the basic objectives
of the project were to reduce the cost of shipping primary commodities and to facilitate exports
through improvements in cargo handling. The project was also intended to improve ship
utilization through more efficient use of equipment, and improve safety by reducing the number
of accidents due to lack of lighthouses.
14.   Main Benefits.  The main quantifiable benefits realized were: (a) decrease in ship
waiting time attained through dredging and improvement in productivity of cargo handling
(major benefit); and (b) increase in night traffic.
15.   Costs.  As in the SAR, economic cost calculations were based on financial costs
excluding taxes and duties. Unlike the SAR, the present analysis reflects costs in US $ terms
because of the important and steady devaluation of the Malagasy Franc. All project costs have
been included in the analysis, except training costs and the indirect cost of technical assistance,
which can not be allocated to each port. So calculated, total costs in the analysis amounted to
about 74% of total actual project costs (63% in the SAR).
16.   Traffic Forecast. The analysis of benefits was based on traffic forecasts for the main
ports. Although those forecasts assumed a low rate of economic growth, the total traffic of
DTM  ports3, foreseen at appraisal, was overestimated.  The moderate traffic increases
expected for the four major ports: Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Toamasina and Toliara, which
represent the large majority of the national traffic, were underestimated at the time of appraisal
as reflected in the SAR forecast, although growth in Mahajanga's traffic was below
expectations. In Nosy Be and Port Saint Louis, slight increases in traffic outperformed
forecasts for a traffic decline. An estimated increase in traffic at Manakara proved optimistic:
the port recorded a marked decrease in traffic volume due to irregular use by navigation
companies and the use by potential customers of the paved road. Tables 6B and 6C of Part m
contain additional information on actual and estimated traffic.
17.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The project's ERR has been recalculated to reflect
actual data available through 1994 and revised projections for future years (see Annex 1 and
Table 9 of Part III for details). The same methodology was used as in the SAR. The
recalculated global ERR is 27% (29% in the SAR). The project's overall performance to date
has been satisfactory; however, the recalculated ERR for some ports is below expectations, for
3 All ports under the project except Toamasina



5
various reasons detailed below. The ERR calculation was especially sensitive to three
variables: traffic, productivity and costs.
18.   Results exceeded expectations for Mahajanga, and especially for Toliara and
Toamasina, where costs and productivity were correctly estimated. In addition, Toliara and
Toamasina experienced higher-than-expected levels of traffic, which, in tum, led to higher
returns. In Mahajanga, the low traffic level was compensated by lower costs and very good
productivity performance. In Antsiranana, traffic was correctly estimated, while productivity
and costs were higher and lower, respectively, than the levels projected.
19.   The ERRs for Nosy Be and Port Saint Lowus compared well with those foreseen in the
SAR. In Nosy Be, financing of equipment was canceled, thus substantially reducing costs of
this component; in Port Saint Louis, the stronger-than-expected traffic helped offset the
increase in costs.
20.   Manakara, Voh6mar, Morondava and Tolagnaro recorded negative ERRs.  In
Manakara and Voh6mar traffic was very low (well below 50% of the expected levels).
Tolagnaro's poor results stemmed from gains in productivity that were projected but not
realized. In addition, costs were significantly underestimated for Tolagnaro as they were for
Manakara; high costs recorded in Tolagnaro and Voh6mar were due to equipment that was
oversized in relation to that needed to support existing traffic volumes. On the other hand,
costs were correctly estimated in Morondava.
21.   The ERR for the Navigation aids and shipping component was 29% (26% in the SAR).
The objective of decreasing time to entry was met. Actual costs were lower than estimated due
to the cancellation of the hydrographic survey for reasons of its high costs.
22.   The ERR and other variables for each component, are summarized below:
Tolagnaro     negative     28%                                             -S
Mianakara     negative     25%                      0          --          -4
Morondava     negative     41%                -                 0          -3
Voh6mar       negative     26%                      -          ++          -1
Nosy Be        50%         53%                      -          ++          -1
Saint Louis    18%         22%          0           -                      -3
Toliara        45%         29%          +           0           0           1
Toamasina      39%         270/o5       +           0           0           1
Mahajanga      31%         22%                     + +         + +          2
Antsiranana    29%         38%          0           +           +           2
Nav. Aids      29%         26%   -_  n.a           n.a         + +         n.a
4This rate is obtained by algebraic addition of traffic, productivity and cost codes.
5 This rate does not take into account improvement in handling coffee cargo; with such improvement, the
SAR estimated an ERR of 32%.



6
Codes:
- -: Worse than expected by more than 50%
- Worse than expected by more than 10% and less than 50%
0 No more than 10% better or worse than expected value
+: Better than expected by more than 10% and less than 50%
+ +: Better than expected by more than 50%
23.   The nature of investment affected the ERR (see Table 2B of Annex 1). In Toamasina,
71% of the costs reflected in the econornic re-evaluation were related to equipment; these costs
represented only 26% for DTM ports whose largest investments were in dredging and
rehabilitation. In most DTM ports, dredging works had high costs, while rehabilitation did not
improve traffic levels. Oversized equipment also adversely affected ERR, by obstructing
projected improvements in productivity.
24.   In conclusion, good results were obtained for the most important ports, mainly
Toamasina and Toliara. In these ports, traffic volumes were less subject to exceptional
variations and thus more correctly estimated, making economic evaluation more reliable. The
project's achievement of its objectives would have been superior if activities had focused more
heavily on these ports.
5. Financial Re-evaluation
SEPT
25.   Financial performance of SEPT was highly satisfactory. Project financial objectives
were met (see para. 26) and SEPT complied with all financial legal covenants (see Table 10 of
Part EI). The excellent results of SEPT were due mainly to its tariffs being indexed on the
ECU since 1992. The important and steady devaluation of the Malagasy Franc helped SEPT
achieve its good financial performance.
26.   Under the project, SEPT was to: (a) phase out its non-port activities; (b) increase the
collection rate of its receivable; (c) improve staff productivity; and (d) increase tariffs, in real
terms, in 1987. All these objectives were met. Since 1987, SEPT has been engaged only in
maritime activity. Between 1986 and 1987 its financial performance improved dramatically as
a result of improved port performance and financial restructuring. Between 1986 and 1993, a
reduction in its staff by about 45% led to an improvement in staff productivity. Receivable
turnover declined by about 28% between 1986 and 1993, pointing to an improvement in
collection rates. Since then, however, this ratio has been below estimated levels reflecting a
buildup in accounts receivable. Continuous efforts to improve collection are needed by SEPT.
27.   Table 6D of Part mI shows that SEPT's operating performance improved significantly,
converting a loss of FMG 4.6 billion (US$ 6.8 million equivalent) in 1986 into net income of
FMG 3.5 billion (UJS$ 1.8 million equivalent) in 1993. When the Malagasy currency is used,
actual net income over this period varied between three and six times the estimated levels, with
an average annual increase of 56%. The devaluation of the Malagasy Franc accounted largely
for this big difference. In US dollar terms, actual net income was closer to estimated levels
(136% of that estimated for 1993). Supporting the improved operating performance was an



7
increase in traffic of about 6% annually, combined with tariff increases implemented between
1987 and 1992.
28.   In four of the last five years, SEPT generated an added value from its operations in
excess of 60% of its total revenues; operating income for the period ranged between 13% and
31% of its revenues. According to the financial statement for 1994, SEPT had better control
(than in 1992 and 1993) over its working expenses, which increased only by 18% compared to
a 39% increase in revenues. Over the last nine years working and operating ratios6 were better
than estimated. In 1994, they were, respectively, 54% and 68% compared to projected ratios
of 71% and 83%, indicating superior profitability relative to that expected. The debt-to-equity
ratio decreased from 74% in 1990 to a more acceptable level of under 44% in 1994.
DTM
29.   The " Service d'Exploitation des Ports" is responsible for financial management of the
ports under DTM. The financial performance of DTM ports was unsatisfactory in relation to
the financial objectives defined in the SAR. Financial covenants (cost recovery, submission of
audit reports and annual tariff review) were only partially met.  However, substantial
improvements were recorded in the financial management of these ports.
30.   The financial objectives of the project were: (a) to set port tariffs at a level that would
ensure recovery of global cost; (b) to reduce staff by 10%; and (c) to increase the importance of
maintenance in the budget. Overall, those objectives were not achieved.
31.   In four of the last five years, port revenues increased annually by nearly a third.
Increases in tariffs were undertaken regularly to achieve the objective of cost recovery. Since
the tariff system in these ports is based on local currency, however, steady devaluation of the
Malagasy Franc reduced the impact of tariff increases with a negative effect on the financial
results. Net operating income was negative until 1994, when it turned positive; however,
reflection of the project's infrastructure investments in the financial statements led to a loss of
about FMG 147 billion. To achieve the objective of cost recovery, tariffs should be indexed on
a more stable currency, at least for the most important ports of Toliara, Mahajanga and
Antsiranana.
32.   Working and operating ratios improved over the last five years by an average of 9%
annually. Operating ratios decreased from 158% in 1989 to 100% in 1994 pointing to
achievement of the objective of operating cost recovery. The working ratio also decreased,
from 78% in 1989 to 52 % in 1994.
33.   Although financial results were not satisfactory, substantial improvements were noted
in the ports' financial management. A commercial accounting system was set up through
technical assistance within the project. Depreciation is now reflected in the financial statements
(albeit not in the amounts necessary to ensure proper and sound maintenance and renewal
policies), and financial situations have been submitted annually, most of the time within six
months after year-end. In addition, precise information on the port sector's financial situation,
6See Glossary of Terms Used in Financial Management: GP 10.03 Annex A



8
lacking in 1987, now, allows complementary actions to take place such as the establishment of
a cost recovery system.
34.   Environmental Impact.   By paving areas, improving the drainage system and
removing shipwrecks, rehabilitation works had a positive environmental impact.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
1. Major Factors Affecting the Project
35.   Factors not generally subject to government control, which created a gap between
actual and expected outcome, included: (a) project design--the inclusion of several ports made
the project very demanding for the Borrower and substantially affected the achievement of all
project objectives; (b) overestimation of traffic volume, which in several ports reduced
substantially the expected benefits; (c) steady devaluation of Malagasy Franc, which affected
differently the financial results of SEPT and DTM; and (d) the exceptional events including
cyclones and political events which in the end caused many delays in project implementation.
36.   Factors generally subject to government control included:  (a) cumbersome
administrative procedures for contract signing; (b) unavailability of the Malagasy financing
contribution at the contracted times; and (c) the arrangement of a subsidiary loan to make funds
under the credit available to SEPT, which resulted in many delays.
37.   Factors generally subject to implementation agency control included: (a) slowness in
the signing, as well as completion, of study contracts, which led to many delays in the
implementation; (b) weakness in project monitoring which made project management and
follow-up difficult; (c) lack of competencies in DTM staff; and (d) inadequacy of preliminary
studies for the dredging component.
2. Project Implementation
a. Rehabilitation/Provision of Infrastructure and Equipment
38.   Rehabilitation and Enhancement of Port Infrastrcture.  Civil works covered quays
and slipways, preparation and paving yards, utilities such as electric and water distribution,
drainage and lighting. Most of these works were carried out on time, except "coffres
d'amarrage" in Antsiranana. Two operations concerning the rehabilitation of the lighthouse of
" I'lle aux Prunes" and the refection of the mole C in Toamasina were started just before the
closing of the credit and have been partly financed under the Cyclone Damage Repairs Project
(Credit 2625-MAG).
39.   Improvement to Cargo Handling. The handling and carrying equipment was financed
by KfW in DTM ports. The loan was divided into three parts. Equipment was delivered on
time according to the initial plan for the two first parts of the loan; for the third some delay
resulted from the slowness of contract signing procedures.



9
b. Shipping Services
40.   Dredging. Many problems arose during the execution of dredging works; as a result,
only 50% of the desired objectives were met. The initial idea of having these works done by a
specialized enterprise was changed, because of non responsive bidding process on dredging
works and technical difficulties in the concemed ports not identified at the time of appraisal, in
favor of a technical assistance contract with the maritime Seaways Department (SVM) to
repair three dredgers. Later the dredging works were done by the administration on force
account. These changing arrangements resulted in a reduction in the impact of this component
and many delays in its implementation. Three of the five ports initially targeted for this
operation (Mahajanga, Nosy Be and Antsiranana), were withdrawn, while Port Saint Louis was
added; Port Toliara was simply cleaned at the quay level.
41.   Navigation Aids. This component was to include a hydrographic survey and purchase
of equipment to renew lighthouse beacons in the interests of safer port access.  The
hydrographic survey was given up because of its high cost and technical difficulties.
42.   Spare Parts for Private Companies. The purchase and distribution of spare parts for
the coastal navigation fleet and handling companies did not take place. Most private companies
involved preferred to purchase spare parts with their own funds, which was not envisaged at
appraisal because of then prevailing foreign exchange regulations.
cG Additional Components
43.   Additional Project Components.  Due to damage caused by cyclones to the port of
Toamasina in early 1994, it was agreed that repairs would be funded under the project; for this
purpose, about US$ 1.2 million was transferred from DTM ports to Toamasina. Rehabilitation
works concerned the slipway, the quay C and the procurement of a lot of equipment and spare
parts. The latter operation had not been carried out entirely before the closing date of the credit
but has since been completed under the Cyclone Damage Repairs Project. Some additional
rehabilitation works on waterfront structures were carried out in the Ports of Toliara and
Tolagnaro, financed by MIM, with the agreement of IDA.
d Disbursements and Project costs
44.   Disbursements.  Chart 1 of Part Ell compares actual with estimated disbursements.
The delays can be traced to a slow start-up during the first three years exacerbated by the
political and social events of 1991. The credit was not entirely disbursed; about 18 percent had
to be canceled on March 31, 1995; 13 percent of financing committed by other donors was also
canceled. CFD disbursed about 75% of the US$ 10 million foreseen at appraisal. Having
suspended disbursements upon SEPT's freezing of the reform process, CFD had pledged that
reactivating of institutional reform would lead to disbursement of the remaining part Such
disbursements did not materialize, however, given SEPT's protracted response to CFD's
demand. KfW disbursed only 88% of its committed amount, due to both administrative delays
and the political events of 1991. Local sources provided only US$ 1.2 million of the planned



10
US$ 3.8 million, largely due to the steady devaluation of the Malagasy Franc which prevented
the Government from keeping its commitments.
45.   Project Costs. The final project cost was US$ 27.4 million, net of taxes and duties,
compared with US$ 34.8 million estimated at appraisal. The difference between actual and
foreseen costs is explained by the high amounts allocated to contingencies in the SAR (about
30 percent of base cost). Actual costs for each component were in line with those estimated
except for dredging, whose costs were 138 per cent the projected level. DTM ports and
Toamasina accounted for 40 percent and 60 percent of total costs respectively. In DTM ports,
the highest share of investmnent was in infrastructure, while over 50 percent of total investrnent
in Toamasina was in cargo handling equipment. Detailed project costs are given in Table 8A
of Part m and in Annex 2.
D. Project Sustainability
46.   For Toamasina, the project appears sustainable. Economic benefits generated are
likely to continue, particularly when privatization of some activities (such as cargo handling) is
undertaken, as proposed by a French study. Regarding equipment, efforts are needed to set up
a cost recovery system that would ensure sound maintenance and renewal policies.
47.   Technical assistance and training which improved staff skills in financial management
at DTM ports are certain to enhance future financial performance. MTM staff have become
more conscious of the impact of port efficiency on transport costs. However, continued efforts
are needed to improve staff technical, financial and managerial skills. Dredging and civil work
components are unlikely to be sustainable unless an adequate follow-up program for
infrastructure and equipment maintenance is properly designed, funded and carried out.
E. Bank Performance
48.   Identification.  Bank performance was satisfactory. At the time of identification, all
aspects of the port and coastal shipping subsector exhibited need for priority investment, giving
rise to the project.
49.   Appraisal. The importance of the maritime sector and especially coastal shipping led
the Bank to consider a large-scale nationwide project.  However, financing constraints
restricted achievement of the project's objectives.
50.   Implementation and Supervision.  The implementation of the project was closely
tracked by the Bank. On average, two to three missions per year were assigned to supervision
during the implementation period. These missions focused on the DTM ports, given the low
performance of DTM services in charge of project implementation. Many adjustments were
made during the supervision missions, such as allocating more funds for training, canceling the
proposed hydrographic survey as well as the procurement of oversized equipment in Nosy Be.
However, the frequency of supervision missions exceeded the pace of the project's progress,
leading to a repetition of recommendations in two or more successive memoranda. The
Borrower has also noted some delays, on the part of the Bank, in answering correspondence in
particular with regard to tender documents.  Further, due to the length of project



11
implementation, Bank supervision staff changed frequently over time. This caused additional
difficulties in project follow-up. Also worth noting is the virtual absence of accounting for the
project accounts, with the first audit for the project accounts performed as late as 1993 for
1992 accounts . Table 13 shows the limited participation of financial analysts in supervision
missions.
51.   Relations with Cofinanciers. With cofinancing from other organizations, the project
suffered from a lack of coordination in its preparation as well as follow-up. This was true even
on joint missions of the Bank and CFD. The project could have benefited from more effective
leadership, which the Bank, given its large participation therein, was likely the best suited to
provide.
F. Borrower Performance
52.   Borrower performance was different between the port of Toamasina and DTM ports:
in Toamasina it was generally satisfactory during all the stages of the project, but was deficient
during implementation and operation for the DTM ports.
53.   Financial and technical indicators of performance show good results for the port of
Toamasina; notwithstanding some delays, all covenants were complied with. For DTM ports,
however, a lack of competencies was noted. The management capability of MTM staff was
inadequate for the project, contributing to many delays in complying with covenants and in the
treatment of tender documents. Moreover, the dispersion of the ports across the island made
the task of the centralized authority harder. Determination of actual costs and their distribution
was also difficult due to the absence of a clear and detailed database of the different contracts
within the project. The allocation of costs per port --indispensable for the economic re-
evaluation-- was completely absent or very unclear.
G. Assessment of Outcome
54.   The project's overall outcome was satisfactory. Despite numerous hurdles, it achieved
many of its objectives. It was supposed to prevent degradation of the Malagasy Ports
subsector, which it broadly did. The rehabilitation works and the acquired equipment have
endowed the DTM ports with the necessary means to perform their activities. They enabled
SEPT to support a strong level of activity and good financial results. At the same time,
institutional reforms and technical assistance have enhanced the efficiency of the port sector
management. However, the project's national scope served to dilute and impair its impact on
each individual port. Devaluation of the Malagasy Franc, although beneficial for SEPT,
restricted the achievement of the DTM ports' financial objectives. Finally, cumbersome
administrative procedures and the exceptional events (cyclone damage and the 1991 political
events) that occurred towards the end of the project generated important delays in its
implementation, which took ten years (identification in 1983).



12
H. Future Operation
55.   To upgrade the status of the ports sector, other projects have to be undertaken. Ports
such as Toliara, Mahajanga and Antsiranana are potential candidates for such operations.
Future efforts should:
(a)   emphasize the importance of maintenance works to ensure that investment
lasts;
(b)   reorganize the ports sector by developing in the three main regional ports
(Toliara, Mahajanga, and Antsiranana) autonomous entities and involving
private sector participation in Toamasina;
(c)   study and implement a cost based tariff system indexed on a stable currency,
especially for DTM ports, and examnine the scope for harmonizing SEPT's
tariffs with those of other ports in the Indian ocean for SEPT;
(d)   ensure the implementation of an efficient cost recovery system to finance
ongoing maintenance and renewal equipment as required; and
(e)   simplify administrative and customs procedures, especially for coastal
shipping.
56.   For future operations the Bank should invest IDA resources in infrastructure rather
than equipment. Although infrastructure costs more and did not achieve as high a rate of return
as compared to equipment (see comparison between Toamasina and other ports in Table 2B of
Annex 1), it has longer life and more durable benefits. Equipment has lower costs than
infrastructure and leads to a higher rate of return when appropriately sized, but has shorter life
if not properly maintained and can be financed through means other than IDA resources. When
the Borrower invests in equipment, the Bank should ensure that the Borrower takes all
necessary actions to allocate necessary funds for maintenance and renewal of this equipment,
or implement an efficient cost recovery system to provide for ongoing financing needs.



13
I. Key Lessons Learned
57.   Future efforts should seek to:
(a)   ensure the capacity of the implementing agencies for new operations as well as
the availability of local funds indispensable for project implementation;
(b)   design projects that are well focused and limited in their scope (in contrast to a
project as complex as the present one, involving two implementing agencies,
four cofinanciers and 10 ports, for a credit of only US$ 16 million).
(c)   contract maintenance works to private operators rather than by force account,
whose drawbacks are illustrated by the fate of the dredging component.
(d)   set up an effective system  for managing the information necessary for
supervision and implementation completion reporting (for the Bank, major
documents kept in staff members' offices should be logged to be located easily;
For the Borrower, an adequate system for collecting information --such as a
contracts database-- should be set up after the beginning of the project and
supervised during the supervision missions); and
(e)   set up a sound accounting system, choose an accounting system, both
acceptable to the Bank, and accept auditing process for project accounts as a
condition of effectiveness, as such a system is a prerequisite for efficient
management of a project's financial operations.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1752-MAG
PART II: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



15
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DU SECTEIJR PORTUAIRE
CREDIT 1752-MAG
RAPP'ORT D)'ACHEVEMENT
(Y)NTRI BUTION DE L'EMPRINTEUR
1.  L'accord  (le  crc&lit  1752-MA(G  ortsar t 5ssxr la. r4habilitation  *lu  secteur
potrtuairs 8 Madagascar,  d1et4e di. 119 Fevrier 1937,  a. ete mise en vigaueur Le 17
Septembre 1987.  11 a ete cl6tulbre le 31 Deocemhcre 1994.
Le  monitant  dl.a pr#'t est de, 13.200 0(0) ET'D tirnt 9.900.0Y)0 EMS> a etie  gere
par  Ie  Ninisti-re  des  Traraort,s  et  de  la.  t&orologie  (MM)  pour  la.
rehas.ilit.t,ion  des neuf pcirrinci-paux poirts secondrliies (Arttsirarnaa_,  N<osy  Be.
Port, Sainrt Lis-,as  M  ge., Morondajva8._ Toliac.y, Tola,gnrgxo, Mmainkara., VohufiLar)
et,  le  reste gyre p.r la Sx- i4t4 d' Expo1itatiorn  ia Port dle Toamesina. (SEPT)
pour la rehabilita.tion de ce pr-.emi-r port princIcipal.
Le -present rapport traite l.a partie diu projet gere paIsr Ie MM-
2.1. Les obiectifs du Proiet
Les  objectifs  du  projet &t.aient de remettre eni etat  l'infrastruecture  de
certains ports.  de dtiveloLpper la capacit6 instit.utionnelle a gerer, exploiter
et  entretenir  le sous-secteur ties ports et les biens y  appartenant,  et  de
minimiser les aleas dle la navigation.
En  'me &'atteindre lesdits objectifs,  le projet comprenait les  parties
suivantes:
A. Remise en etat et am4lioration des infrastrnctures rortuaires:
- Ex6cution des travatux urgents de r@paration des struetures de quais des
ports de Manakara. Toliary. Vohl&mar. Morondava. MIaajanga. Nosy-Be et Port
Saint LOuis.
- Construction  dtrun  nouveau quai et dun] remblai en  terre  a Vohb&mar.
construcltion  d%n  nouveau slipway A Manakara et construction d'ine  nouvelle
rampse c'accs pour passagers a Mahajaiga.
- Preparation  et revetement d-environ 70.0(0 nil de terre-plein dan3  les
ports de Manakara.  Tolagnaro,  Toliary.  Voh4mar. Morondava. Mahajanga. Saint
Louis et Antsiranania:  et construction de rampes de chargement et dechargement
des camions.
- Construction d't%n batiment admini3tratif A Toliary- Travaux de  voirie
et r6seaux divers dans les rorts de Manakara, Toliary, Tolagnaro et Morondava.
B. Modifications et Amiliorations de mmnutention rortuaire:
- Achat et montage si nrkessaire de materiel de manutention portuaire, de
pi&ces d6tachees, de mat6riaux. d'outila et de mat.eriel pour tous les ports du
Projet o6rt?s par le MTM.



16
C. Aides A la navigation maritime:
- Ex6cution des travauLz de dragage A Mahajanga, Tolagnaro. Toliary et
Manakara; achat de mat6riel et pikees detzache&es pour IVex&cution de ces
travatux et r6habilitation de la drague existante A Manakara-
- Fourniture de materiel flottant et installation dce nouvelles bou6es, de
fetLx,  de pices d6tacthees.  d&tunl atelier cie r6p,aration mobile, et de systemes
de commiunications radi ophoniilues at tA l6phoniques-
- Achat et distribution de piA-ces detach4&es pour la flotte de cabotage et
les compeagnies de maaiutention, y compris leur montage e-ventuel-
D. D6velor'Dement et rAforme des institutions
- Formation  de  certains employ6s dulqMM,  y compris octroi de  bourses
d '6tudes-
- Renforcement des capacit6s du  TM datans la gestion des ports et dans les
techniques correspondantes.
2.2. Evaluation des actions entreririses
A. Remise en 6tat des infrastructure
- Les  travaux de r6eparation des structures tie quais des ports out permis
dtemp&cher  la degradation tres pouss6e des ouvrages portuaires.  Les  actions
entreprises ont pu permettre tie sauvegarder I operationnalite des lineaires de
quais  existants dLans les ports.  Des actions devraient etre poursuivies  pour
lVam6lioration du sy3ttme de defenses de quais car ce qui ont et6 r6alisees
sont  assex  pr6caires.  Par ailleurs.  les structures qui n'avaient pas  fait
l objet de  reparation  commencent actuellemetnt a se degrader  par  faute  de
maintenance durant 1-e.xecution du projet.
- Le   revetement  des  terre-pleins  a  az&liore   consid6rablement   ia
circulation  des  engins  rortuaires et.  la  restauration  oiu l'installation
d6clairage dans les ports a permis le travail de nuit.
- La  construction de rampes d-acci-s de chargement et de dechargement n'a
w  &tre  effectuee  qtfau port de Morondava.  Cette  action  aurait dui etre
comprise  dans  les dossiers techniques de rtThabilitation des  infrastructures
des ports, comme celle de Morondava. A 1iexceeption tie Morondava. la decision
de construire des rampes a 6t. prise vers la fin de 1Jex6cution du projet  et,
le  projet n a pas pU b1n6ficier d'ume assistwnce dtiun bureau d'6tudes pour la
constitution des dossiers techniques.
B. Modification et am4lioration de manutentioni rortuaire
- Cette partie a 6te financee par KFW. Les Societes de batelage ont 6t6 dotees
de  mat6riels tels que remorquetrs,  grues simples et a conteneur.  remorques.
tractetrs, chalands et des pieces de rechange.
Une  amelioration  de  IVexploitation a et6 constat6e mais  le  rendement
portuaire n a pas beaucoup accru. ac 1 erception du port de Tolagnaro.



17
C- Aide a la navigation maritime
- La renrovatioan des 4qpniperments de 1L signalisaetion maritime a. ete  ent reprise
par  ic  MAG   Le3es    c s ax  princip&uxx po.rts out et,e  r6habilit6s  mais  un
probleme  dLentretien saibsiste dba fait de 1.a carence en pi&ce de rechange  des
equijementr par faute de credit dle maintenance.
f-1-alemerat  les  rA.t.S  de Tolagna-ro,      Saint zjYiSt5  et  Toliar7  ont  pU
bt6rrficie de tra'8.Va:x de dragage -  (>s trwvaux. S'xrtcnat 4 Tolagnaro, ouit, permis
dl amAliorer  1 ex-ploitatiuor dia port. (>ela a 6ete fdamontrf.re lo7fs de l'op*ration
de sauwetage cia3 Sad de l'I-e centre la famine dule 4 la secheresse.
Les tramaux d.e dragage idars les aut-res ports deivraient e.tre poxursurias  &
1'ai(de ders trois drraffes gquli ourt ete rehasbilit,es wa *:0o3rs ria projet.
D- IMveloppement et reforme instit-uti onnel
- ['tude  l'txane  restructuratifofn ca tdad,get ann£exe dles ports a 6te  effectue-e.
MIais  la  mise  cni pla:e effective cLone  syst6me  df.  comptabilite- de  type
commercial  et  la. misc en place des r4gissenxcs de recette et de dIA*pe-re  pour
am4liorer 1a perception des redIeances et p-oxr ameliorer la gestion lPes  po)rts
nWont pas pa se faire.
Le volet reforme institutionnelle est le volet qai devrait etre entrepris
aua  cotrs  da futur projet pour garaxtir les investissements effectu6s et  les
investissements A venir.
3. Avis de 1 EmTrunteur concern'ant limplantation ija ProJet
- L.e projet a ete financ-  par les baillears de fonds ci-apres:
- Banque Mondiale
- FAC
- KIN.
Comme  il  a et6 dit, plus hauit.  le FAC a fiincancm  les 6quipements  de  la
signalisation maritime.  KEW les 6quipements portuaire et,  la Banque Mondiale
le reste.  Wlrant lxe4-x6cution dia projet,  il nWy a p:as eu beaucoup de r4tMions
de  coordlination entre les co-finaniciers et VEmpranxteur dci pmr,jet  pour  aaxer
les actions entreprises par Tlhactun vers les objectifs escompt6s du projet.
4. Les              difficult6s reneontrees roendant I'ex6cution du rpro.iet
C6te technique:
- La disp'arit.e des I:ortts et les montanits des travaux.- dlani les ports qui
nl6taient  pas asses 6leves ant ete les causes principales de la non obtention
de travaux ex&zuttes satisfaisants.
A V'avenir, il serait sauhaitable de conc-evoir an projet mains c-omplexe.
- Le  manque  de persormel qualifle et mat6riel adequat au sein  des  Services
techniques  de la Direction des Transports Mlaritimes a ete tr3e des  faiblesses
dans la celerit6 dettablissement des dossiers tecluhiqties et, egalement dans la
preparation des travauLx de dragage dans les ports.



18
Une formation dans le domaine comptabilit6 et gestion de projet pour le
personnel de pilotage de projet est n6cessaire pour une am6lioration de la
conduite  cVu3n  fust,ur  irojet  portsa.hire-   En  effet.  la. faiblesse  sur  la
comptabilite dh proijet a ete4 arincmnce *.denss les audiits du projet.
C6jt6e administrativee:
- Le probleme majeur rencontre a ete la lotu-deur de la procedure de  passation
des march6s.
C4te financi6re:
- Insuffisance chronique des fonds de contrepartie.
5. Evaluation de l'impact du rvro.iet stir la situvation financie6re des rorts
(Pour  me6mire)
6. Evaluation de -l'action de la Baniue rendant la rpriode de mise en oeuvre du
-pro.ie t
- Au d6but du. pro-jet ls Banlque a effectue detLx missions de supervision par an .
Ces missions etaient devenues tom-is fois vers la fin de I-ex&cution du projet-
La  multiplicite  ties  missionis de la  Banque  ame6iiore  consid6rablement
I ex6cution du projet.
7. Evaluation de la r-erformance de 1T ir. etiat la mise eni eouvre dul pro jet
- Une  cellule  de projet a 6te cre6e at: sein tie la Directioni des  Transports
Ilaritimes  poulr  le pilotage et coordination tiu projet- Cette cellule  a  et6
assistee  par uin  Expert pour la gestion din projet.  La  faiblesse  tie  cette
cellnle a 6te le manlque tde personnel.  surtott, en reasponsable financier ainsi
que le manque de materiel iniformatique an d6tbut et an milieu tie IVex6cution din
projet .
8. Relation entre la Banque et -VEmrir.uiteur r:endant la re6alisatio  n 2u isr MJet
- Cette relation entre la Banque et 1fEmprint-eur a et6 hacndicat7ap6e at: d6but dti
projet  par  la  faible  frequence de  mission  tie  supervision.  Elle  a  ete
considtrablement  amelioree  vers la fin tin projet par la pre&ence  permanente
dThm  responsable  de stuivi des projets aupres de la missioni r6sidente  de  la
Banque.
Enfin.  la Direction des Trawsports Ilaritimnes souhaite travailler avec la
meme  6quipe de la Banque Mondiale prur tine icontinuit6 tie la bc'nne ambiance de
collaboration.



19
PORT DE TOAMASINA
t -J SJJJL
K'~~~~~~ Lr3Yr --3= -*  -. -
*  GC UX LfttW. G @,7
Lre montant du pret prevu dans le present accord de cr6dit
est de 13.200.000 DTS. La SEPT beneficie des 1.970.000 DTS pr6vus
dans le contrat initial et qui ont ete repartis comme suit
- 1.150.000 DTS pour la r6habilitation des infrastructures
portuaires
- 820.000 DTS pour l'acquisition des equipements de
Manu:ention.
La part pr4vue a la rehabilitation des infrastructures a ete
par 'a suite augmentee de 405.000 DTS et cela & titre de
compl4ment de cr4dit.
Suite au passage du Cyclone GERALDA Fevrier 1994
300.000 DTS ont et4 octroyds a la SEPT pour la rehabilitation des
d4gAts cycloniques, pour la construction d'une cale inclinee,
pour l'a,hat des pieses de rechanges et pour la refection des
zerres-Dleins. Cette enveloppe rentre dgalement dans le cadre d-
zr4dit 1752 MAG.
Au total, la SEPT a b4n4fici4 d'un cr6dit de 3.175.000 DTS
dans le cadre de ce credit 1752 MAG.
2-     2-2. L'S OJECTIFS DU PROJET
Faisant r4ference A l'accord de credit entre la R4publique
.e Madagascar et l'Association Unr-ernationalb  de D4veloppement
'1 IDA) 4tabli 1- 2'1 octobre 1986, les objectifs du projet sont
*i4crits comms ci-apres
A - Remise en etat et Amalioration des infrastructures
-x4c-^uticn des travaux de r4paration des quais du Port
do Toamasina
- Rev§temen: d'environ 70.000M2 de terres-pleins,
.onstruction d'ateliers d'entretien et de travaux
*'4clairage , de drainage d'adduction d'eau et de
distribution d'4lectrici±t  au Port de Toamasina.
B - Amelioration de la l'anutention portuaire
- Achat de mat4riels de manutention -
- Rdamenagement du systeme de transport du minera
chrome                                             O 34JD
- Achat d'un stock de pieces detachees, de materixfiOt
d-'outillage y compris leur montage 4ventuel   c00
'' ~ ~   t:S:- .= -    '    .a                                            00
00
- atej t5};t
............                      f/f7  96
AnsA' $LIXS4ta.      .        , - A F. IJJJ
£9' In  sZ    s        - s .~  rS'X/5 s:9'0a.A 3- YStr. JJS.ScV
* .*! *      .J     W Zt.nOM     / .}-U



20
C - Developpement Institutionnel
- Renforcement de la capacite de la SEPT dans la gestion
des Ports et des Techniques correspondantes
- Eormation d'un certain nombre d'agents de la SEPT, y
compris l'octroi des bourses d'etudes.
2-2 EVA!UJATION DES ACTIONS ENTREPRISES
A - DRns 1'ensemble les trvaux de rehabilitation des
i-frastructures portuaires sont achev4s dont
- La r6habi.itation des terres- pleins
M Mole A'( 15.000 M2)   207.697,72 DTS
Xole-B (40.000 M2) - Voie d'acces au Port 12.000 M2)
628.145,74 DTS.
. Mole C ( 67.003 M2)   1.522.471,83 DTS
B - Am4liora ion de la Manutention
Le crvit 1i752 MAG,  prevoyant l'acquisition des materiels
a5 ndra-lement d'origine non francaise, a permi d'acheter
- des chariots dlevateurs
- et des pi_ces de rechange 6values A 780.000 DTS
_ut   a -'accord de crsdit compl4mentaire de 800.000 DTS en
1994, le Port Ce Toamasina a entrepris la construction d'une cale
inch inre cl= 200.000 DTS, travaux entierement acheves, l'achat des
pilces  de  rechange  de  100.000  DTS  et  avec  le  reste,  la
fina'isation des travaux de refectior. du Mole C touche par le
cyclons GIFAIDA, dont le marche est en cours d'6x6cution. Notons
qae c'-st les derniers travaux en cours d'achevement, prevu fin
Mai- 19g95.
C - D6veloppemnnt Institutionnel
La restructuratiLon du systeme de Gestion permet A la SEPT de
bien suiv-re l'4volution de ses d6penses et recettes et d'adopter
une politique de gestion bas6e sur un equilibre budg4taire.
Suivant  le d6cret 85.282  du 04  Septembre  1985  le Port  de
Toamaisna est regJe par le droit commun des Soci6t6s Anor.ymes.
Cette disposition rend fa-le  l'am6lioration de la qualite de
o-sticn de type priv6 et ceci par V'application du systs'me de
comptabilit4 de type co.mmercial. Le changement institutionnel
permet a 'a ES?T de proc6der facilement a la correction de ses
tarifs gen6raux.
3 -  AVIS DE L'EM?RUNTEUJR CONCERNANT LE PROJET
Du fait que le cr4dit 1752 MAG est le resultat d'un accord
tripartite  BANQUE  MONDIALE/ETAT/SEPT,  mat6r(iellement  c'est
l'E'at qui emprunte aupres de la Banque Mondiale, pr§t qu'il
retrocbde A la SEPT par la suite. Et ce qui fait que la SEPT
subit la '.ourdeur de la procedure administrative.



21
A - LES PRINCIPALES DIFFICULTES RENCONTREES PENDANT L'EXECUTION
DU PROJET
Pour memoire)
5- -VALUATTIO: ^- L'IMPACT DU PROJET SUR LA SITUATION FINANCIERE
DE LA SEPT
aC r6habilit4ioon des infrastructures et les acquisitions des
Frj4rie's d ex:loitation ont permis a la SEPT d'ameliorer ses
actifvieS 6e  le rendement portuaire. Cette amelioration ne peut
-''R   eurs  gu' avoir  un  impact  positif  sur  ses  situations
d'e:ploitatior. et financi4re.
'n peut dire en effet qu'A l'heure actuelle, la SEPT peut
fa-re  face  au  renouvellement   de  ses  equipements  et  au
..e;bo.irsement de ses creanciers. N'anmoins, compte tenu du volume
5.e l'endettement en monnaie etrangere, on ne peut pas dire, par
-ontre que l1impact de la politique de change menee par le
G-ouvernement n'est pas sans effet. Les differences de change
-tant A la charge de l'emprunteur, c'est A dire de la SEPT, cet
aea  repr6sente  A terme,  un  goulot  d'etranglement  pour  la
structure financ--re. Aussi pour pallier A ce probleme est-il
n6cessaire, tout d'abord, de reeva'luer les actifs et de proceder
ensuite  au  changement  de  1a  structure  institutionnelle
transfert aux opdrateurs prives de certaines activit6s).
T1 serait souhaitable que la SEPT pour les credits A venir
-G..tractera  directem-nt  avec  les  bailleurs  de  FOnds  sans
interrgddiaire et cela afin de pouvoir all6ger le service de la
z'et  et b, 4ficier d'run taux d'int4er§- moindre.
5 - EVr;A:"I DE L1ACTION  DE LA BANOU  MONDIALE -  PE IN DAI"T LA
^-E?-IDE DE MITSE EN OEUV?E DU PRC'jET
res experts de la Banque Mondiale ont effectu6 pdriodiquement
-'e mssions dce supervision au Port de Tc.amasina. Ces missions ont
!-rris au: deux parties des echanges dce vue tres enrichissanrles
-i.in  A I'ex6cution du projet.



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1752-MAG
PART IH: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Achievement of objectives      Substantial         Partial         Negligible     Non applicable
Macro policies                     Dl                0                El                El
Sector policies                    El               0                 Dl                Ol
Financial objectives               Dl                01               El                O]
Institutional development          Ol                02               °°
Physical objectives                0                  l               E                 E
Poverty reduction                  D                 ElO El                             R
Gender issues                      El                Ol               El                0
Other social objectives                              EEl                                R
Environmental objectives           El                0                E                 E
Public sector management           El                1                E                 E
Private sector development         El                El               0                 E
Project sustainability            Likely                 Unlikely                Uncertain
Infrastructure                      0                       El                      E
Cargo Handling                      0l                                              El
Shipping                            El                      E0
Institutional development           0l                      O                       E
Bank performance            Highly satisfactory        Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                     a                       0                       E
Preparation assistance             E                       0                        E
Appraisal                          a                       0                       E
Supervision                        D                       El                        4
Borrower performance        Highly satisfactory        Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                        El                      0f                      F
Implementation                     El                      E l5
Covenant compliance                a                       El                      El
Operation                          El                      El                       05
Highly              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Highly unsatisfactory
satisfactory
Assessment of outcome           El                R               El                  El
'Substantial for Toamasina and negligible for other ports
2Substantial For Toamasina and partial for other ports
3Likely for Toamasina, unlikely for other ports
4Substantial improvements were noted from 1992
5Satisfactory for Toamasina, deficient for other ports



23
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits6
Credit 200-MAG                11.4 million dollars       1970        Closed    The physical objectives were
Port of Tamatave project     would be spent over                                satisfactory achieved by the
three-year period for                              project completion date .
construction of new                                However many difficulties
berths, purchase of cargo                          were faced in achieving
handling equipment and                            institutional objectives.
provision of consulting                           Those difficulties were
services to provide                               essentially due to the low
adequate facilities for                            productivity levels, the poor
traffic projected until                           financial performance of the
1979 and establishment                            port authority and the
of an operationally and                            unsuitability of people
financially autonomous                             employed for top executive
port authority                                     posts.
Table 3: Project Timetable
..........    .....................,..                     ............,. . ...................................
Identification                                                            July, 1983
Preparation                                                            June-July, 1984
Appraisal                                                                April, 1986
Credit negotiations                                                  October 27-30, 1986
Board presentation                                                     January 6, 1987
Credit signature                                                      February 19, 1987
Credit effectiveness                                                 September 17, 1987
Credit completion                 September 30, 1992                    June 30, 1994
Credit closing                      March 31, 1993                   December 31, 1994
6Includes projects in ports and waterborne transports



24
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
March 31, 1987                  1.0                         0.0                         0
June 30, 1987                   1.6                         0.0                          0
Sept. 30, 1987                  2.2                         0.0                         0
Dec. 31, 1987                   2.9                        0.69                         24
March 31, 1988                  3.7                        1.73                         47
June 30, 1988                   4.5                        1.79                         40
Sept. 30, 1988                  5.3                        1.79                         34
Dec.31, 1988                    6.1                        1.87                         31
March 31, 1989                  6.9                        1.93                         28
June 30, 1989                   7.7                        2.16                         28
Sept. 30, 1989                  8.5                        3.63                         43
Dec. 31, 1989                   9.3                        4.58                         49
March 31, 1990                 10.1                        5.73                         57
June 30, 1990                  10.8                        7.13                         66
Sept. 30, 1990                  11.5                       7.42                         64
Dec. 31, 1990                  12.2                        7.79                         64
March 31, 1991                 12.8                        7.79                         61
June 30, 1991                   13.4                       8.09                         60
Sept. 30, 1991                 14.0                        8.09                         58
Dec. 31, 1991                  14.5                        8.49                         58
March 31, 1992                 15.0                        9.84                         66
June 30, 1992                  15.4                        9.84                         64
Sept. 30, 1992                 15.7                        10.14                        65
Dec.31, 1992                   16.0                        10.33                        65
March 31, 1993                                             10.95                        68
June 30, 1993                                              11.39                        71
Sept. 30. 1993                                             11.69                        73
Dec. 31, 1993                                              11.83                        74
March 31, 1994                                             12.21                        76
June30, 1994                                               12.62                        79
Sept. 30. 1994                                             12.77                        80
Dec. 31, 1994                                              13.58                        85
March 31, 1995                                             14.68                        91



25
Chart 1: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ESTIIATE AND ACTUAL DIS BURS EMENTS
16  _______________________>________ ____             __         _
8 - ./ -_-i- - - - - + ~~~~~~~~~~Estimate|
; 6 _ _ _ _/ f 7_ _ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual|
6      gf'              - -- -- -- - --  -   -- ---- -- - -  --- - -
10
87     88      89      90      9 1     92      93      94      95
Quarte rs
Table 5: Project Implementation7
Port infrastructure                              1990              1990
Cargo handling equipment                       1990-92             Most floating crafts in 1990
Dredging and equipment                          1991               1993
Navigation aids                                Mid 92              Equipment delivered, civil works 93-94
Hydrographic survey vessel                      1990               Postponed du to high costs
Institutional development                      Mid 92              Toamnasina 1991, other ports on going
External training completed
7No indicator of project execution was defined at the time of appraisal.



26
Tables 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 6A: Actual and Estimated Productivity per Port (tons of dry cargo per day)
250     275      300        325        350        375        400        425      450
____Actual  ______    n.a       n.a      n.a        480        510       1179        570        828      na
Estimate               170      185     200        225        250        275        300        325      350
Actual                 n.a      n.a      n.a        117        180       200         270        220      n.a
Manakara 
Estimate               160      180     200        220        240        250        260         270     280
Actual                 n.a      n.a      n.a       270        292        235        205         253      na
Tolagnaro
Estimate               200      220     240        250        260        270        280         290     300
Actual                 n.a      n.a      n.a       171        166         165       242         247      n.a
Toliara
Estimate               170      185     200        215        230        245        260        275      290
Actual                 n.a      n.a      n.a       354        291        660        370        453       n.a
Morondava_7
Estimate               90       105      120        130       140        ISO         160        170      180
Actual                 n.a      n.a      n.a        n.a       135         n.a        n.a        n.a      n.a
Mahajanga
Estimate               200      215     230        245        260        270        280         290     300
Actual                 n.a      n.a      n.a       603        606        612         744        786      n.a
Nosy-Be
Estimate               100      115      130        145        160        180       200         220     240
Actual                 n.a      n.a      162        n.a        n.a        n.a        197        435      n.a
Pt louis
Estimate               170      170      170        170        170        180        190        200     210
Actual                 n.a      n.a      n.a        n.a        548        157        258        171      n.a
In the SAR, the estimations of productivity were given only for 1986, 1988, 1990, and 1992,
values in the table corresponding to other years were obtained by linear interpolation.



Table 6B: Actual and Estimated Traffic Per Port (DTM)    27
Estimak             ~~~~~93.47  103.20    112.93    122.66    132.40    135.34    138.28   141.22    144.16|
Actual              ~~~~~98.67  88.87    57.74      107.86    135.04    111.00    130.88   162.63    191.46 
Estimate                   25.20      28.10     31.00      33.90     36.80     37.66      38.52    39.3S     40.24 
Actual                     39.70      39.70     34. 70   170.00      80.00     90.00     152.98    81.16 145.63  |
Vohemar
Dry cargol
Estimate                   23.30      23.90     24.50      25.10     25.70     26.14      26.58    27.02     27.46
Actual                      14.88     5.57      14.44      16.68      16.03     11.57     18.91    13.78      7.29 |
OilI
Estimate                    6.27      6.70      7.13        7.57      8.00      8.20      8.40     8.60       8.80 |
Actual                      5.73      5.73  1 6.35          7.00      9.23  1 6.41        9.42     8.04  1 9.90 |
Manakaral
Dry cargol
Estimate                   54.20      54.95     55.70      56.45     57.20      58.28     59.36    60.44     61.52|
Actual                      50.21     34.11     26.17      14.82     29.33      15.25     19.22    16.62     13.24|
Oill
Estimate                    14.87     16.15     17.43      18.72     20.00     21.18      22.36    23.54     24.72|
Actual                      17.88     11.94     15.02      12.70      19.55     16.53     15.06    15.48     15.45 
Tolagnarol
Dry cargol
Estimate                   28.63      29.95     31.27      32.58     33.90      36.02     38.14    40.26     42.38
Actual                     23.88      16.40     19.88      17.53     25.73      32.66     48.27    27.86     20.86
OilI
Estimate                    7.33      7.75      8.17        8.58      9.00      9.22      9.44     9.66       9.88 |
Actual                      6.16      6.42      4.09        4.80      7.38      6.82      7.26     6.62       7.30
Toliara                                        _     __                                    
Dry cargol
Estimate                    57.80     60.75     63.70      66.65     69.60      68.78     67.96    67.14     66.32
Actual                      59.88     32.50     32.20      50.50     71.78     44.51      52.56    64.87     80.18|
OilI
Estimate                    14.83     14.75     14.67      14.58      14.50     14.86     15.22    15.58     15.94
Actual                      18.36     18&36 1 9.94          11.10     12.09 111.66        12.01    14.14     17.42|
Morondaval
Dry cargol
Estimate                   28.05      27.55     27.03      26.52     26.00      27.00     28.00    29.00     30.00|
Actual                      3.18      12.34     12.03      15.32      9.72      8.20      7.72     5.30       5.30 |
OilI
Estimate                    7.20      7.90      8.60        9.30      10.00     10.00     10.00    10.00     10.00|
Actual                      7.73      7.73      8.33        7.70      6.40  15. 72        3.60     n oo       R 0.0
Mahajangal
Dry cargol
Estimate                   160.53    166,55    172.57      178.58    184.60    186.06    187.52   188.98    190.44|
Actual                     40.49      46.28     40.99      113.13    128.85    100.26    101.80   118.44     96.94|
OilI
Estimate                   53.47      55.50     57.53      59.57     61.60     63.92      66.24    68.56     70.88
Actual                      51.52    51.52      59.14      55.95     50.97      66.03     49.53    92.67      75.18
Nosy Be
Dry casgol
Estimate                                                             34.70     35.20      35.70    36.20     36.70
Actual                     28.91      29.81     29.80      32.59     61.39     32.58      37.28    38.73     13.42|
Oill
Estimate                                                             23.00     23.64      24.28    24.92     25.56 
Actual                      80.57     80.57     37.20      17.42     17.10      11.72     6.33     38.38     35.14|
St-Louisl
Dry cargol
Estimate                                                             60.80     59.32      57.84    56.36     54.88
Actual                      21.59     39.04     35.63      44.53     60.05      40.23     26.90    45.20     28.87|
OilI
Estimate                                                              9.00      9.22      9.44     9.66       9.88 
Actual           __         0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00      1.65      2.12      1.03     0.12       0.12   |
Total                                                                                                                1
Dry cargol
Estimate                   445.98    466.85    487.70      508.54    624,90    632.14    639.38   646.62    653.86l
Actual                     341.69    304.93    268.88      412.95    537.92    396.25    443.53   493.43    457.56l
Oill
Estimate                   129.17    136.85    144.53      152.22    191.90    197.90    203.90   209.90    215.90l
Actual                    2-27.65    221.97    174.77       186.67     204.37    217.00    257.2LL256.61 J_206.14



Charts 2A: Actual and Estimated Traffic Per Port                                              28
Antsiranana: Actual and Estimated Dry                                                           Vohemar: Actual and Estimated Dry
cargo traffic                                                                                 cargo traffic
200.00                                                                                        3000
180.00
16000                                                                                         250
140.00
20.00
120 00
1  0000                                  1                                                   15.00
oargo 8000fic                                                                                 cargotrc10.00
60.00
4000                                                                                          5.00
20.00
000                                                                                          0 00
19B6  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991 1992  1993  1994                                           1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992 1993  1994
E- _                                                                                           1111Estimate|  Estimate
|    - +   Actual  |                                                                                    Actual
Manakara: Actual and Estimated Dry                                                            Tolagnaro: Actual and Estimated Dry
cargo traffic                                                                                 cargo traffic
70.00                                                                                          50 00
45 00
60.00    ...
40 00
n  3 5.00
30.00
in 25.00
20.00
C)
20 00                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15.00
10.00
10.00
0 00                                                                                           0.00
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994                                          1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1992  1993  1994
Estimate                                                                          ll-_    Estimate
Actual                                                                                        Actual
Toliara: Actual and Estimated Dry cargo                                                          Morondava: Actual and Estimated Dry
90 00                ~traffic300                                                                                cargo traffic
so 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50
70 00250
60.00                                                                                          20.00
*~50.00
I00
a, 40.00 
20                                                                                          0
5.00
10 00
0 00                                                <.0.00                                                 -
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994                                   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Estimate                                                                           EE~stimeate
- -  Actual                                                                               -         Actual



29
Nosy-Be:Actual and Estimated Dry cargo                                                              Saint Louis: Actual and Estimated Dry
traffic                                                                                      cargo traffic
70 00                                                                                               ;0.00
60.00                                                                                               60.00
50 00 - .      :   ..........  .~ .  .'/  \,9, '        ..............   :                   n      50.00
e v  ,,,   z                                                                                          40 0 0
200
19B6   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994                                        1986  1987  19BB   1989  1990   1991  1992  1993   1994
¢ +   Actual                              _                                                             Actual
r---
Mahajanga: Actual and Estimated Dry
;                          e~~~~~argo traffic
200.00.    .    ...   ..   ,,  ^,, , .40.
4000~~~~~~~~~~~100
120.00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~200
Estimate ~   ~                                                                          Eststiaat
---~~~ ~ ~    ~      Actual                               A|ua
Totl:  ctul ad  stiate Oi MafficToga: Actual and Estimated Drycag
200.00
80.00
60 .00
u 140 00
-   20.00
4000
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
E|timate
+   Actual   |                                                                      |   +        Actu-aAltu;
Total: Actual and Estimated Oil traffic                                                           Total: Actual and Estimated Dry cargo
traffic
700 00
300 00
600 00
250 00
a,500 00
m  200 00 
15000                                                                                                000
100.00                                                                                              200 00           ~          .
50 0                                                                                               100 00        *'
0.00
1986  1987  1989   1989   1990  1991  1992  1993  19941986   1987   1988   1989   19,90   1991   1992   1993   1994



30
Table 6C: Toamasina: Actual and Estimated Traffic ('000 tons)
Dry cargo (International)
Estimate                                 476      470       463      457      450      457      463       470       477
Actual                                   580       510      527      564      700      534       638      700       810 *
Dry cargo (Cabotage)
Estimate                                  106      105      104      104      103       106      108      Ill       113
Actual                                    117      103      103       83       83       70       67       119       115
Oil (Intenational)
Estimate                                 315       349      383      416      450      480       510      540       570
Actual                                   322       448      594      359      522      556       442      526       559
Oil (Cabotsge)
Estimate                                  na       na       na        na       na       na       na       na         na
Actual                                    121      130      Ill      116      123       138      92        86        98
(*) Estimation obtained from the tonnage handled during the first nine months
Charts 2B: Toamasina Traffic ('000 tons)
Tm na Cog rCrToamasina: International dry Cargo
Toamasina: Cabotage dry Cargo
120                                                               900
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~800
0    1990 1991  1992  1993  1994                              8 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 700
so60
400
200
20
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994             1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994
_     Estimate                                                        Estmat
_  - + Actual                                            1       + -    Actual



31
Table 6D: Toamasina: Financial performnance indicators
Revenue
Estimate              4,796    5,905    7,292    7,692    8,120    8,557    9,015    9,497    9,803
Actual                6,488    9,996    18,190   29,905   19,518   20,741   27,968   37,756    -
Working expenses
Estimate              5,135    5,388    5,632    5,895    6,174    6,301    6,429    6,613    7,014
Actual                7,802    6,669    8,296   10,500   11,281   14,306   17,964   26,813     -
Operating result
Estimate              -357     517      1,660    1,797    1.946    2,256    2,586    2,884    2,789
Actual                -1,314   3,327    9,894   1,9405   8,237    6,435    10,005   10,943     -
Net income
Estimate              -1,081    -402    362      174      117      225      575     916      930
Actual               -4,596    471      824     1,121    1,464    1,237    3,045    3,525     -
... __ 
Estimate            f 4,200    3,660    3,580    3,510 J 3,440 [ 3,370  [ 3,360    3,300    3,300
Actual                  -      3,648  | 2,994  [ 2,582 j 2,607  | 2,534    2,422    2,385    2,296
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
................................................... ... . ..   t t s_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
| Engineering studies for sector transport project Completed     Good
1993-1997
Study in order to provide spare parts     Completed            Good



32
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ Million)
Navigation aidsandspar7Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total
INFRASTRCTURE                  2.5      3.8      6.3      2.8      4.9      7.7       122%
CARGO HADLING                  1.4     10.3     11.7      0.0      9.3      9.3        80%
Dredging                         0.4      1.4      1.8      0.7      1.8      2.5        138%
Navigation aids and spare parts  0.7      3.4      4.1      0.5      l 5      2.0        49%
Subtotal                          1.1      4.8      5.9      1.2      3.3      4.5        76%
INSTITUTIONAL DEV'T
Technical support                0.3      3.5      3.8      0.5      1.0      1.5        40%
Training                         0.6      3.2      3.8      0.1      3.0      3.1        82%
Subtotal                          0.9      6.7      7.6      0.6      4.0      4.6        69%
ENGINEERING, SUPERVISION          0.3      2.9      3.2      0.3      1.0      1.3        41%
TOTAL                             6.2   128.6      34.8      4.8   | 22.5      27.4       79%
(*) SAR's costs including physical and price contingencies.
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$ Million)
;.ffLocal  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total 
IDA                               2.4     13.6    16.0       3.7     10.6    14 3(')    89__'%_l
CFD                               0.0     10.0    10.0      0.0       7.4      7.4       74%
KfW                               0.0      2.6    2.0 ...    0.0      3.6      3.6      136% ..
FAC                               0.0      2.3     2.3       0.0      0.9      0.9       39%
Local sources                     3.8      0.0      3.8      1.2      0.0      1.2       32%
TOTAL                             6.2     28.6    34.8       4.9     22.5    27.4        79%
(*) Difference between this amount and the one stated in Table 4 (US$ 14.7 millioni) is due to different
exchange rates used in disbursments and in costs calculation.
(**) 82% when amounts are in SDR
(***) In the SAR, it was taken into account, only a part of the funds allocated by KtW to the project: US $
2.6 million. In fact, the funds allocated were US $ 4.1 millions. Only 88% of this aniount was disbursed.



33
Tables 9: Economic Costs and Benefits Per Component
AN I SI RANA NA                                                               SAINT LOLIIS
Bener fitefits         (osls          Net-heniefits                    [liear  I   Beneftis   I     Costs    I       e-enft
981  0           0                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1986  0       4
982                   (I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                  987                 0               0  ~t*~
988  II    I)                                       1q88                ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0
1989                 0         10.024              .163,0241                 1989                 0        203.264   ~T.~~
191     770I ,11                                                      990           101,5800
1991            ",5,53          331)                 33,23h                  1991            68,012               0  .-4~.60
19')2           77,27,3.        32.31)(              44.933                  1992            45.5 15              0
193     96.02          1231                  3,2                     973.834                       460.174  1.u,'g          4
1994           11.4              2.3(11              63,721                  199431,3                          .0
95     11(1,41          32.1038074                                   1994           111,134           5.600  7i. -, .,1o  100534
1`99           11.41D.308,74I1                                               1996           111.134           5,600  -.~     w,1
1996           113.041          32.31)0              80.741j                 1996           111.134           5.600   , 0"3
1998           11317            32,110               80,741j                 1998           111,134           5.600 v!2,       *-
1998           113,041          32,300               90711998                               111,134           5.600            i 
- -           d  ~~~~~~~ER8R(SRA       f.. I2] 8                                               .'.UMSMlR48% 8                   , .'
_________   XIIIIII..9R ___________                  _________         NOSY BE
1ea   I   Blenefits   I       osts    I                                      [e-enftsjYear  I   Benefits   [ Costs    T   Net-benefits    1
19)86,)1                                                                     1986                  00
1917            0~~                                                      987     ~           0               0         ~          0
1988                 (I              0                  ,                    1988                  0              0  .3SrX.
(98                   1        618,041              .140                     1989                  0         48,495 -
219911         117.834A         20.29009.                                    1990             52,41          29,300
1991            8S.049          2(0.200              64,84                   199g1            52,41          29,300
1992           139.0(5          20,20(1              I I8.80                 i992            61,209          29,300 ~
1993           101,295          20.200            .81;0951                   1993   1        66,310          29,300 lk .
1994            53.588          20,200               53341994                                40,806          29300
995             533.588        20.2001        ,     .3995                                    51,008          29,300           0
_99     __53,588            20______00,3                                 1996            51,008          29,300[A       I
197     53,588          20.2001                           1~~jS997                   51,008          29,300
1998            5358            2,00.~7~               38                    1998            51,008          29,300 
199     53.588          20.21)0                I                     1999            51,008          29,300
M_____NAHAJANGs(A                                                                    MANAKARA
1['e r      Benefits   I     Costs    I      Net-beneFits   I                 Year  I   Bcnefits-         Costs           Net-benerits
1981,                0               8                                       ] 186                0               0
19847                 30                            .                         9 87                0               0 1,j,i~
1988                 0               0                                       1988                  8        33 5,076 .. 
1989                 11        989.4134       . '98A1989                                           0        958,417
19-30          448,1197         5(50,0(1          938:                       1990           256,504         136.9371 .f
199,)1         349,7 47         50.000         ~-~299,47                     19=91           85,351               0.
1992           351.88(t         50.000  -' 1      . 301~816                  1992           168,067         789,061 ~ 
1993           415.3141         511.00( 1 ,  -.5 .  86M41                   1993   1       145,326           5,600
1994           334.4251         51000 '4;  , .,i'A*2425l                     1994           115,806           5,600 
1995           fll,424-~5       5)100110                                     1995           139,946           5,600
1996           334.425          50.000                                       1996           139,946           5,600
1917          334.425           5(10M00.e.        3                          1997           139,946           5,600
1998          3 34,425          5(1.000    ~                                  98139,946                       5,0
3949   14,4 25          50,000 .   .4,     .                         1999           1I39.9465,0
____TO LI.iRAATOLAGNA                                                                          RO
[Year       Beneit           Costs___  ]    Net-benerits                     iVa   [   Benef'its   I      Costs    I Net-benerits
1986                                                                         1 0986               0               0
1992           507,24 1_00                               24                  1992           219,323         868,813
19 Q"          5 193  8         2.0                                          1993           126,597         961,044
19Q94          49437 7,591994   1                                                            94,781          22,600
I199           495          ___655       ,,                                  1995            94.781          2,0
1996      495.655  _______ _000             _____                        1996            94,781          22,600 AM "          M 81
1997    _______655              21_____000,.                                 1997            94,781          22.600 
I1)                     ___5 __55_                  47406                    1998            94.781          22,600             ' 4 -k73   I
111      ________                                    47651999                                 94.781          22,600 '4..- -,' ,.
EIMR  45%                                                               f14K46/
PR(SAP  -29%                                                                           -8



34
MORONDAVA                                                                   TOTAL MTM
|Year  I   Benefits   I    Costs    I    Net-benefits tYear  I   Benefits    I    Costs    I    Net-benefits
19S6                 0       0                                              1986                                 0
1987                 0               0              9                      p. 1987     
1988                 0 °             0§,l;.P 4           e                 pt988                 0 o      670,114
1989                 C        468,560                 j                     198                  O       4,210,993   i     1     {@
1990            86,400               0                                      1990         1.662,717        408,594
1 99 1          72,889       .                                              1991         1 I,292,950       1 52.80  3i. 
1992            68,622               0                                      1992          1,638,724      1,810,674
1993            47,111          88613                                       1993         1,673,416       1,668,231
1994            47,111          33,300                                      19-94        1,406,348         256,859
1995            23,556          33,300                                      1995         1,417,135        219,900
1996            23,556          33,300                                      1 996        1,417,135         219,900
1997            23,556         33,300                                       1997         1,417,135        219,900
1998            23,556          33,300                                      1998         1,417,135         219,900mo u,4,4
1999           23,556          33,300                                         9 99       1,417,135        219,900    -j
NAVIGATION AIDS                                                                TOAMASINA
[Year  |   Benefits          Costs          Net-benefits                    lYear       Benefits         Costs          Net-benefits
1986                 0               ol                                     1986                 °
1987 r               °l                Ol            a                       987 1               °l° 4                           i
1988                 0               0                                      1988                 0
1989                 0                                                      198940                       2,465,866
1990           450,507        867,878                                       1990           937,629       1,479,374_
1991           162,183               0                                      1991         1,191,051       2,667,947
1992           450,507        221 ,179                                      1992         2,553,195       1,094,282
1993           202,728               0                                      1993         3,421,650          53,600
1994           450,5071      1 ,4    i,        6      _ 411994                           3,649,775          5    , 0        _    g
1995           450,507               0                                      1995         3,649,775          53,600
1996           450,507               0                                      1996         3,649,775          53,600
1997           450,507               0                                      1997         3,649,775          53,600
p1998         450.5071998                                                                3,649,775          53,600
1999  1       450,507               0                                     1999          3,649,775          53,600
() Recalculated on the same basis (32% in the SAR)
TOTAL OF THE PROJECT
[Year  &:  enerits           Costs    I    Net-beneis        |
1986                 0 °l° 
s1987                01                     _       
1988                 0 [      601 1_
19S9 1               °    6,6f,9 -
1990  1      3,050,8531      2, 5         84         _    1
p1992        4,642,426[      3,1          6        34
[993      5,297,7941         1,721,831             _
11994  1      5,506,6301     ",62           ,9      2
1995         5,517,4171       2 73        ,500_0
1996         5,517,4171        27      3    5      0
11997         5,517,4171       2    73        5       0
{P8 [  5,517,4171       273         ,5500
{1999         5,517,4171        2       3     5       0



35
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Madagascar
Ports Rehabilitation Project
DTM Portsl
|Scin3.03 b   Complete a review of level and structure of port Complied withl
related charges and by June 30, 1988 revise such
l            ~~~~~rates                                                                            l
Section 4.01 b(ii)  Submit audited report within six months   Complied with only in 1993
Section 4.02     Not to undertake investments above US$50,000  Complied with
l_____________  without consultation
Section 4.03     Beginning in 1988, take measures to ensure gross  Covering working  expenses but not full
revenues to meet operating expenses, including  depreciation in 1993. Complied with in 1994
______________  depreciation                 but the net income is still negative
SEPT
Section 3.03 b   Annually review action plan before June 30   Complied with
Section 3.03 b   Review tariffs in each fiscal year before June 30  Complied with
Section 4.01 b(ii)  Submit audited reports within six months  Complied with
Section 4.02     Not to undertake investments above US$300,000  Complied with
without consultation
Section 4.03     Beginning in 1988, provide gross revenues to meet Complied with
.._ _   operating expenses
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
|Through appraisal                             41.2                                 n.a.
|Appraisal-board                               45.2                                 n.a.
Board-effectiveness                            9.4                                  n.a.
|Supervision                                   90.5                                 n.a.
Completion                                     12                                   n.a.
Total                                         198.5                                 n.a.



36
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Identification    July-7      7         1            PE                                          1     Aug. 10, 1983
Preparation       June-84    21         3        SE, FA, PE                                     9       July 10, 1984
Preparation       Oct.-84     14        3        SE, FA, PE                                      8     Nov. 26, 1984
Pre-appraisal     July-85     7         2        SFA, SLO                                       1.5    July 29, 1985
Appraisal        Nov.-85      10        2         LO, SE                                         3      Dec. 13, 1985
Post-appraisal    Apr.-86     12        3        FA, SE, PE                                      5      May 28, 1986
Supervision I     Dec.-86     4         1           SFA             n.a.           n.a.         0.3     July, 8 1987
Supervision 2     Mar.-87     7         2         PE, FA            n.a.           n.a.         2       July, 8 1987
Supervision 3     Feb.-88     14        2          PE, SE           n.a.           n.a.         4      June 10, 1988
Supervision 4     Oct.-88     14        3        FA, SE, PE         n.a.           n.a.         6       Dec. 20, 1988
Supervision 5     June-89     14        2          PE, SE        1,1,11,2          n.a.          2      Sep. 21,1989
Supervision 6     June-90     14        2          PE, SE        1,1 1,1,2         n.a.         2.7    July 19, 1990
Supervision 7     Oct.-90    21         2          PE, SE        1,1,1,1,2     2,2, 1,2, 1,2     6      Dec. 5, 1990
Supervision 8     Mar.-91     10        2          PE, SE        1,1,1,1,2     2,2, 1,2, 1,2     3      May 6, 1991
Supervision 9     June-91     12        2          PE, SE        1,1,1,1,2     2,2,1,1,1,2      4.5      Sep. 5,1991
Supervision 10    Dec.-91     14        1            SE          1,1,1,1,2     2,2,1,1,1,2       1      Jan. 27, 1992
Supervision 11    July-92     14        2          PE, SE        1,1, 1, 1,2   2,2, 1, 1, 1,2   3.3    Aug. 24, 1992
Supervision 12   Nov.-92    17          1            SE          1,1,1,1,2      2,2,1,1,1,2     2.5     Jan. 8, 1993
Supervision 13    Jan.-93     12        2        PE, SE, FA      1,1,1,1,2     2,2,1,1,1,2      3.7     Mar. 26,1993
Supervision 14    July-93     17        2          PE, SE        1,1,1,1,2     2,2,1,1,1,2      3.7     July29, 1993
Supervision 15   Nov.-93      12        2          PE, SE        1,1,1,1,2     2,2,1,1,1,2      2.5     Jan. 5, 1994
Supervision 16    Feb.-94     14        2          PE, SE        1, l. 1, 1,2  2,2,1,1,1,2      1.5     Mar 25, 1994
Supervision 17    May-94      9         1            SE          2,1,1,2,2     2,2,1,1.1, 2     1.3    June 21, 1994
Supervision 18   Aug.-94      7         1            SE         s, s, 1, 2, 2,2    2,2,1,1,1,2   1       Sep. 6,1994
Supervision 19   Nov.-94      7         1            PE         s, s, 1, 2, 2,2    2,2,1, 1,1,2  1      Dec. 6,1994
Completion        Jan. 95     14        2          PA, C                                        4       Mar. 31 1995
Total                                                                                          83.5
SE Senior Economist
PE Port Engineer
SFA Senior Financial Analyst
C Consultant
FA Financial Analyst
SLO Senior Loan Officer
LO Loan Officer
PA Projects Assistant



APPENDICES






MADAGASCAR
MISSION D'ELABORATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
Fevrier 1994
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Projet de Rehabilitation des Ports. Credit 1752-MAG
A. Introduction
1.    Une delegation de la Banque Mondiale composee de MM. A. Lamrini (Consultant), et K.
Ben Hamida (Projects Assistant) a effectue du 24 Janvier au 7 Fevrier 1995 une mission de post-
evaluation du Projet de rehabilitation Portuaire a Madagascar. La delegation a egalement visite le
port de Toamasina (Tamatave) et le Port de Mahajanga. Par ailleurs la mission a eu des entretiens
avec les compagnies de transports maritimes (CMN, SMNTM). Le present aide-memoire reprend
les principales observations faites par la delegation apres les discussions avec les responsables de la
Direction des Transports Maritimes (DTM) et la Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina
(SEPT) ainsi que les cofinanciers du projet (CFD, FAC, KfW) et les compagnies maritimes. Il
contient les principaux points de repere qui seront developpes lors de 1'etablissement du Rapport
d'Achevement du Projet.
2.    La delegation exprime ses remerciements aux responsables de la DTM et de la SEPT ainsi
qu'aux representants des cofinanciers du projet pour I'assistance et I'aide dont ils ont fait preuve a
son egard. La liste des personnes rencontrees au cours de la mission est donnee en annexe I.
B. Etat des credits alloues au projet
3.    Le projet est quasiment acheve. La date d&  cl6ture du credit fixee initialement au 30
Septembre 1992 a et repoussee deux fois, suite aux missions de supervisions. Le credit est clos le
31 Decembre 1994. Cependant, il n'a e  debourse que 85% du montant initial prevu dans I'accord
de pret. Une partie du reliquat restant est en cours de deboursement et le reste (environ US$ 1.5
million) sera annule. Ces retards, qui ont conduit par ailleurs a I'annulation du dernier reliquat,
s'expliquent par plusieurs facteurs dont les plus importants sont:
(a)    Lenteur dans la devolution des marches d'etudes ainsi que leur realisation.
(b)    Contrepartie malgache non toujours disponible a temps pour l'engagement des
marches
(c)    Lourdeur des procedures administratives pour la passation des marches.
(d)    Dispersion des sites et leur isolement ainsi que les difficultes techniques imprevues.
(e)    Evenements politiques et sociaux deroules en 1991.
4.    II est a signaler que deux operations viennent de demarrer et ont fait l'objet d'un debut de
deboursement (rehabilitation du phare de l'ile aux Prunes et refection du mole C du port de
Toamasina). Pour ces deux operations, les travaux engages apres la date de cloture du credit seront
pris en charge par le credit d'urgence relatif aux degats cycloniques.



2
5.     Les cofinanciers du projet n'ont debourse qu'une partie du montant alloue initialement (88%
pour [a KFW et 79% pour la CFD). Ils ont aussi justifi6 ce fait, ainsi que les retards enregistres, par
la lourdeur des procedures adnministratives et la situation politique que le pays a vecu en 1991.
C. Realisation des Objectifs Physiques du Projet
6.    In?faxsrilwfires:  La inajorit6 des travaux de genie civil et d infrastructure de rehabilitation
des neuf principaux ports soUS Ia tutelle du. MTM ont et executes a temps. Ces travaux visaient a
ameliorer l tat de l'infrastrLictuLe portuaire qui joue un r6le vital dans l'economie du pays. Les
travaux effectues out permis d'ernpcher une degradation de l'infrastructure portuaire.
7.     Eqluipeinents:    Les equipements de manutention et de transport ont ete finances
essentiellement par la KtW. Ces equipernents ont ete fournis selon les delais prevus pour les deux
premi&res tranches du cr&dit, et avec quelques retards pour la derniere tranche. Ce retard est du a la
lourdeur des procedures de passation des marches. Les equipements ont permis aux ports de se doter
de moyens de manutention absents ou en tres mauvais etat avant le debut du projet. Ils ont ameliore
la capacite des ports a operer avec des niveaux superieurs. Cependant, le faible niveau du trafic dG a
la degradation de la situation economique, n'a pas permis d'exploiter pleinement ces capacites. 11
ressort de l entretien avec la KfW  que beaucoup d'equipements achetes sont actuellement en
mauvais etat. Ceci est dfi essentiellement a l'absence de maintenance. Dans les futurs projets
l'accent doit etre mis sur l importance de cette composante. 11 serait aussi preferable de financer des
equipements moins sophistiques et plus faciles a maintenir.
8.     Travauix de Dragage:  Beaucoup de problemes ont ete rencontres dans la r6alisation des
travaux de dragage. LU'idee initiale de faire faire ces travaux par une entreprise specialisee a ete
abandonnee. 11 a ete procede, A la place, a la passation d'un marche d'assistance technique au
Service des Voies Maritimes pour la remise en etat de trois dragues et la realisation des dragages par
les equipes de l'Administration. Ceci s'est traduit par une reduction des objectifs prevus dans cette
composante.
9.    Aides a la navigation:  Les aides a la navigation consistaient en une etude hydrographique
ainsi que la rehabilitation du genie civil et la renovation des equipements des feux et phares d'acces
aux principaux ports. L'etude hydrographique a ete annulee pour cause de coCGt leve. Les travaux
de genie civil ont et6 finances par l'AID. L'achat de materiels et les petits travaux de reparation ont
ete finances par le FAC. Ces operations permettent l'acces nocturne aux ports, I'amelioration de la
securite des navires et la reduction de leur temps d'immobilisation. Cependant beaucoup de
problemes de maintenance ont et rencontres. L'absence des pieces de rechange, le niveau faible
des agents par rapport aux techniques actuelles et l'insuffisance des credits d'entretien constituent
les principales causes de reduction de l'impact des objectifs consideres.



3
D. Realisation des Objectifs Institutionnels du Projet
10.    Assistance technique etformation:  L'assistance technique dont a beneficie la DTM  lui a
permis de mener le Projet a son terme. La formation, realisee sur place et a 1'etranger, a beneficie
aussi bien aux cadres qu'aux personnels de maitrise. La formation de formateurs a permis d'etoffer
le service formation du MTM. Le programme aurait pu mieux atteindre ses objectifs s'il avait
englobe les autres intervenants portuaires (Transporteurs maritimes, Douanes, Operateurs prives).
11.   Restructuration financiere:  Les resultats de la restructuration financiere diff6rent entre la
SEPT et la DTM.
DTM: Les objectifs fixes initialement pour la DTM consistant a (i) assurer un niveau de recettes
permettant la couverture des cofits en tenant compte des amortissements, (ii) reduire le personnel de
10%  et (iii) augmenter la partie du budget allouee a la maintenance, n'ont pas e  realises.
L'examen des resultats comptables du BAP (Budget Annexe de Ports) des trois dernieres annees
montre que les recettes sont insuffisantes pour couvrir les charges d'exploitation. Ceci peut etre
explique d'une part par la devaluation du Franc malgache, empechant a l'augmentation des tarifs de
repondre a l'objectif de reduction des coOts, et d'autre part par l'incorporation des investissements
rdalis6s dans le cadre du projet, dans les comptes financiers. Cependant des resultats positifs sont a
souligner dans les methodes de gestion financiere. En effet, 11 a ete passe dans le cadre du projet un
march6 d'assistance technique dans le domaine financier qui a permis l'installation d'un systeme de
comptabilit6 commerciale assurant beaucoup plus d'efficacite.
SEPT: 11 ressort de l'examen des resultats financiers de la SEPT une grande amelioration par
rapport a 1987, date du debut du projet. Une augmentation annuelle et soutenue, de son resultat
d'exploitation tres superieure aux estimations a e  enregistree.
E. Conclusions de la Mission
12.   Le projet a permis d'empecher une degradation du secteur portuaire malgache. Les travaux
de rehabilitation et les equipements achetes ont dote les ports sous la tutelle du MTM de moyens
indispensables pour assurer leurs activites. Ils ont permis a la SEPT d'assurer un bon niveau
d'activite et d'excellents resultats financiers. Les reformes institutionnelles et I'assistance technique
ont ameliore 1'efficacite de la gestion du secteur portuaire. Cependant la generalite du projet,
touchant tous les ports du pays, a reduit son impact sur chacun des ports. La devaluation du Franc
malgache a limite la realisation de ses objectifs financiers.  La lourdeur des procedures
administratives et l'occurrence d'evenements exceptionnels (degats cycloniques et evenements
politiques de 91) ont engendre beaucoup de retards dans 1'execution du projet qui s'est deroule sur
10 ann&es (identification en 1984).



4
13.   Afin d'amdliorer I'etat du secteur portuaire, d'autres projets sont a envisager. Des ports
comme Tulear, Mahajanga et Antsiranana sont des candidats potentiels pour de telles interventions.
Les points a souligner dans les prochains projets sont:
(a)    Mettre l'accent sur l'importance de la maintenance afin d'assurer la durabilite des
investissements.
(b)    Reorganiser le secteur portuaire en regroupant les trois principaux ports (Tulear,
Mahajanga et Antsiranana) dans une entite autonome et en etudiant la possibilite
d' intervention du secteur prive (particulierement au port de Toamasina).
(c)    Etudier et mettre en oeuvre un systeme tarifaire, base sur une comptabilite analytique
et indexe sur une devise stable (pour la DTM).
(d)    Simplifier les formalites administratives et douanieres, particulierement pour le
cabotage national.
Antananarivo, le 07 Fevrier 1995
Pour la Banque Mondiale
A. Lamrini                                                             K. Ben Hamida
(Consultant)                                                         (Projects Assistant)



ANNEXE I
MADAGASCAR
MISSION D'ELABORATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
Fevrier 1994
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Projet de r6habilitation des ports. Credit 1 752-MAG
Liste des personnes rencontrdes
Ministere des Transports et de la Meteorologie (MTM)
M. RIVOSON Razanamahazo, Directeur des Transports Maritimes,
M. JACKY Razafimanantsoa, Chef du Service des Voies Maritimes,
M. RABARY Jean Germain, Chef du Projet Portuaire,
M. GUILLAUME, Chef du Service de ]'Exploitation des Ports,
Mme. RAZANAMPAMONJY Pascaline, Chef du Service Formation.
Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (SEPT)
M. ARISTIDE Emmanuel, Directeur general,
M. MANANJARA, Directeur technique,
M. ZAFINANDRO Rend Max, Directeur de I'Exploitation,
M. RAKOTOVAO Eugene, Directeur Administratif et Financier,
M. IMPALY Seraphin, Contr6leur de gestion.
Port de Mahajanga
M. BECKY Symphorien, Capitaine du Port,
M. LEGEN de la Compagnie Malgache de Manutention (CMDM).
Compagnies de Transport Maritime
M. RAMANANTSOA Andrianoro, Directeur General de la Societe Nationale Malgache de Transport Maritime (SNMTM),
M. ABOUBAKARY Assani, Directeur Gendral de la Compagnie Malgache de Navigation (CMN).
Caisse FranVaise de Developpement (CFD)
M. VAILLANT Louis Jacques.
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
M. DECAMPS Benoit, Conseiller a la Mission Francaise de Cooperation et d'Action Culturelle.
KFW
M. SCHMID, Representant du Kfw.



Annex I
Page I of 3
Economic Calculation Model
The economic calculation of benefits is based on the saving in time on cargo
handling operation. This saving is reached through improvements in productivity. Saving
are calculated as follow:
For the year n: Number of days saved is:
Tonnage handled at the year n   Tonnage handled at the year n
productivity without the project  productivity with the project
The benefits are equal to:
Benefits = Days saved for vessels x C,   + Days.saved for coasters x
Cv,essel: Cost of waiting in ports for vessels
Ccoas,er: Cost of waiting in ports for coasters
When benefits begin before the end of the investment they were taken equal to the
last formula, but deflated with the percentage of the achieved investment of the total
investment.
For Toamasina: time in port to time in berth was taken into account to compute the
number of days saved. You find in next page the details of calculation for Toamasina. The
same methodology was followed for other ports.



I ( t *,; - ( . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annox I .   *
f PORT 01? T2MAOf Anne
1989    1,417,333  2.465,866~~~~~~~~~~~~~98                                        00 
1992  874,667 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~98                                                     0-
_|i 199      41,300,29                                                                                             ,69'4         :^i
Ya    T.vsesl    . coasters(2 )            Benfit                                           1992|  2,553,195       1,094,282     1,458,913
1990       700             83           2,930,7                                           199      3,421,650       53,600      3,368,055
+  1991        534             70          2,326,81                                                    3,649,775      53,600      3,596,175
19I 92       638             67          2,553,19                                         I1995    3,649,775         53,600     3,596,175
1993       700             119          3 421T                                                    g h 1996    3 649 775  536 00  3t596s175
1994        810            115          3(649,72) Toag 3,649,775                                                   53,600  3t596s175
1995       810             1155 3,649,700                                                 1a 3,649,775             53,600     3,596,175
1999. . 41,300..  53...60--(3299    3,649,775                                              53,600     3,596,17n
Toear ~2SAR costs                      Actal co s                                                                am.
1986 ~0                                 0                                                               TMI   W 77w
1988    9384,000                             0                                           | Traffic: Higher than prevision
1989    1,417,333                       2.465,866t
1990    1,685,333                        1.479.374k Productivity: Compared to prevision
1 992      874,667                        1,.0964,2982                                     Costs: less thani expected
1993       41,300                         53.600               m, 
-1996     41,300                         53600       , ,;j, ,.,(1) Tonnage handled bv vessels ('000 tons)                                  -    ;-;
-1997     41,300                         53,600           &-(2) Tornnage handled by coasters ('000 toiis)::;
1998       41,0                           53,600(  Recalculated oni the same basis                                                



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
Table: Effect of Traffic, Productivity and Costs, on the ERR calculation
I_  I____~~
Toia   t  :ro;5     -26%          28%                                                     -5
Mgnakara             -9%          25%                          0                          -4
Mrondava            -100%         41%                                        0            -3
Vohemartl00 X  X:    -2%          26%                                       + +           -I
IosyBe      S      50%           53%           - -            -                          I+
18%          22%            0             -                         -3
ToIiara             45%          29%            +             0             0
Toamasina            39%          32%            +             0             -             I
Mahajanga            31%          22%                         + +           + +           2
Antsiranana          29%          38%            0             +             +            2
Nav. Aids            29%          26%            n.a          n.a           + +           n.a
|DTM ports           12%           28%            --           n.a                        n.a
|Total Project    |    27%    |    29%     "     n.a     I    n.a     I             I     n.a
Codes
-: Worse than the expected by more than 50%
*: Worse than the expected by more than 10% and less than 50%
0: More or less 10% than the expected value
+: Better than the expected by more than 10% and less than 50%
+ +: Better than the expected by more than 50%
Table 2A: Effect of Investment type on the ERR values for each Component
-26%          28%          12%           42%          46%
-9%          25%           31%          41%           28%
.. 0n  ;.a  -100%       41%          100%           0%           0%
lohomalr  0          -2%          26%           100%          0%            0%
osy& 0. ; 0t  i    50%           53%          100%           0%           0%
Eouis f :; ;:i     18%          22%           31%           0%           69%
Toliara              45%          29%           35%          25%           40%
Toamasina            39%          32%           29%           71%           0%
Mahajanga            31%          22%           100%          0%            0%
Antsiranana          29%          38%           100%          0%            0%
Table 2B: Effect of Investment type on the ERR values for MTM ports and Toamasina
||DTM           I    12%           28%          44%           26%          30%
||SEPT(IDA)     |      -             -          74%           26%           0%
||SEPT(CFD)     |      -            -            0%           100%          0%
||SEPT(tot.)    |    39%           32%          29%           71%           0%||
(*) Percentage of the total costs of each component. These costs are only the one taken into
account in the economic evaluation



Tables 1: Costs Ventilation per Category and Cofinancier (US$M)                                                                Annex 2
Page I of2
Table IA: Total Project
I  \C~g~an~Ihg~ ~;. ~  ~j $hsppmg.  ,   ]~ . 1o~sjwuoaJ Devlpmeflt                                            Tow;cn~
C________>                                     Fo-tisgn  I,.t,,l-afibggn.l  TLe otc  l]l -Foreign    Local  1.Foreign ILal  ioreign  ,               Foeign    Locd  I     m
IDA (MTM)             1.08      3 33      0 00      0.00      0.53       1.80      0 35      0.62      0.36      1 02      0 05      0.28       0.25      0 96      2 62      8.03   10.65
IDA (SEPT)             .04      1 55      0 00      1.03      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0 00      0 00      0 00      0.00       0 00      0 00      1 04      2 58    3.4)2
Local                 066       000       000       0.00      0.15      0.00      0.15       0.00      0.09      000       0.03      0.00      006        0°00        15      0 00    1.15
CFD                   0 00      0 00      0 00      4.64      0.00      0.00       0.00      0 00      0 00      0 00      0.00      2.74      0 00       0 00      0 00      7 38    7.38
KfW                   0.00      0.00      0.00      3.62      0.00      (.00       0.00      0 00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0 00       0.00      0 00      0 00      3 62    3.62
IFAC                  0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.87      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00°     0.00      0.00       0.87||  0.87
lTOTAL          lJ    2.781     4.881     0.00°      9.291     0.681     1.80|     0.50°     1.491     0.45       1.02      0.09      3.02      0.31      0.96      4.80      22-48 27-28
iI      7.66                 9.29                2.48                199             1 147                    3.11       !        1.27
II                 4.48                                    4.58
Table IB: DTM Ports
IDA (MTM)              108      3-33     0°00       0 00°     0.53       180       035        62       036       1 02      005        028       025       096       262        803    10.65
Local                 0.66      0.00      0l00      0 00      0 15       0 00      01 5      0 00      009       0 00      003        000       006       °°°|      I 15      0o       1.15
KfW                   0.00      0.00      0.00      3 621     0.00       0.00      0 00      o oo      000       000       000        000       00         000      00         362    3.62
FAC                   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.o0      0.87      0         000       0 00      0          000       0         000       0 871|  0 870
|LTOTALI      iJ      1.741     3.331     0.00      3.621     0.681     1.80j     O.50j      1.491    0.451      1.021     0.091     0.28j     0.31j     0.961     3.77      12.52J  16.28  ]
5.08                3.62       q        2.48       11        1.99                1.47       11       0.37       r1       1.27        J
4.48                                    1.84                 lr
Table IC: Toamasina
|IDA (SEPT)           1.041      1.551    0.00°       03       00     0 0°001 0°00                     0-00l      000       000       0.001 °             o °°l 10 041         2 58
CFD                   0.00      0.00      0.00      4.64      0.0000                                   0.00      0.00      0700       274                 000        00         38 |1
T     1.041     1.551     0.00      5.671     0.00|     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00°     0.00°     0.00      2.741     0.00°      0.00       .04      9.96| 
2.59                                    0.05.67  °°11 02.74                                                     !!       °-°°             11-
0.00                                    2.74



Anncx 2
Paee 2 of 2
Table 2: Costs Ventilation per Year and Port (*) (USS)
ii . . . ; g l M t - |  TOT AL   |T-07  %(**
Antsiranana
1990            152,5391           1           1            |     10,4851      163.024IRehabilitation    I I0 0%
Mahajanga
1990      |     927,4601                        1           |     61,9741     989.434 Rehabilitation      1)0( 0
Manakar
1988                                                 335,076                  335,076 Equipment          4 1
1990            895,246                                           63,171      958,417 Rehabilitation     3%1
1991                                                 136,937                   136,937 Equipment         41%
1993                                                 789.061                  789,061 Equipment          4 1%
1994            822,891                        1 _                49,019      871,910 Dredging           28-%(
Morondava
1990      |     437,6761                                    1 I  |  30,8841   468,560lRehabilitation    I I(On|
1994      1      6s,9501                                    |     22,6631      88.613 Rehabilitation    I I0O%|
Nosy Be
1990             45,3761                                           3.119|      48.495Rhabilitationi   I 100%
St Louis
1990            190,191|           I                        |     13,0731     203,264IRehabilitationi    31.
1994            434,3031                                    1     25.871      460,174 Dredging           69"n
Tolieara
1988                                                     335,0381             335,038 E-quipinent     |25oo |
1990            437,676 _           I _                           30.884      468,560 Rehabilitation  | 35°o
1994            297,155                                          203,714      500.869 Dredging           40%
1995             23.352                                            9,989       33,341 Dredging           40%
Tolagnaro                                                                                                         |
1990            238,732            J                              16.8461     255,578 Rehabilitation      12
1993                               1                 868,8131 _               868,813 Equipment       | 42-o|
1994      1     731,459            I                             229,5851     961.044 Dredging        J  46%
Vohemar
1990            578,2981 _         J                        |     39,7511     618,049IRehabilitation     I00'1o||
Toamasina
1990           1,047,129    1,418,737 _                r               J    2.465866
1991            775,490     703,8841                                         1,479.374
1992            641,827    2,026,1211 _         _          1                 2,667.947
1993            635,697     458,5851 _                      1           J    1,094.282
Nav-Aids
1990      J      14,279_                                           5,255        19,534_
1991     7             1           7    867,878              1         7      867.878,                1       11
1993      J     165,884_                                          557295      221,179                 1       11
1995      j   1,243,207            T           I           r      98,256     1,341.463 _11
TOTAL       |  10,801,8171   4,607,3271    867,8781  2,464,9241    969,8341   19,711,7801
(*) These costs are only the ones taken into account in the economic evaluation
(**) Percentage of each category as a part of the amount spent on each port.



Annex 3
Page I of 6
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPT!
Income Statements
tor the vears etided December 31st
(nillljoii FMG's)
Source: SEPT and Auidit Reports    NATW 1987                      1988          1989             1990            1991             1992            1993 
Revenue:
Cargo relate(d (Estinate)            3,542   74%   4,462   76%   5,620   77%   5,900       77%   6.215     77S   6,581      77%   6,966      77%   7,372     7S%
Cargo related (Actual)               4,249  65Y   7,769  78%  12,627  69%  12,511          42 %  13,998    72%  12,615    6)%  20,198  3) 72%  16,410         S9%
Vessel relatedl (Fstiinates            499   ioqx    636   ii%      810   ii%     862      i1%     918      Is%    949      iS%    982        is   1,015     10S
Vessel relatedl (Actual)               508   8s       881   9%    1,880  ios    2,544       9%   3,111    16%   3,870    19%   4,447         16%   6,010     21%
Other (Estmate)                        755  ibcs    806   i4%       861   12%      92)     12%     987      125   1,026     12%   1.067      12%   1,1I10     12%
Odlier (Actual                        1,731  274   1.346  13%   3,683  2o%  14,850    so%   2,409    12%   4,255    21 %   3,324             s2%  15,337  'n20%
Operating Revenues (Estimate)        4,796  iooe   5,904  soos   7,291  ioo%   7,683    ics%  8,120    1oo%   8,556    100%   9,015         0os%  9,497    soos
OjperatingRevenues (Actual)           6,488  at  0$ g            7                                                                                           I
Expense
Salarie.N (kEstnaite)                3,829   74Y   3,987   74 i   4.149   74 %   4,323     73X   4,505      73 %   4,555    72%   4,602      72 %   4,645     70%
Salaries (Actual)                     3.591   4i6s   4,005   6oX   5,461   66X   6,047     58%   5,629    so%   7,441       S2%   9,075      5i%  10,343      39%
Materials (Estimate)                   922   19%      972   18gX   1.025   III°   1,083    18i   1,144      19%   1,201     19%   1,260      20%   1,321      20%
Materials (Actual)                     857   II,   1,249  i95       868   iso   1,703      16%X   2,582     23%   4,243    30%   5,557       31%   5,933      22%
Othe r (Estimate)                      401   s x     429   8s       458   89      490      8S      525      9%     546       9 s    567      9%      647      10%
Otlier (Actuiil)                     3,354   41i   1,415  21%   1.967  24%   2,750         26%   3,069    27%   2,622       18%   3,332      19%  10,538      39%
Working Expenises (Estimate)         5,152  ioos   5,388  iooe   5,632  ioos   5,896    ioos   6,174    ice%   6,302    ices   6,429         eoo   6, 613    ices
Working Expenses (Actual)            7,802  i     4i 39                                                                         .          ,ti7 9  iN        I M   X
Operating Result (Estimate)           (356)          516          1,659         1,787            1,946           2,254            2,586            2,884
Operating Result'(Actual)            (1,314)               t . 3327' Ii i.i_
Depreciation (Fsimaste)                526            668           810           892              993            1,039           1 084            1,129
Depr,ciatnto  and piovisionsActual   2,30t5         2.171         6,445         14,788 2'        6.486            7,140           9,218            9,955
Net Operating Result (Estimate)       (882)          (152)          849           895              953            1,215           1,502            1,755
Net Operating Result (Actual)        (3,619) .      1,156:               .4., t4ti'Mt4N S                                                   I.. ,,. 
Interes.t  esen.s (Estimate)           198            251           488            731             836              992             928              839
iiterest eslsenscs (nel) (Actual)       (h)            45           227          1,134           2,488            1,077          (1,164)            (712)
Eitraoodliirs it(moo (tEminair)
Extraiidtnary items iict) iActual)    (917)          (640)        (2,398)       (2.362)          2,201            3,019            1,095           1,825
Net Inicome  L oss) (Estimnate)     (1,080)          (403)          361            164             117             223              574              916
Net Incomne ( Loss) (Actual)        (4,596)           471  .     -24 .    -        4            ta . -  - _        g '   ,         3                        U
! I)This inicrease is dun to Ihc iincrease In rice iniport betweeni 1988 and 1989.
(2) This increa,se is due to thc increase In provisions on rice receipts.
(3) This incracase is diirc tn  he change of taritication system. Before 1992 tariffs were indexed on Malagasy franc, After 1992 they were indexed on the ECU
(4) Prv.isioin ior liabiitijes



Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPT
Balance Sheets
for the years ended December 31st
(million FMG's)
Source :Audit reports                 1986           1987           1988           1989             1990              1991             1992             1993
ASSETS
Cash (Estimate)                       1I190    9%       886   6%       875    5%      923      5%      974      5Y   1,027       6S   1,082        7%   1,140       7%
Cash(Actual)                           2,431   20%    3.189   8%    3,859   8%    8,873        14X  16,795      23%  22,268      26%  25,534      27%  24,670       27%
Accounts Receivables (Estimate)        5,525   43 %   5,306   35s   5,111   29z   4,205        24%   3,462      19%   2,846      16 #   2,339      14 %   1,922     12%
Accounts Receivables(Actual)           3,124   260   4,361   ui%   9,213   18%  10,472         16%   9,659      139    8,356     10o  10,767       I2%   13,027     14%
Inventories (Estimate)                   805    6 %     992    7 %   1,224    7o   1,292        7 %   1,363      7 o   1,437      8%   1,514       9%   1,595       1sa
Inventories(Actual)                      919   8%    1,149   3%    1,464   3S    1,636          3 %    1,762     2 %    3,148     4Y   2,534       3%   2,919       3%
Current assets (Estimate)          7,520   59%   7,184   47 %   7,210   41%   6,420        36%   5,799      32%   5.310      310   4,935       30 %   4,657     29%
Current assets(Actual)             6,474   53 %   8,699  2z%  14,536   29%  20,980         33%  28,217      38%  33,772      39%  38,835       42 %  40,616     os%
Net Fixed assets (Estimate)            5,045   4o%   7,876   52%  10,440  6s%  10,977          62%  11,805      64s  11,398      66s  10,828      66%  10,137       63%
Net Fixed assets(Actual)               3,927   32 %  30,592   75 x  34,499   68s  41,618       65%  43,589    isa  45,345        53 %  50,276     54 %  47,262      52%
Deffered Charges (Estimate)                3    oX        3    o%        3    os        3       0%        3      0%        3      3,        3      0%        3       o%
Deffered Charges(Actual)                       so              O%             0%               0%         1     s's       54      so       47      0%       35      o%
Other assets (Estomate)                  196    25      115    is %    128)  -is      368      2%      726       4%     632       4 T    732       49   1,371        8a
Other assets(Actual)                   1,723   14%    1,235   3%    1,503   ;s    1.860        3%    1,870       3s   7,132       8%    3.878      4%    3,592       4%
Total Assets(Estimate)               12,764  1os  15,178  soo%  17,525   oos  17,768          10   18,333       o%  17,343    soox  16,498    iooa  16,168    100%
Total Assets(Actual)                  12,125  :o:s  40,526  so   50,538  soo   64 ,458    IOOS5  73,677         oo%s  86,303    ioows  93,035     sos  91,505    soos
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities (Estimate)        5,971   47 %   5,182   34%   4,496   26%   3,906         22%   3,395      L9%   2,876      17s   2,436      t5%   2,505       15s
Current Liabilities(Actual)           10,162   s4s   4.938   12%   7,235   14%  11,521         i8%  17.145      23%  18,323      21%  27,344      29%  27,535       30%
Long Term Debt (Estimate)              2,755   22 9   5,360   35 %   8,031   4609  9,190       52-  10,899      59%  10,203      59 o    9,223     56    8,158      50%
Long Term Debt(Actual)                 2,181   is8   2,070   5%    8,638   170  17,827         28%  20,642      28%  33,034      ii's  33,766     36 %  32,690      369
Provisions (Estimate)                  1,500   1 2%s   1,500   1o%   1,500    9%   1,000       6%      250       1 x    250       , x    250       2%              0o
Provisions(Actual)                       262   2 %  26,380  65 %  27,175   54 %  27,190        42 %  27,451     37 %  26,497     31 0  21,495     23 %  20,017      22%
Paid in Capital(Estimate)              6,710   S3 x   6,710   44%   6,710   38X   6,710        38%   6,710      s7 x   6,710     o9 o   6,710     41 %   6,710      42 %
Paid in Capital(Actual)                4,500   373  11,557   29%  11,557   230  11,557        85%   11.557      16s  11,557      13 '   11.557     12%   11,557     13%
Retained Earning (Loss) (Estimate)   (2,092) -i6s  (3,171) -2i%  (3,573)  aox  (3,202)   -i8s  (3,038)   -17%  (2,919)   -i7%  (2,695)   -16%  (2,121)   .13%
Retained Earning (Loss)(Actual)         (547)  -5s   (5,143) -13%  (5,109) -io%  (5,060)    -8s  (4,993)    -s7  (4,905)    6.,  (4,855)           5%  (4,807)    -5%
Reserves (Estimate)                   (1,000)  -8s            so%             o s              0%               o%                0                 ' ox            0%
Reserves(Actual)                         163    i x     163   o%       219   c,s      301      o%      413       1 %    560       i s    683       , 9     988      i%
Current income (Estimate)             (1,080)  -8%    (403)  -3 %      361    2%      164      i x     117       i s    223       , W    574       3 9     916      6%
Current income(Actual)                (4,596) -380      471    is      824   20    1,121       20    1.464      2o    1,237       13   3,045       3%    3,525      4%
Total Equirs' (Estimnate)          2,538   2os   3,136   Si'   3,498   20 's   3,672       210%  3, 789     21 3   4,014     233 -   4,589     25 %   5,505     34%
Total Equity(Actual)                (480)  -4s   7.048   7 %    7,491   15X   7,919        32%    8,442     ,1%   8.449      10%  10,430       H,   11.263      12%
Liabilities and Equity(Estimate)      12,764  soos  15,178   ooxs  17,525  i0870  17. 768      sos  18,333    mos  IZ7343    io .  16,498         ioo%  16,168    100%
Liabilities and Equity(Actual)        12,124  ioo%  40,436  oo%   50,538  ,ous  64,457    ioo%  73,680    ,oos  86,303           os,I 93,035      6,0%  91,505    soos



Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPT
ProForma Ratio Analysis
for the years ended December 31st
(million FMG's)
Source: SEPT and Audit reports    1986         1987         1988         1989           1990           1991            1992           1993
Efficiency:
Revenue turnover(Estimate)        95.1%        75.0%        69.8%         70.0%          68.8%          75.1%          83.3%          93.7%
Revenue tumover(Actual)          165.2%         32.7%        52.7%        71.9%          44.8%          45.7%          55.6%           79.9%
Receivables turnover *(Estimate)    415           324          252          197             153            120             93             73
Receivables tumover *(Actual)        173          157          182           126            178            145            139             124
Inventory turnover *(Estimate)        60           60           61           61              60             60             60             60
Inventory tumover *(Actual)           51           41           29            20             33             55             33             28
Revenue/Employee (Estimate)          1.0          1.2          1.4           1.4            1.5            1.5            1.6             1.7
Revenue/Employee(Actual)                                                                    7.5            8.2            11.4           15.8
Tons of Cargo/Employee (Estimate)   125           118          112          105              99            100            101            101
Tons of Cargo/Employee(Actual)                                                              300            238            286            344
Pricing :
Gen'l Cargo('000 tons) (Estimate)   590           580          570_         560            550            560             570            580
@ FMG/lton(Actual)                 6.1          12.7         20.0         19.3           17.9           20.9           28.6            20.0
Number of vessels(Estimate)          358          356          354          352            350            348             346            344
Number of vessels(Actual)
@ millionFMG/vessel (Estimate)    1.4           1.8          2.3          2.4            2.6            2.7            2.8             3.0
@ millionFMG/vessel(Actual)
Profitability:
Working Razo (Estimate)           107%.          91%.         77%          77%             76%            74%            71%            70%
Operating Ratio (Estimate)         118%         103%          88%          88%             88%            86%            83%            82%
Return on Fixed Assets(Estimate)    -21.4%      -5.1%        3.5%          1.5%           1.0%           2.0%           5.3%            9.0%
Return on Fixed Assets(Actual)    -117.0%        1.5%         2.4%         2.7%           3.4%           2.7%           6.1%            7.5%
Net return (after int.) (Estimate)
Net return (after int.)(Actual)
Liquidity:
Working Capital **(Estimate)      1,549        2,002        2,714         2,514          2,404          2,434          2,499          2,152
Current Ratio(Estimate)            1.26         1.39          1.60         1.64           1.71           1.85           2.03           1.86
Current Ratio(Actual)              0.64          1.76         2.01         1.82           1.65            1.84           1.42           1.48
Quick Ratio (Estimate)             1. 06        1.22          1 .41        1 .41          1.42           1.49           1 .58           1.40
CapUtalization:
Debt to Equity(Estimate)          52.0%        63.1%        69. 7%        71.5%          74.2%          71.8%          66.8%          59. 7%
Asset Leverage(Estimate)          80. 1%       79.3%        80.0%         79.3%          79.3%          76.9%          72. 2%         66.0%
Asset Leverage(Actual)           104.0%        82.6%         85.2%        87.7%          88.5%          90.2%          88.8%           87.7%
Self financing(Estimate)
Self financing(Actual)
* Average days on hand
** Million FMG



Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPT
Actual Income Statements
for the years ended December 31st
(Thousand US$)
Source: SEPT                          T17        8                  1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Revenue:
Cargo related (Actual)          6,283   7,266   8,974   7,803   9,369   6,873   10,S36   8,574
Vessel related (Actual)          751      824   1,336   1,587   2,082   2,109   2,386   3,140
Other (Actual)                  2,560   1,259   2,617   9,262    1,612   2,318    1,783   8,014
Operating Revenues (Actual)    9,593   9,349  12,927  18,651  13,063  11,300  15,005  19,728
Expense:
Salaries (Actual)               5,310   3,746   3,881   3,771   3,768   4,054   4,869   5,404
Materials (Actual)              1,267   1,168     617   1,062   1,728   2,312   2,981    3,100
Other (Actual)                  4,959   1,323   1,398   1,715   2,054    1,428    1,788   5,506
Working Expenses (Actual)      11,536   6,237   5,896   6,549   7,550   7,794   9,637  14,010
Operating Result (Actual)      (1,943)  3,112   7,031  12,102   5,513   3,506   5,367   5,718
Depreciation and provisions(Actual  3,408   2,030   4,580   9,223   4,341    3,890   4,945    5,202
Net Operating Result (Actual)    (5,351)   1,081   2,451   2,880   1,172    (384)    422    516
Interest expenses(net) (Actual)   89      42      161     707   1,665      587    (624)   (372)
Extraodinary items (net) (Actual)   (1,356)   (599)  (1,704)  (1,473)   1,473   1,645  587  954
Net Income ( Loss) (Actual)    (6,796)    441     586     699      980     674   1,634   1,842



Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
MvADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPT
Estimate Income Statements
for the years ended december 31st
(Thousand US$)
Source: SAR Estimate              -TIY    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992               3
Revenue:
Cargo related (Estimate)            5.237    6,598    8,310    8.724    9,190    9,731   10,300   10,900
Vessel related (Estimate)             738      940    1,198    1,275    1,357    1,403    1,452    1,501
Other (Estimate)                     1,116    1,192    1,273    1,362    1,459    1,517    1,578    1,641
Operating Revenues (Estimate)       7,092    8,730   10,781   11,360   12,007   12,651   13,330   14,043
Expense:
Salaries (Estimate)                 5,662    5.895    6,135    6,392    6,661    6,735    6,805    6.868
Materials (Estimate)                 1,363    1,437    1,516    1.601    1,692    1,776    1,863    1,953
Other (Estimate)                      593      634      677      725      776      807      838      957
Working Expenses (Estimate)         7,618    7,967    8,328    8,718    9,129    9,318    9,506    9,778
Operating Result (Estimate)          (526)    763    2,453    2,642    2,877    3,333    3,824    4,264
Depreciation (Estimate)               778      988    1,198    1,319    1,468    1,536    1,603    1,669
Net Operating Result (Estimate)     (1,304)    (225)   1,255    1,323    1,409    1,797    2,221    2,595
Interest expenses (Estimate)          293      371      722    1,081    1,236    1.467    1,372    1,241
Extraodinarv items (Estimate)
Net Income (Loss) (Estimate)        (1,597)   (596)    534       242      173      330      849    1,354



Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REIABILITATION PROJECT
MTM
Income Statements
for the years ended December 31st
(million FMG's)
Source: Consultant's Report               1989                1990                1991                1992                1993
Revenue:
Expense:
Salaries                                  181,021   51%        187,646   46%      205,599   55%       212,723   41%        217,366   37%
Materials                                 155,703   44%        198,297   49%       163,205   43 %     299,990   57%         346,120   sss
Other                                      19578    s%          20,850   5%          7,445   2%        10,952   2%           30,208    5%
m___r- N_                                            - __ -_ __  -_ N_ l__-  N
Depreciation                              363,739             531,865              547,447            550556                537,313
Interest expenses                         380,808              141,089              43,133             42,602                40,850
Extraodinary items (net)                 (275,210)            223,994             (193,830)            96,146              (110,780)
I~N                                                                             _ N N 11I, _-   N 



MAP SECTION






IBRD 19595R1
12'                         MADAGASCAR                                                                4'
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                         ANTSIRANANA
c      PROJECT PORTS                                                                                     4 ,J
PAVED ROADS                                                                         St. Louis
ALL-WEATHER ROADS                                                          *            o            -
- - -  -    NON-PERMANENT ROADS                                                     Nosy-O              4                 Vohimarino
RAILROADS                                                                           Abo1s
RIVERS                                                                          /7
4-    AIRPORTS                                                                       /                             So,"Iseos
*      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                         Replnono
O FARITANY (PROVINCE] CAPITALS                                                                                 Anoeo
AYt-oh,hrqk-                     +e Andopo           a
--   - -.  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           Bofondriono  -
MAHAJANGA
'5'           J   Bersde           \\Mondritioro\
Mt.,01o                                                   *' y) ~2i 
-6'                                                 OiiV                                                                                                    I6
16                               5  1 °§~~~~~~~~~~~~~ °             0roco      ampioon.Iy          jMoonorror
,,}/             ArbotoboetnyO 0      R'A\                        J             )
4-+s sIompy                 Moevstsoons J           ) Tss,stonsos    2 ooniroorpo-ivoogo    NOSEtll
4-                          -nq        NOSY-
/           PAndr AndI n                       .4A.d Anbod.fototro
//         0Morsfnnooe                         \p                  4'Lg
Mo-trsno<-                                                                          nubotaondrazo  a
0  >                                   Ank-j;gnlzOO                              2TAOMASINA
An so In~~~~~~~~11~hs
'     Tsroonomsnddy            t s, VA
/                    0S'.vnsodr on°            }Andrsnos.nnj       4-'  loonr
Belo-T.lrRN-3 ,lo4>efq       la  
20'  )                      Antsirabe    ' FondMoon                   o or
20-                         Mrnao_                                                             rlmoj                                                         0
Mronoan   c.                     \Mso  bondy
,oro                      bo Sor /snN,orr
M,nL9 e~~~~~~-               <Mananj~Mnanary
Bororono        Faonarantso             -
Morombe >6Torwndavo   O                      [        8\     !~~~~~~onkor
oAnk-.ob.             Io   .,    M nakara
II                       ~~~~~~~          ~         ~~lb.,    
04n.szosoo    ,9ohiVoh,peno                   KILOMETERS 0      50    100    ISO    200
5>oWorCho   Y   V-ndr-0o   >ForMILES 0              50          10
^                          B~~~~~~      ~~entroko/
TOLIARY                                      '                          ?     oi n
24               9elo                                        -g M ,ds ngy  /          Zi n  ZAIRE   TANZANIA
21.                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24' )-..      OOO
The  boundaries,  colors,                                                                                                                      C Sorooto  * 'J  MAIAWI  OMa1 r
denominations and any                                 4 i                                                          ZAM IA .X                       rt
other information shown                    'i--i                                                                                 j
on   this  map  do  not                                                                                             /                       A ,  J  r  ,
The World Boank Group,                                   Amb\sary-Sud R-13                                        ZEMA8W(                   MADAACAR
ony judgment on the legal                                        -v              Toolagno                          K       5
stotus of any territory,                                 -> --          o            9                                  -
or any endorsement                                                              'tAbo-                             SOLJTH
or acceptonce of such                                                                                              AFRICAS
boundaries.                                                                                                                ASWAZILAND
44'                                                                48I
MAY I995









.!                . E   l, I   .
.             , _                .I                      -                                                                        .J
,;      !                     . .              :               :



