Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6294-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 14, 1986
Transportation Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit                                 Malagesy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00                              FMG 630 a/
FMG 1 million                        US$1,587 a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)                                   3.28 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (m3)                            35.29 cubic feet (cu.ft)
1 kilometer (>I)                              0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)                      0.386 square mile (sq.mi)
1 hectere (ha)                                2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                               2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)                          2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 liter (1)                                   0.26 US gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE     -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CMN      -  Compagnie Malgache de Navigation
DAC      -  Direction de l'Aviation Civile, de la Mari.e Marchande, et
de la Meteorologie, MTRT
DGP      -  Directeur General du Plan
FAC      -  Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation
MC       - Ministry of Commerce
MPARA    - Ministere de la Production Agricole et de la Reforme
Agraire (Ministry of Agriculture)
MTP      - Ministere des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public Works)
MTRT     - Ministere des Transports, du Ravitaillement et du
Tourisme (Ministry of Transport, Supplies and Tourism)
NTP      -  National Transport Plan
PIP      -  Public Investment Program
RNCFM    - Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (Madagascar
National Railway)
SEPT     -  Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (Toamasina
Port Authority)
SMTM     -  Societe Malagasy des Transports Maritimes
TSM      -  Transport Sector Memorandum
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
a/ See para 3.20



(M)                   FOR OMCIAL Usr ONLY
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.      Geographic and EconomicSetting..........................1
B.      The Transport System ................................ 9999 2
C.      Transport Sector Management......     .................. 4
D.      Transport Policy ...................................... 5
E.      Sector Investment Planning ........................,.....6
F.      Bank Group Role in Transport .......................,...7
G.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.............,.............7
II. THE MARITIME SUBSECTOR
A.      InternZational Shipping 8
B.      Coastal Shipping ...8
C.      Shipping Fleet ...........................................9
D.      ThePot9
III. THE PROJECT
A.      Project Objectives ......................................16
B.      Project Scope ........ 
C.      Project Description .......................        ...17
D.      Cost Estimates 999999.99 .................................   19
E.      Financing .....999999999.9.9........ ...............2
F.      Project Implementation and Monitoring .............................22
G.      Procurement ...................,... .................23
H.      Disbursements ......... ...ooo..o...o.ooo..ooo..o.o...24
I.      Env'ronmental                      Aset ...................27
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.      General Objectives  .........o.o......................28
B.      Forecast of Future Traffic..............................29
C.      Navigation Aids and Shipping ............................30
D.      Cargo Handling Improveihents and Dredging .............    .31
E.      Economic Rate of Return ...................
F.                               Rik .P32
Silvio Capoluongo (Mission Leader), B. Bostrom (Senior Economist), A.
Litvak (Port Engineer), C. Tran-Luu (Training Specialist), J. Curien
and J. McCaul (Consultants) prepared this report. Dr. Mario D. Fenyo
assisted in Its preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



M)
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.      Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (SEPT) ...... 34
B.     The Ports Budget ...............................37
C.      The Cargo HandlingCompani.............................38
D.      Financial Objectives ....................................
E.     Financial Covenants ................ .                  39
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION ..................#41



ANNEXES
1.1      Public Investment Plans for the Transport Sector
2.1      Develonment of Port Traffic
2.2      Development of Toamasina Traffic 1978-84
2.3      Cabotage Fleet as of November 1985
2.4      Port Installations
2.5      Physical Description of the Port Sector
2.6      New Organization
2.7      Organization Chart-September 5 1985
2.8      SEPT Action Plan and Performance Indicators
3.1      Cost Estimates
3.2      Training Program
3.3      Implementation Schedule
3.4      Performance Indicators for Ports Other than Toamasina
4.1      Forecast of Port Traffic 1990-1995
4.2      Ship Loading!Unloading P.ates
4.3      Summary of Costs and Benefits
4.4      Details of Economic Benefit Calculations
4.5      Summary for Each Project
4.6      Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
5.1      SEPT Income Statements for the Years Ended December 31st
5.2      SEPT Balance Sheets at December 31st
5.3      SEPT Funos Statements
5.4      SEPT Ratio Analysis 1980-1985
5.5      SEPT Financial Forecast - Assumptions
5.6      SEPT Pro-forma Income Statements for the Years Ended December 31st
5.7      SEPT Pro-forma Balance Sheets at December 31st
5.8      SEPT Pro-forma Funds Statements
5.9      SEPT Pro-forma Ratio Analysis 1986-1995
5.10     1984 Ports Budget
5.11     Ports Budget - Main Accounts
5.12     Pro-forma Ports Budget
5.13     Pro-forma Ports Budget: Assumptions
Map
1.       Madagascar, Ports Rehabilitation Project  (IBRD #19595)



(iv)
MADAGA_ AR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.       Dossier 1, Trafic maritime, situation actuelle et perspectives,
MTRT, November 22, 1985
2.       Dossier 2A, Les projets techniques, MTRT, November 22, 1985
3.       Dossier 2B, Projet de renforcement institutionnel, MTRT, November
22, 1985
4.       Dossier 2C, Plan de formation, MTRT, November 22, 1985
5.       Dossier 3, Moyens de desserte, November 22, 1985
6.       Dossier 4, Evaluation economiqre des projets, MTRT, November 22,
1985
7.       Dossier 5, Analyse financiere des projets, MTRT, November 22, 1985
8.       Dossier 6: Les dragages, MTRT, November 22, 1985
9.       Dossier 7, Etude operationnelle et financiere, premiere phase,
MTRT, January 31, 1986.
10.      Etude de la desserte maritime de Madagascar, phase 2, Ponds d'Aide
et de Cooperation, December 1983
11.      Madagascar Ports Project: Aspects institutionnels et
organisationnels, Bossard International Entreprise, January 1986
12.      Preliminary Assessment of Madagascar Shipping, International
Maritime Associates, Inc., January 24, 1986
13.      Renseignements statistiques, Annie 1983-1984, SEPT, n.d.
14.      Rapport d'audit des etats financiers de l'exercice clos le 31
decembre 1984, SEPT, April 1986
15.      Madagascar:  etude de la signalisation maritime, tome I, MTRT,
September 1985
16.      Elaboration d'un plan de formation, propos'tion du 4/12/85, MTRT
17.      Elaboration d'un plan de redressement du port de Toamasina, MTRT.



MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01     Madagascar is a large and diverse island with a good natural base
for agriculture. Ecological zones are varied and the agricultural sector is
equally diverse. Rice and assava are the main food crops, while cattle
raising is common in most areas. Most exports, of which coffee, cloves and
vanilla are the most important, are of agricultural origin though some
minerals, mainly graphite, chromite and mica, are also exported. The
country's mineral resources are limited, but recenu exploration indicates
that petroleum might be found in commercial quantities. Manufacturing
consists almost entlrely of consumer goods industries ctering to local
demand and agro-industries.
1.02     Fourth largest island in the world, Madagascar covers an area of
about 590,000 km2. The topography is generally rugged and a central
mountain range traverses the country from north to south.  The climate is
marine tropical with cyclones and heavy rainfall particularly frequent on
the east ceast. The country is sparsely populated (about 17 per km square)
and the population is unevenly distributed, with about one half of all
inhabitants occupying the central one-quarter of the island. Total
population is estimated at about 9.8 million and growing at about 3% p.a.
Ninety percent of the population works in the agricultural sector; its
output accounts for 401 of the Gross Domestic Product. Industry accounts
for 14X of GDP and annual per capita income is about US$265. Madagascar is
thus at an early stage of development.
1.03     Prompted by economic stagnation and a 12% decline in per capita
income in the 1970's, significant investments were made in all sectors of
the economy in 1979-81. Financed largoly by foreign borrowing, the spending
boom left the country with a debt service burden that is straining the
economy. Economic developments over recent years reflect the need to
correct serious imbalances on external account and in the Government budget.
With generally declining expor.s, the imbalance on external account has been
corrected by cutting back imports. Imports declined steadily betweena 1981
and 1984; the volume of imports in 1984 was 23% lower than in 1979. Reduced
imports of raw materials and spare parts have adversely affected production.
The volume of GDP declined by about 9% in 1981, and 2% in 1982.   Estimates
for 1983-85 suggest a growth of 1% to 2% p.a. Industrial output has
declined and there are now serious shortages of a number of basic goods such
as soap, candles, oils. Shortages of new equipment and spare parts have
affected the transport system and greatly diminished its capacity. Economic
policy has recently focused on structural adjustment with IMF and World Bank
support. Progress, however, continues to be constrained by the external
debt overhang and the legacy of past policies.               I



-2-
B. The Transport System
1.04     Madagascar depends on shipping for its transport link witut the
outside world. It has four international ports, 13 coastal shipping ports,
about 15 minor ports and a navigable canal along part of the east coast.
The country's internal transportation infrastructure includes an extensive
but poor road network, two rail systems of considerable length and a well-
developed air network. The transportation infrastructure fails to provide
access to all productive areas of the country. Madagascar's lifeline,
between the port of Toamasina and the central plateau where most of the
population lives, consists of a railway line and a highway, RN 2, two thirds
of which has just been rebuilt with assistance from China. The old sections
of RN 2 are built to inadequate standards. Costly road construction, poor
road maintenance (paras 1.17 and 1.26) and inadequate overland
communications have led to the development of an extensive system of ports
and coastal shipping and to an air transport network derser than in most
comparable countries.
Road Transport
1.05     About 5,200 km. of Madagascar's nearly 50,000 km. of roads are
paved. The paved highway network consists of a main north-south link
connecting Mahajanga on the west coast with Antananarivo, the capital, and
Fianarantsoa in the highlands, and the east-west road linking Antananarivo,
Moramanga and Toamasina (Map IBRD t 19595). Only parts of the north-south
highway can sustain heavy vehicle traffic. A new paved section of the
Toamasina-Moramanga road provides all-weather transit between Moramanga and
Brickaville on the coast. While this development greatly improved road
communications between Antananarivo and Toamasina, heavy truck traffic will
continue to be constrained because the highland Moramanga-Antananarivo road
(115 km), as most of the island's roads, was built to low standards, and is
narrow and badly aligned. The Bank and Switzerland are financing the
rehabilitation of the Manajanga-Antananarivo road, RN 4, under the Sixth
Highway Project. In the framework of the priority road network established
under that project, other donors (European Development Fund, Germany,
Switzerland, and the African Development Bank) are financing rehabilitation
of the worst stretches of the main highway axes.
1.06     Tota_ vehicles in 1984 numbered 42,000, some 13,000, or 31%, of
which are trucks and pickups. Less than 50% of the commercial fleet is
operational. By contrast, in 1976, there were 104,000 vehicles, 47% of
which were commercial. This development reflects scarce funds for fleet
replacement as well as a severe decline in economic activity (para 1.03).
Passenger transport is provided by cooperative and individual carriers and
regulated by the Ministare des Transports, du Ravitaillement et du Tourisme
(MTRT) and provincial authorities. The trucking industry is also regulated
by MTRT and local authorities. Until early 1986, entry to the industry was
nominally screened by the Government on the basis of supply and demand, but,
in practice, was generally open to capable entrants. Transport tariffs were
determined within a minimum-maximum rate system established by MTRT and
lagged behind cost inflation. Under the Sixth Highway Project, the Bank
urged further liberalization. During negotiations of the Third Railway
Project (Cr. 1694-MAG), in March 1986, Government agreed to remove remaining
restrictions to the free movement of goods and to freedom of pricing and has
since ac ed to carry out this agreement.



-3-
Rail Transport
1.07     The railways are operated by the Reseau National des Chemins de Per
Malagasy (RNCFM), a parastatal agency under the supervision of MTRT. ~he
railways consist of two separate and unconnected single track systems ,Map
IBRD #19595). The northern system (about 700 km) connects Antananarivo, the
capital, and industrial areas in the high plateau region with the main port
of Toamasina and the rice and chrome producing area of Lac Alautra. The
southern system (163 km) connects the regional center of Fianarantsoa and
the main coffee producing areas in the South with the port of Manakara. The
Antsirabe-Antananarivo-Toamasina line is t.e most important line and the
main mode of transport between the most populated and developed parts of the
country. Almost half the population of Madagascar lives in the area served
by the railway.
1.08     RMCFM is expected to remain the main means of transport for bulk
commodities such as petroleum products, grain, chemicals and construction
materials from Toamasina to the central highlands. Long-term projections
indicate that rail traffic is unlikely to increase significantly even if the
economy continues to grow, due to increased road competition for non-bulk
commodities. Freight traffic by rail is thus expected to stabilize at the
current level of 224 million ton-km p.a. In the short-to-medium term,
despite some 302 decline in passenger traffic since 1979, the peak year, the
railway will still continue to carry a substantial number of passengers
because many existing road vehicles need to be replaced.  Their replacemeLt
may take some time given the current scarcity of foreign exchange.
Air Tranasort
1.09     By regional standards, Madagascar has developed a dense domestic
air transport network in response to the distance between population
centers, the rugged terrain, costly construction and the poor condition of
surface transport.   There are 56 airports, 17 of which are built to all-
weather standards and five of which are suitable for international flights;
the remainder are gravel or grass strips. The international airport at
Antananarivo handles 502 of all traffic; 15 small airports generate 30% of
the traffic; and 40 very small airports share the remaining 20Z of total
traffic. Service to many small airports is not financially profitable but
ensures access to otherwise isolated areas.
1.10     Air Madagascar, 80% owned by the Government, 18X by Air France and
2% by private shareholders, provides international service to Paris,
Marseilles, several countries in East Africa and all domestic service.
Aircraft in its fleet include a B-747 (combination cargo/passengers) for
service to Europe, two B-737's for domestic and regional service, two HS-
748's and four Twin Otters for domestic service, and several smaller
aircraft for air-taxi and charter services. In 1984, Air Madagascar
successfully renegotiated maturities on its long term debt obligations to
foreign banks, and in 1985 began a financial improvement program.
Ports and Coastal ShiDpint
1.11     Because it is an island, Madagascar will continue to rely on
maritime shipping for the bulk of its foreign trade and on coastal shipping



-4 -
for an important part of its internal trade. Indeed, shipping by water is
the only means of transporting freight between many areas of the country
with no access to all-weather roads. Toamasina, the main international
port, handles 552 of the total traffic; Mahajanga, 11%; Antsiranana, 5%; and
Toliara, about 4%. The remaining 25% of traffic is handled by all other
ports catering almost exclusively to coastal shipping vessels. The port of
Toamasina has adequate capacity to handle present tra!fic, but operations
are hampered by low labor productivity and poor condition of the equipment
for lack of maintenance and spare parts. Poor performance at the port of
Toamasina has led to the diversion of some international traffic to the port
of Mahajanga. Capacity there is limited, howr-,er, as the port requires
lightering and the transfer inland of goods delivered at Mahajanga is
restricted by the condition of the road connecting it to the capital (RN 4).
Rehabilitation of the worst sections of RN 4 is included in the ongoing
Sixth Highway Project.
1.12     The Societe Malgache des Transports Maritimes (SMTM), the state
controlled international shipping line, operates three cargo vessels.
Coastal shipping is handled primarily by the Compagnie Malgache de
Navigation (CMN), 92% state-owned, operating nine vessels of which eight are
leased from the government. The government-owned oil company, SOLIMA,
operates three tankers, and a number of lighters and barges. Several
private operators operate small vessels along the coast and to nearby
islands in the Indian Ocean. Parts of the intracoastal waterway on the East
Coast are being rehabilitated with AfDB financing but initial traffic is
expected to be light (para. 1.20). It is Goverment's objective to improve
the efficiency of coastal fshipping and ports' services. To this end, in
1983, the Government carried out a comprehensive sector survey with French
aid.   This study (paras. 1.21 -1.23) forms the basis for the proposed
project.
C. Transport Sector Management
1.13     Several ministries and Government organizations share responsibility
for the transport sector: the Ministry of Transport, Supply and Tourism
(Ministere des Transports, du Ra,vitaillement et du Tourisme, MTRT) and the
Ministry of Public Works (Mitnistere des Travaux Publics, MTP) play the most
important role. MTRT is responsible for road, rail, air and water transport,
end ovetsees several autonomous Government agencies, including the national
Railway (RNCFM), Air Madagascar, the Port of Toamasina, and the shipping
companies. MTP is responsible for planning, building and maintaining
highrays and other Government civil works except ports and airports.
1.14     Other Government agencies that influence transport policy include:
the Ministry of Commerce (MC), the Ministry of Agriculture (Ministere de la
Production Agricole et de la Reforme Agraire, MPARA), the Director Genetral
of Planning (Directeur General du Plan, DGP), and the local governments.
MC's responsibility to collect and market crops significantly affects road
transport capacity and its control of prices of basic commodities influences
transport tariffs. MC also regulates the importation and assembly of motor
vehicles, and, in concert with the Central Bank, allocates foreign exchange
for imports. MPARA and the military operate large state-owned road
transport enterprises. Finally, each provincial government operates a
trucking company.



1.15     MTRT's Planning Director is charged with transport sector planning.
The director's main task is to coordinate transport investment plans with
other agencies. Pending the completion of a WAtional Transport Plan (para
1.19), scheduled for December 1986, the DGP began to establish a Public
Investment Program (PIr) with assistance primarily from MTRT and MT? for the
transport sector. IDA and other bilateral and multilateral aid agencies
have helped improve sector planning, but more assistance is needed. During
preparation of the Sixth Highway Project, planning improved. The office of
MTRT's planning Director was established and supported by technical
assistance financed by France and IDA. The planning effort was well
coordinated with DGP and MPARA and yielded a priority 'Economic Road
Network" list of about 10,000 km (4,300 km psved roads, 3,300 km engineered
earth roads and 2,400 km feeder roads). This was the agreed basis for the
IDA Sixth Highway Project.
D. Transport Policy
1.16     Development of the transport sector has been influenced by:
(i) rugged topography and a tropical climate with heavy rains and frequent
cyclones; (ii) unevenly distributed population concentrated in e few
isolated regional centers; and (iii) lack of suitable construction materials
in some parts of the island. As a result, road construction and maintenance
is costly and the less populated regions remain relatively isolated.
Transport needs are relatively well served on the central plateau where half
of the population is concentrated.
1.17     Government. policy towards transport development is to:  (i) connect
regional capitals by all-weather roads; (ii) improve corimunications between
the centrally located capital and the main seaport of Toat asina (the
Antananarivo- Moramanga-Toamasina road/rail corridor); (iii) improve road
maintenance; and (iv) improve the transport organizations and services. An
overriding objective is to satisfy the country's quantitative and
qualitative transport requirements at a reasonable cost, taking into account
balance of payments difficulties. IDA is in general agreement with these
objectives, and has successfully supported them through several projects
(para. 1.24).
1.18     A program of action to better coordinate measures relating to
infrastructure and means of transport has been established for the 1984-1987
period. It seeks to: (i) coordinate and plan transport services,
complementarity, infrastructure, and pricing; (ii) improve the quality of
service by introducing competition between the different transport modes
and, where possible, between different operators of a given type of
transport; (iii) reorganize training of infrastructure specialists and
transport company personnel; (iv) rehabilitate transport companies by
importing sufficient quantities o- spares and supplies and through regular
upkeep of infrastructure; and (v) replace obsolete transport material and
keep the fleet properly maintained. Other objectives relate to the general
development of Madagascar. The overall policy goals are to provide
transport at a lower cost and to reduce regional isolation through
rehabilitation of the secondary road network.



-6-
E. Sector Investment Planning
National Transport Plan
1.19     The Government's sector policy objectives are likely to change
little over the medium term. What may change, however, is the relative
emphasis on different aspects, modes, or geographical areas. To assist in
this process, IDA and FAC are supporting the development of a National
Transport Plan (NTP) by MTRT. The NTP work began in 1985 and the MTRT team
has so far completed several detailed studies concernlng tariff policy,
origin and destination of road traffic, relation between road transport
costs and tariffs, and port services in the northeast of Madagascar. A
first draft investment plan for the sector for 1986-1990 has been prepared
and considered in the formulation of the project.
1.20     The draft investment plan (Annex 1.1) continues to emphasize road
rehabilitation and maintenance but is otherwise fairly balanced between
transport modes and clearly meets many of the urgent needs for
rehabilitation of the sector.  The main problem is availability of
resources. Less than half the investments originally planned for 1984 and
1985 were in fact made mainly because of budget cuts. A separate issue is
the investment in the Canal des Pangalanes (para. 1.12), financed by AfDB.
About 9% of the total investment of the National Transport Plan is allocated
to this project. While the general project objectives appear reasonable,
the assumptions underlying the economic evaluation of this project,
particularly the traffic forecasts, appear rather optimistic. In the
context of the Public Investment Review, the Government has expressed the
intention to work closely with the Bank as well as AfDB to ensure that
investment and operating costs of the Canal be kept to a minimum and the
risk of cost overruns be prevented as much as possible.
The Ports Rehabilitation Prozram
1.21     The need for port rehabilitation was recognized in 1982.  This
recognition led to an agreement with France's FAC to finance a study of
ports and shipping completed in 1983. The objectives of the study were: (i)
to develop a program to rehabilitate and maintain Madagascar's ports; (ii)
to Improve coastal shipping; and (iII) to collect relevant port and traffic
statistics to be used as a basis for a sector investment plan. The study
was divided in two phases. During the first phase, the consultants prepared
an inventory of all ports and their physical characteristics, studicd the
economies of each coastal area and their transport needs, and prepared
traffic projections.
1.22     During the second phase of the study, the consultants evaluated
alternative ways to meet the transport needs of the coastal regions and
catried out a comparative economic analysis of all practical alternative
investments. The report also included hydrographic surveys and studies on
port maintenance, cargo !'andling and coastal shipping. Furthermore, it
recommended that thie Government rationalize and streamline institutional
arrangements, establish improved accounting and financial systems for all
ports, and employ specialists to design an effective system of navigational
aids.



- 7 -
1.23     In 1984, the Bank found that the study financed by France was a
good basis for a port rehabilitation program and, at the request of the
Government, agreed to finance technical assistance required to prepare the
proposed project with a PPF advance, to supplement grants for the same
purpose by France and the UK .
F. Bank Group Role in TransRort
1.24     Bank involvement in Madagascar9s transport sector is substantial.
Between 1974 and 1986, the Bank supported ten transport projects with IDA
Credits totalling just over US$110 million, six in highways, one in ports,
and three in railways. The Bank has played and expects to continue to play
a critical role in improving the institutional capacity and policy framework
for the sector.
1.25     The first port project (Credit 200-MAG, US$9.6 million, 1970)
consisted of the extension of the deep water berth at Toamasina, the
creation of the Toamasina Port Authority (SEPT), and technical assistance
for management and training. In 1973, the credit was increased by US$1.8
million to cover a shortage of funds resulting from a currency realignment.
PPAR No. 2299, dated December 22, 1978, concluded that (i) the physical
objectives of the project were satisfactorily carried out; (ii) a lower,
revised economic return of 7.0% i-as due to lack of traffic growth resulting
from adverse local and international political and economic conditions that
could not have bQen foreseen at the time of appraisal; and (iii) although
the technical assistance for institution building did not achieve fully
satisfactory results, initially because of the poor performance of technical
assistants, the Port Authority made some progress towaris autonomy and
Improved management. These positive achievements. however, were relatively
short-lived because of the country's economic deterioration, SEPT's weak
management, and labor problems.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.26     Transport is a key sector in the Bank's lending strategy in
Madagascar because transport constrains economic development in other
sectors as indicated in the Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM). The Bank has
invested heavily in the sector and has seen results: (i) a gradually
increasing emphasis on rehabilitation versus new investments; (ii) progress
towards the creation of a highway maintenance system; and (iii) increased
management and financial autonomy for the Railway which enabled it to
significantly improve its operations. The Bank has been promoting an
integrated approach to transport to help Madagascar's economy, to maintain
an ongoing dialogue with the Government with a view toward promoting policy
reform, and to balance the Bank presence among subsectors.



-8-
II. THE MARITIME SUBSECTOR
A. International Shioping
2.01     Because it is an island, Madagascar depends on shipping by sea for
all its foreign trade except for a mitor volume of high value commodities
shipped by air freight. Only about 5,000 tons of total 1985 exports and
imports totaling about 1.1 million tons were shipped by air. International
sea trade essentially falls into three categories: scheduled liner
services, dry bulk, and liquid bulk transport. Most high value general
cargo moves by regular scheduled liner services and conference lines; the
conference between Europe and the Indian Ocean is the most important. This
conference, CIMACOREM, includes European carriers and the Societe Malagasy
des Transports Maritimes (SMTM) which operates two modern ships equipped to
handle containers. The major part of bulk cargoes such as rice imports and
chrome exports are shipped by specially chartered vessels. The same
applies to the third major category, oil imports, except for a minor volume
handled by the national oil company SOLIMA on its own ships.
2.02     Madagascar's most important international port is Toamasina on the
east coast. In 1984, it handled dry cargo imports of some 321,000 tons,
169,0OO tons of trans-shipment, and 250,000 tons of oil imports, or about
80% of the country's total oil consumption. Exports through Toamasina were
182,000 tons or 58% of total exports of 315,000 tons. An overview of port
traffic in Madagascar is given in Annex 2.1 and in more detail for
Toamasina in Annex 2.2. The clear domination of Toamasina is due to
several factors, the most important of which is that it is the only deep-
water port with easy road and rail access to the capital and to the central
plateau, the most populated and developed area of the country. This in
turn made it the obvious choice for the SOLIMA oil refinery. Other ports
with direct export traffic are Nosy Be and Port St. Louis for sugar and
fish, Mahajanga for textiles and Tolagnaro for sisal and mica. Ports with
direct import traffic include Nosy Be for oil, and Mahajanga, Antsiranana,
Toliara and Morondava for dry cargo.
B. Coastal Shipping
2.03     Coastal shipping performs two main functions: it distributes
locally produced commodities such as rice, sugar, salt and corn to other
parts of the island, and it acts as a collector for trans-shipment of
exports such as coffee, cloves and certain minerals and imports such as
cement, rice and oil products. The coastal shipping fleet is listed in
Annex 2.3. In 1984, some 224,000 tons of dry cargo and 120,000 tons of
petroleum products were carried Dy a fleet of 14 vessels larger than 500
dwt, three of which are tankers. By way of comparison, international
traffic was 763,000 tons of dry cargo exports and imports, and 314,000 tons
of imported oil. Most ports have lighterage operations; the main
exceptions are Toamasina and Toliara in the southeast, Vohemar and
Antsiranana in the north. Port installations are summarized in Annex 2.4.
Another 15 or so smaller communities are only served by sailboats and small
lighters, but the total volume of cargo is very limited. Coastal shipping
typically operates into several ports on the same voyage be it around the
island or on either the west or the east coast. Cargo handling rates in



- 9 -
the ports are generally low, partly reflecting the constraints inherent to
lighterage operations. Many of the ships are old and poorly maintained.
Weather and sea conditions increase the difficulties and further decrease
ship utilization. Due to geogr6phic and demographic constraints, coastal
shipping will continue to play an important role in the foreseeable future.
2.04     Poor infrastructure and equipment conditions in several ports
affect coastal shipping adversely. Coastal shipping patterns have changed
to overcome some of these constraints; examples of change are the use of
small beachable roll-on/roll-off ships (Landing Craft, LCT's) to certain
ports and the changed use of Mahajanga, where traffic is already largely
handled by small shallow-draft vessels or by lighterage. The proposed
project has been designed to take these trends as well as possible future
changes into account. Examples of possible future shipping alternatives
are the use of LCT's to Morondava and Maroantsetra and shallow-draft
motorized barges at Morondava. Small LCT's could also serve some of the
communities now served only by sailing craft.
C. Shipping Fleet
2.05     As indicated in Annex 2.3, the major part of the Malagasy coastal
shipping fleet is very old and in poor condition because ship owners have
had little incentive to invest and limited opportunity to obtain foreign
exchange for vessel replacement and maintenance. The Malagasy
international fleet, however, is relatively modern. SMTM and CMN each
operate two modern ships. SMTM's two newest ships are part of the liner
conference to Europe (para 2.01), while a third one is used for regional
and inter-island trading. In addition to smaller vessels, CMN operates two
5,300 DWT ships serving domestic and regional trade between Southern Africa
and the Indian Ocean Islands. Some private ship operators occasionally
also operate in inter-island trade. In addition to the ships listed in
Annex 2.3, about 110 schooners and 140 dhows serve small communities
without port installations. Although these sailboats carry only about 3% of
coastal traffic, some isolated communities along the coast depend entirely
on these traditional craft.
D. The Ports
Physical Description
2.06     In spite of the vital role which it must perform, since 1975 the
ports subsector has been affected by inadequate maintenance, overdue
equipment replacement, institutional problems, and declining traffic.
Though there are numerous small ports (Annex 2.4), served occasionally by
small private motor or sail vessels, about 97% of the total traffic is
concentrated in 10 ports, which are the only ones included in the proposed
project. A description of these ports is given in Annex 2.5.
2.07     Sea conditions are quite different on the east and west coasts:
The east coast is exposed to the wave action and swells of the Indian
Ocean, while the west coast, which faces the Mozambique Channel, is fairly
well protected. This difference affects both the type of vessels that can
operate safely, and the type and productivity of port operations.



- 10 -
2.08     The east coast is roted for its inhospitable shores, subject to
strong SE winds and heavy swell from April to October. From November to
March rain squalls are frequent and cyclones may occur. Two devastating
cyclones have hit the northern regions, including Toamasina, in the last
three years. There are no good storm shelters to be found on the east
coast. Toamasina, the most important port of Madagascar, and Antairanana
at the northern tip, are its only deep water ports. These, together with
Vohemar are the only ports along the east coast which do not require
lighterage. The rest of the ports along the east coast, the most important
of which are Manakara and Tolagnaro, are built in unprotected sites, and
rely on lighterage operation4.
2.09     Because it is protected from the trade winds, the west coast, from
Antairanans to Cape St. Marie, is more sheltered than the east coast. The
north-wer4 coast from Antsiranana to Mahajanga is served by Port St Louis,
Hell-Ville on the island of Nosy Be and Mahajariga, the second port of the
country. From Mahajanga to Cape St. Marie, the west coast is sparsely
populated, with few ports: Morondava and Tollara are the most significant
ones.   The west coast's only relatively deep water port, at 8 meters water
depth, is Toliara. All other ports depend on lighterage operations,
assisted by a tidal range of almost 3 meters.
2.10     Functionally, the ports of Madagascar are classified in the
following groups:
- Main ocean goina vessels: open to long distance international
shipping, as well as local coastal vessels; Toamasina is the
only port in this category; it is organized through an
independent port authority (SEPT).
- Secondary ocean going vessels: open to all ships except some
specifically indicated by Government regulationls, as well as
coastal ships; includes Antsiranana, Mahajanga, and Toliara;
their operations are supervised by a Port Director, assisted by
a local committee.
- Main coastal vessels: open to all coastal vessels; includes 8
ports, six of which--Manakara, Morondava, Nosy Be, Port-Saint-
Louis, Tolagnaro, and Vohemar--are included in the project;
their operations are supervised by a Port Agent.
- Secondary coastal vessels: only open to non-international
coastal shipping; these ports are not included in the project
due to their low level of traffic, about 3% of the total.
Port Problems
2.11     The infrastructure problems are deterioration and advanced age of
many wharves, buildings, and pavements to such an extent that unless prompt
repairs are carried out the investments required will be much larger due to
total loss. The poor condition of rolling surfaces, coupled with a chronic
lack of spare parts and of preventive maintenance, have also resulted in a
critical equipment situation. Additionally, some of the equipment recently
acquired through bilateral aid has not been very well suited to the



- 11 -
specific needs, and has in fact added a burden to the respective operating
firms. In summary, the ports need rehabilitation and replacement of
equipment, with only a very small amount of new items, mainly paved
surfaces. It is also necessary to establish an institutional framework to
ensure that there will be no recurrence of past neglect of maintenance
activities, both for equipment and for civil works.
DredRina
2.12     Except at Manakara, hardly any dredging has been done in the last
ten years. Yet the impact on port activities and on shipping has not been
dramatic, because lighterage operations have continued, and the demand for
maritime trensportation has decreased, although this may be partly due to
the high cost and low productivity of these services. Initial proposals to
return to the dredging patterns of the 1960's have been carefully evaluated
and found uneconomical at current traffic levels. At appraisal, Government
agreed to a much reduced dredging program. Regular dredging under MTRT
supervision would continue at Manakara, while a bottom cleaning operation
would be conducted in Mahajanga (once only), and minor dredging would be
carried out sporadically with small equipment by private stevedoring and
lighterage companies in Toliara and Tolagnaro.
Navigation Aids
2.13     During the last decade, Government has not carried out adequate
maintenance of lighthouses, markers, and buoys, nor has it carried out
regularly charting and hydrographic surveys. As a result, considerable
capital investment is required to catch up with deferred maintenance. The
logistic problem of supplying remote lighthouses and the degree of
deterioration of the existing equipment make it adv-.sable to replace some
21 lights with solar powered units. In general, hoever, much of the
existing old equipment is highly regarded and can be rehabilitated.
Operators are well trained and, given a reasonable supply of spare parts
and management encouragement, can continue to service the old equipment
well. Other important needs are provision of buoys, rehabilitation of
structures, a vessel to service the installations, and improvements in
management and technical assistance.
Port Institutions
2.14     In recent years, the most difficult problems facing the Madagascar
ports subsector have been institutional weaknesses. The 1983 study (para
1.21) indicated that the administration of the port subsector was carried
out by three ministries, MTRT, MTP, and the Ministry of Finance, and that
the attributions and responsibilities of the two former ones was quite
unclear, with resulting gaps as well as overlaps in the discharge of their
functions. While the infrastructure was under the supervision of MTP, the
administration of the ports was under the supervision of MTRT. Though MTRT
was supposedly in charge of planning new investments, MTP was responsible
for their execution. While the navigation aids were under MTP, the means
of transport to the lighthouses and buoys were provided by MTRT. The
dredges were procured by MTP, but their operation and maintenance was done
by MTRT. There was little coordination between the two ministries, and
funds were insufficient. The work indeed suffered, the ports deteriorated,
and productivity declined.



- 12 -
2.15     The consultants recommended the incorporation of dredging,
hydrography and navigation aids under a single division of MTRT, to be
given sole responsibility for the administration, planning and maintenance
of the ports, with the proviso that MTP would continue to provide
assistance in the execution of new works and certain maintenance
activities, when requested to do so by MTRT. This was done by Government
decree of February 1985, giving full attributions to MTRT, under the
Director of Civil Aviation, Merchant Marine, Meteorology and Ports (DAC),
which is now fully in charge of all ports, except Toamasina, and of
maritime transport. This institutional setup is satisfactory and should
remain in effect because it is conducive to a more efficient allocation of
scarce resources and adequate maintenance of infrastructure and equipment.
2.16     The new (March, 1986) organization, Chart shown on Annex 2.6, is
an improvement from the previous one shown on Annex 2.7. It follows
closely the recommendations of the 1983 study as well as new ones made by
consultants financed under a PPF advance resulting in an enhanced
institutional framework. DAC has now four port oriented departments:
Mi) Seaways; (ii) Merchant Marine; (iii) Port Services, and (iv) Provincial
Services. In addition to the above, there is at each port a representation
of the Port Services Department, which at Antsiranana, Mahajanga, and
Toliara is carried by the local head of the Provincial Services Department.
The Port Services department controls activities at all ports, except at
Toamasina, where the stevedoring, cargo handling, and port authority
functions are delegated to the Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina
(SEPT). Decentralization of headquarters authority has been implemented by
the creation of the provincial departments responsible for coordinating
activities in each coastal region.  The main objectives of this
reorganization are: (i) reinforcement of local port administrations; (ii)
clear definition of operational objectives; (iii) clear definition of lines
of authority; and (i'J) giving each port the means and support it needs to
achieve its objectives.
OrRanization of the Ports
2.17     DAC's staff working on port oriented activities consists of 72 at
Antananarivo, and 132 at the various ports. While the central staff is
adequate and needs only upgrading, the field staff is quite underutilized
due to lack of means to carry out the work, a situation which should change
in the near future. For example, 39 dredging workers are essentially idle;
even under the new dredging plan, most will continue to be redundant, and
will be reassigned.
2.18     Seaways Department is in charge of maritime accesses, including
navigation aids, hydrography, dredging and civil works. For navigation
aids it has a buoys maintenance yard, repair shop and training center at
Antsiranana, but it cannot discharge its duties due to lack of a buoy
tender. Currently it cannot discharge its dredging functions either,
because practically all the dredges are out of service. Nor can it carry
out any hydrogrephic work because it does not have a single appropriate
vessel.
2.19     Dredging constitutes a unique situation because, until 1985, the
service depended on MTP, and the dredging staff was charged to the budget,



- 13 -
when in fact no dredging at all was being done, except at Manakara.
2.20     Herchant Marine Degartment supervises Malagasy shipping lines
(traffic studies, tariffs, conference agreements, etc), and compliance with
maritime regulations.
2.21     Port Services Deiartment establishes the operational budget and
supervises operations and administration of the ports, including the
issuance of financial statistics, negotiation of concession agreements, and
setting of tariffs.
2.22     Provincial Services Department is at present only in charge of
local merchant marine matters but will soon include local representation
for all the central services described above.
2.23     At each port stevedoring and cargo handling activities are
contracted to a single private enterprise or to a consortium under
concession agreements. Contractors handle cargo on their own behalf and on
behalf of others. The firms having concessions are, by port:
- SEPT at Toamasina.
- Toliara Lighterage, organized by the local chamber of commerce.
- Tolagnaro Lighterage, an affiliate of SOMACODIS, a parsstatal
trading Company.
- Manakara Lighterage, organized by the local chamber of
comerce.
- Nosy Be Lighterage, organized by the local chamber of commerce.
- Vohemar Stevedoring, subsidiary of a large trading firm.
- CMDH, a private company at Mahajanga and Antsiranana.
-  SECIAM, the meat trading company, and Sociote Dublois at
Morondava.
2.24     The situation of the cargo handling and lighterage firms is quite
poor, due to the double disadvantage of too much personnel and insufficient
tariffs to recover costs. Equipment in their possession is usually lacking
in maintenance, and the infrastructure in which they operate is not
maintained at all. They are, however, the only entities which at the local
level have demonstrated capability to operate, and who have means to carry
out operations, in contrast with harbor masters and port captains who do
not have offices or vessels to carry out their duties.
Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (SEPT)
2.25     SEPT is responsible for services to ships such as piloting, tug
services, line handling, stevedoring, cargo handling, warehouses, storage
yards, port infrastructure, shops, maintenance, and police at Toamasina and
other non - port related commercial activities. It is autonomous but
subject to the supervision of MTRT and Ministry of Finance, administered by



- 14 -
a 12 member board, in which there is Government, unions, and ship owners'
representation. The Chairman of the Board is appointed by the Council of
Ministers.
2.26     Though piloting, line handling, and tug services provided by SEPT
do not present in general difficult problems, stevedoring and cargo
handling do. The symptoms of the problem have been poor productivity, low
level of security, and damage to cargo, to such an extent that shipping
rates to Madagascar are considerably higher than to similarly located ports
on the same route. The causes of the problems are complex, but can
generally be reduced to: (i) lack of competition; (ii) job tenure resulting
in disincentive for work; (iii) strong union pressure on management; (iv)
absence of motivation; (v) inadequate equipment, due to poor maintenance
and operating practices, and (vi) lack of certain specific qualifications
at the highest management positions. There are some highly qualifled staff
who have been ineffective because they lacked authority or management
support. Toamasina's situation contrasts sharply with that of some small
ports, such as Manakara and Vohemar, where there is a reasonably efficient
operation.
2.27     A new General Manager was appointed in April 1986, with  strong
backing by the highest Government levels, and a clear mandate to turn SEPT
around. Since his appointment, the new General Manager actively
participated in the preparation of SEPT's Action Plan (Annex 2.8 and paras
5.06-5.08) and is committed to its implementation. The Action Plan
consists of a series of measures aimed at improving SEPT's performance
during the first two years of project implementation. Improvements at the
port were noticeable only few weeks after the arrival of the new General
Manager: tighter discipline, enforcement of simple house-keeping measures,
and improved staff morale. For example, the port appeared much cleaner, a
third shift was instituted for handling certain commodities, working hours
are beginning to be respected, and overtime has been reduced by more than
half.
2.28     The highlights of the Action Plan are divestiture of non-port
related activities, strengthening of the entire upper management, training
and development of staff at all levels, reduction of number of staff, new
tariff system, new budgeting system, establishment and pursuit of overall
objectives clearly defined, speeding of invoicing and collecting
procedures, improved house-keeping practices, improved maintenance of
storage yards, improvement of ship loading and unloading rates, complete
overhaul of maintenance methods, facilities and personnel, and development
or a system of incentives to motivate stevedores.
2.29     Management improvements would be complemented by a program of
physical rehabilitation. The deep water berth (Pier C) is damaged and is
losing fill material; rolling surfaces and container handling yards are
rough; maintenance sheds are in poor condition; and the electric, water,
and drainage networks are out of order. Container traffic has increased
steeply over the last years, and represents a good opportunity tc improve
productivity and reduce shipping costs for the country. The port needs
some equipment to handle containers more efficiently, as well as
appropriate surfaces for the operation of the equipment. These
investments, together with technical assistance and training, would provide
the necessary means to improve performance.



- 15 -
2.30     The cyclone that struck Toamasina in March 1986 (Honorinina)
caused serious damage to the breakwater and to Pier C. The breakwater
repairs have been included in the Supplemental Credit to the Cyclone
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1526-HAG), approved by the Board in August
1986. The Pier C repairs match well the objectives of the proposed
Project, and have thus been included.
Role of the Private Sector
2.31     Private firms play a limited though important role in Madagascar
shipping and port sectors. At Toliara, Manakara, and Nosy Be cargo
handling functions are carried out by firms organized by and dependent on
the local chambers of commerce, which are controlled by the private sector.
At Vohemar and Morondava cargo handling is done by private firms, for whom
these ports represent a trade link. At Mahajanga and Antsiranana
stevedoring is done by private companies. At Port St. Louis and Tolagnaro
cargo handling is done by mixed companies. At Tosmasina, where there is an
independent port authority, there are opportunities for privatization of
cargo handling, and these will be pursued during the life of the project.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Protect Objectives
3.01     The proposed project aims to rehabilitate the physical
infrastructure, including equipment, in selected ports, primarily to reduce
overall transport costs to the users of shipping services. These ports
account for about 97X of port traffic in 1984. Secondly, the project aims
to develop the institutional capacity to manage, operate, and maintain at a
reasonable level of efficiency the ports subsector and its restored assets.
Thirdly, it aims to eliminate delays and safety hazards to navigation.
These objectives are consistent with the Bank's sector strategy formulated
in the 1983 Transport Sector Memorandum and the 1985 Selected Transport
Issues paper. The project represents a logical extens .on to the ports
subsector of efforts underway in the road iubsector (Sixth Highway
Project), and in the railway subsector (Third Railway Project) to promote
policy reform and rehabilitate infrastructure. A seventh highway project
is presently being prepared.
B. Prolect Scope
3.02     The proposed project includes the ports of Toamasina, Manakara,
Tolagnaro, Toliara, Vohemar, Morondava, Mahajanga, Nosy Be, Antsiranpna,
and Port Saint Louis; it will consist of the following components which
would be phased over 6 years, beginning in 1987:
(a)   Rehabilitation and enhancement of ports infrastructure.
Rehabilitation, repair and minor new construction of quays,
slipways, yards, buildings, and utilities.
(b)   Modifications and Improvements to cargo handling.
Procurement of new cargo handling equipment, floating craft,
spare parts, and materials.
(c)   Services to shipaing.  Dredging at Manakara, Tolagnaro,
Toliara, and Mahajanga; navigation aids and hydrographic
surveys capability covering the entire island; and spare
parts for the international and coastal shipping fleet.
(d)   Institutional development.  Technical support to develop and
strengthen technical skills, improve management, cargo
handling operations, maintenance, navigation aids, and
dredging. This support would be made available to MTRT and
to SEPT. Training, including a training specialist,
scholarships, training materials, and appropriate training
for about 500 staff of MTRT, SEPT, and local stevedoring and
lighterage firms.
3.03     A summary of project components for each port is shown on Table
3.1 on the following page:



- 17 -
Table 3.1 Sumary of components at each port
MAHA MORO TOLI TOLA MANA TONA VOHE ANTS NOBE STLO
A) Infrastructure
(a) Quays, slipways   X    X    X          X    X    X         X    X
(b) Yards             X    X    x    X    X    X          X         'X
(c) Buildings                   X               X
(d) Utilities              X    X    X    X    X
B) Cargo handling               I
(a) Equipment         X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
(b) Floating craft    X    X    X    X    X          X    X    X    X
(c) Spare parts       X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
and materials
C) Ship Services
(a) Dredging          X         X          X
(b) Navigation aids   X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
(c) Spare parts for   X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
coastal shipping
D) Institutional Development
(a) Technical support X    X    x    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
(b) Training          X    X    X   X     X    X    X    X    X    X
C. Proiect Description
(a) Rehabilitation and enhancement of ports infrastructure
3.04     Quays, slipwavs and trestles.  With the exception of Antsiranana
and Tolagnaro, all the ports included in the project need urgent repairs to
the waterfront structures, such as concrete encasement of sheetpile walls,
sealing of fill behind concrete blocks, replacement of pier beams,
installation of fenders, and repairs to the pier and trestle surfaces. A
new quay and earthfill would be the most economic solution at Vohemar, to
improve productivity and to allow continuity of operations during repairs.
A new slipway is required at Manakara to maintain the lighterage flest, and
a new passenger ramp at Mahajanga to replace the old one, no longer
operational.
3.05     Yards.  In all the ports, with the exception of Nosy Be and Port
Saint Louis, cargo handling operations are seriously affected by the poor
condition of storage yards, circulation and access areas, a situation which
causes equipment damage, and lowers productivity. Thus the project
includes preparation and paving of approximately 140,000 m2 in eight ports,
as well as some truck loading and unloading ramps.
3.06     Buildings.  Generally, the ports buildings are sufficient and in



- 18 -
acceptable condition, so the project includes only an administration
building at Toliara, and maintenance sheds at Toamasina.
3.07     Utilities.  The project includes badly needed lighting, drainage,
and water and electric distribution at Toamasina, Toliara and Tolagnaro.
(b) Modifications and improvements to cargo handling
3.08     Equipment.  Generally, due to aging, poor maintenance, bad rolling
surfaces, and chronic lack of spare parts, cargo handling equipment in all
ports under consideration is in very poor condition, idle, or completely
out of service. The project includes the provision of unsophisticated
equipment for all the ports except Saint Louis, consisting primarily of:
(i) four tire-mounted 30-ton container cranes; (ii) 22 25-ton chassis;
(iii) four 90 HP tractors; (iv) two small mobile cranes; and (v) one 25-ton
and 13 5-ton forklifts. Additionally, the project includes the
reconstruction of the chromite ore conveyor system at Toamasina and a four-
wheel drive vehicle for Toamasina.
3.09     Floating craft.  Of the ten ports included in the project, seven
require lighterage, and all require pilot launches and line boats. With
the exception of some work boats recently acquired under bilateral aid, the
general condition of the floating craft is very poor, and many cann-t be
rehabilitated. The project provides 14 barges ranging from 80 to 150 ton,
two 160 HP tugs, two 60-ton landing craft, and one line handling boat.
3.10     Spare parts and materials.  Supply of spare parts and materials
and tools has been a serious and chronic problem in the entire port sector
of Madagascar. The project provides parts and materials for about four
years of operations. Most of the lot is allocated to Toamasina, which is
consistent with the distribution of tonnages handled, and the appraised
needs. Also included are 3,000 pallets badly needed at various ports.
(c) Services to shippinR
3.11     Dredging.  Siltation has been a major problem in Mahajanga and
Manakara, and, to a lesser degree, in Toliara and Tolagnaro. The project
provides for bottom cleaning in Mahajanga using a barge mounted clamshell
excavator and a split bottom barge, a small suction pump to be mounted on a
pontoon for use in Toliara and Tolagnaro, and the rehabilitation of the
existing dredge at Manakara. The solution retained in the project
represents the least cost solution taking into account the cost of
dredging, the cost of cargo handling and lighterage, and the cost of
shipping. It also considers the poor track record of the public sector in
maintaining the dredges operating. In essence the approach was to
eliminate dredging to the extent to which it was possible and economic to
do so.
3.12     Navitation aids and hydrographic equipment.  Madagascar's lights,
lighthouses, buoys, beacons and marks have been seriously neglected, to the
extent of endangering the security of coastal and international shipping,
neglecting compliance with international regulations and agreements.
Similarly, charting, hydrographic surveys, notices to mariners, and weather
service have been disregarded. The project provides new buoys, solar
powered lights, repairs to lighthouses, spare parts, a mobile repair shop,



- 19 -
workshop, radio and telephone communication system. Also included is a
combination navigation aids-tender-hydrographic surveys launch.
3.13     Spare parts for the coastal shipping fleet.  The project provides
spare parts and their installation, as appropriate, for the largely private
coastal shipping vessels, which have suffered from lack of foreign
exchange. Private owners who operate a small but potentially important
fleet are expected to benefit substantially from this provision.
(d) Institutional development and reform.
3.14     Technical support.  The project provides 274 staff-months of
technical support in the following areas: (i) a ports advisor, for
technical matters, coordination, and project implementation assistance,
during five years (60 staff-months); (ii) mainterance and cargo handling
experts, during five years, to assist the governmetut with project
implementation and improvements to the efficiency *.- the port sector in
general (60 staff-months); (iii) one-year assistance by a dredging expert,
to assure continued operation and development of dredging personnel (12
staff-months); (iv) one to two-year missions by experts in accounting,
administration, hydrography and navigation aids (118 staff-months); and
(v) miscellaneous saort duration missions, of less than six months in
specific assignments such as follow-up of the implementation of SEPT's
Action Plan and training in procurement procedures (24 staff-months). The
breakdown is shown in Annex 3.1.
3.15     Training. The project will include the followiag comprehensive
training programs (i) a training specialist for two years; (ii)
scholarships and overseas training for about 60 upper and middle level
staff; (iii) training materials such as projectors, books, furniture; and
(iv) training of 500 staff covering MTRT, SEPT and cargo-handling companies
in port operations, dredging, navigation aids, and hydrographic surveys.
Details of the training program are given in Annex 3.2.
D. Cost Estimates
3.16     The total project cost is estimated at FMG 26,542 million (US$42.1
million), including contingencies and local taxes. The loreign exchange
cost is estimated at FMG 18,005 million (US$28.6 million), or about 682 of
total project costs. The project cost, net of taxes and duties, is FMG
21,918 million (US$34.8 million). Detailed cost estimates are presented in
Annex 3.1 and the project cost summary is shown on Table 3.2, on the
following page.



-- 20 -
Table 8.2    Project Cast S,immr
LOCAL TAX A FOIRI4 TOTAL TOTAL LOCAL TAX A   SMIf TOTAL TOTA
anr              S To OvY                        EX TTD
---ILL  -- --                          --N W
2. PM$TS DVnASIWJC
A. SYS, sLNY  MD OmTRom.                    441   815   63 1.,. 1,184   o.    0.5   1.1   2.8   1.8
U. YAM                                      441   815   6   1,8   1,071   0.7   0.8   1.0   2.2   1.7
C. JIlDSN                                   68     0    68   la    16   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.2
D. VJ=LT1                                   18   126   815   S0    804   0.8   0.2   0.8   1.0   0.8
JWfOTAL PORTS V*lA8 JCE                1,184   76  1,701 8,591 2,83    1.8   1.2   2.7   6.7   4.8
ZS. CAIWO WNCLDIO
A. EJW9T                                    252   56?  1,575 2,394 1,827   0.4   0.9   2.5   8.8   2.9
-. ROATIO CPAFT                             169   19   S6  1,006   819   0.8   0.8   1.0   1.6   1.8
C. SPANS PAT AN DATNUALS                    18  1,006 0,894 8,891 2,8k    0.8   1.6   8.8   8.7   4.1
SUOTAL CARGO K8SUM                       68  1,764 4,599 6,    8.29   1.0   2.6   7.8  11.1   8.8
ZUt. 6190
A. ORWa                                     19   252   680  1.071   819   0.8   0.4   1.0   1.?   1.8
6. NMVTTSN AM                               262   282 1,00  1,512 1,26O   0.4   0.4   1.e   2.4   2.0
C. VSARN PARTWS PM COATAL SWIPPINO           as   189    04   756   57   0.1   0.8   0.8   1.2   0.9
.WOTAL SHIPPDO                           804   N8 2.142 3,8  2,64    0.8   1.1   8.4   5.8   4.2
Iv. DINSTUTIWEAL O 0YUJPII
A. T#ICAL SWPUN1                           16      0 1,575 1,701 1,701   0.2   0.0   2.5   2.7   2.7
S. TRADIO                                  252    n3 1,4e  1,764 1.701   0.4   0.1   2.8   2.0   2.7
UTOTAL NSTIUTIONAL OV.DW                8as    6s 8,024 8,4U  8,402   0.6   0.1   4.0   5.5   5.4
V. 8ODERSN, 81D DOASn AND MS WIPSY          1i      90 1,JSO  1,483 1,44    0.2    .0   2.1   2.8   2.8
TOTAL BAEuLK COSTS                     2,77S 8,801 12,776 18,686 15,855   4.4   8.2  20.8  29.0  24.7
~ omm mmp=aa  man~tmem -=xmmm m==
PFSCAL CPINS00CY                           270   5A0  1.W   1,868 l,8      0.4   0.5   2.0   8.0   2.5
PrImC CWIanAcy                             SW    998 8,951 8,800 4.607   1.4   1.6   6.8   9.2   7.6
TOTAL PROJEIT COStS                    8M9U  4,624 10,006 29,542 21,918   8.2   7.8  28.6  42.1  84.0



- 21 -
39'-17,    Cost estimates were prepared by engineering consultants, financed
by IDA under a PPP advance, reviewed by the appraisal mission, and revised
as appropriate to reflect known costs for similar items at mid-1986 prices.
Local taxes and duties, included in the estimates, amount to about FMG 4.6
billion (US$7.3 million). Physical contingencies were calculated at 10% of
base costs. Price escalation for foreign and local costs is based on
projected increases in international US dollar prices of 7.2% p.a. in 1986,
6.8X p.a. in 1987 and 1988, 7.0% p.a. in 1989, 7.1% p.a. in 1990, and 4.0%
p.a. thereafter. The international rates have also been used for local
cost *esc4etion assuming that the difference between domestic and
inteenational price inflation will be offset by adjustments in the foreign
exchange rate, in accordance with Government policy.
3.18     Cost estimates have been derived as follows: (i) for equipment,
spare parts, materials and supplies, defined at final engineering level,
they are based on engineers' estimates and are supported by informal
quotationst witch is acceptable since most project items are standard,
"off-the-shelfa components; (ii) for civil works, where applicable,
estimates are based on preliminary engineering for the quantities and on
current contracts for the unit prices; (iii) for technical assistance and
engineering ser4ices, the estimates were based on actual costs for similar
services rendered under other projects in Madagascar. Detailed engineering
for civil works has been substantially completed. About US$ 1.3 million
out of the estimated US$ 2.3 million for engineering, bid documents and
supervision, has been spent with financing from France, UK, and the PPF
advance.
E.  Financing
3.19     Project ;xpenditures net of taxes and duties (US$ 34.8 million
equivalent) would be financed by Caisse Centrale pour la Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) and Ponds d' Aide et Cooperation (FAC) of France, KfW of
the Federal Republic of Germany, IDA, and local sources, including
lovernment, cargo handling companies, and SEPT. The UK provided a grant to
assist in project preparation. The Project financing plan is shown on
Table 3.3 below:
Table 3.3: Prolect Financing Plan
Source              Local      Foreign    Total
----- US$ million ------
IDA                    2.4       13.6      16.0
GCCE                   0.0       10.0      10.0
KfW                     0.0       2.6       2.6
FAC                    0.0        2.3       2.3
ODA                    0.0        0.1       0.1
Local Sources           3.8       0.0       3.8
Total                  6.2       28.6      34.8
3.20     ProJect items to be financed by IDA are shown in Table 3.4,
Procurement Arrangements. The proposed IDA Credit of US$16.0 million would
finance 46% of total project expenditures net of taxes and duties. The
1US$1.0 million PPF advance would be refinanced by the IDA Credit.   The
financing plan for this project was negotiated between Government and the



- 22 -
donors, including the Bank, on the basis of this report's cost estimates.
The exchange rate prevailing in mid-1986 was used in the report.   When the
IMF's Sixth Stand-by program was initiated, a 20X step devaluation
occurred.  In November 1986, the exchange rate was US$1 - FMG 750.  No
underfunding of the foreign exchange costs of the project, estimated at
about 82X of total project expenditures, is expected to result from this
change in the parity of the FMG. Significant overfunding of the local
costs of the project is also unlikely because the effect of the
depreciation of the FMG is expected to be suostantially offset over the
project period by local inflation (para 3.17).
3.21     The Government would onlen4 atout US$2.7.mil.ion equivalent to
SEPT on the following terms ond conditions: (i) final mat rity of 20 years;
(ii) six years grace; (iii) interest rate of 9.1% p.a.; (iv) commitment
fee of 0.75% on the undisbursed portion of the loan; and (v) borrower to
assume the foreign exchange risk. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Financing of all ports except Toamasina will be allocated to the Ports
Budget (para 5.14). The Treasury will recover the cost of the investments
including a reasonable capital charge through the Ports Budget over the
life of the assets. It will recover its investment costs from port users
through tariffs and from private beneficiaries such as cargo handling
companies through concession agreements acceptable to IDA for the use of
Government property.
F. Proiect Implementation and Monitorint
3.22     The project would be implemented by MTRT, which would be the main
executing agency, and by SEPT, which would be responsible for all
investments in Toamasina. To this effect, technical assistance for both
MTRT and SEPT will be provided for project implementation. The project is
expected to start in early 1987, and to be completed by September 30, 1992.
The implementation schedule shown in Annex 3.3 was discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations.
3.23     MTRT's recent reorganization (paras 2.17 - 2.24) provides a
coherent structure, which csa serve as framework for the Technical
Assistance component, as well as a vehicle for developing the capability to
carry out fu4ture projects. SEPT has, in the past, been able to carry out
projects and, with the technical assistance provi4ed under the project and
Qovernment support of the Action Plan, is expected to develop sufficient
institutional capability to implement its part of the project.
3.24     It will be critical to follow up on the Port Subsector
devei.opments by moxBitoring performance indicators shown at the end of Annex
2.8 for SEPT, and in,Annex 3.4 for the other po;ts. At negotiations,
a0suFances.were received that MTRT and SEPT will prepare qu4rterly reports
of the pejfrWaance of the ports based on the agreed upon indicators. The
targets will be revised nnu4Xly, in consultation with IDA, to reflect the
performance attained during the previous year.



- 23 -
0. Procurement
3.25     Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4
belows
Table 3.4 - Procurement Arrangement
- Procurement Method -
ICB     Other      N.A.       Total
(US$ millions)
(a) Civil Works
Quays, slipways, trestles         3.3                             3.3
Yards                             3.1                             3.1
Buildings                         0.2                             0.2
Utilities                         1.5        0.0       0.0        1.5
8.1       0.0        0.0       8.1
(5.0)                          (5.0)
(b) Equipment
Port and cargo handling            1.0       4.3       0.0        5.3
1.0       4.3       0.0        5.3
(0.5)     (0.5)                (1.0)
(c) Floating craft
For lighterage                    0.0        2.3       0.0        2.3
For dredging                      1.0        1.4       0.0        2.4
1.0       3.7       0.0        4.7
(0.5)     (0.5)                (1.0)
(d) Spare parts and materials
For port equipment                4.0        4.1       0.0        8.1
For coastal shipping              0.0        1.6       0.0        1.6
4.0       5.7       0.0        9.7
(2.0)     (2.0)                (4.0)
(e)  Navigation aids                   3.3        0.0       0.0        3.3
3.3       0.0       0.0        3.3
(1.0)                          (1.0)
(f) Consulting services
Technical support                 0.0        0.0       3.8        3.8
Engineering supervision           0.0        0.0       3.3        3.3
0.0       0.0        7.1       7.1
(2.0)     (2.0)
(g)  Training                          0.0        0.0       3.8        3.8
0.0       0.0        3.8       3.8
(2.0)     (2.0)
Total                            17.4       13.7      10.9       42.0
(9.0)     (3.0)      (4.0)    (16.0)
Notet  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 24 -
3.26     Civil works contracts would be awarded following ICB procedures,
with appropriate local preferences, if applicable. New equipment, floating
craft, tools and materials for SEPT and MTRT financed by IDA would be
procured on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines with
a separate contract for each type or groups of similar types of goods.
Itemo costing no more than US$ 50,000, but not exceeding US$1.0 million in
the aggregate, would be procured by international and local shopping on the
basis of at least three quotations from different suppliers, dealers or
manufacturers. Proprietary spare parts for an amount estimated at US$1.0
million would be procured by direct contracting after negotiations. Each
cargo handling entity or ship owner would be responsible for procurement of
its own spare parts and materials (US$1.0 million). MTRT would, with the
assistance of consultants, approve the lists of spares with their
respective quotations. The firms would pay the Central Bank cash in local
currency equivalent, and these funds would be allocated to MTRT's ports
budget as counterpart funds. Procurement would be made by users on the
basis of international shopping through local representation, if available,
or from foreign suppliers using technical assistance which MTRT would make
available to prepare the lists of spare parts, to carry out all the imports
transactions, to obtain the import licenses and foreign currency. The
consultants will also ensure that the procurement guidelines are adhered to
in the process. Each user would be fully responsible for all the
transactions required for purchase, shipment and receipt of the parts in
Madagascar. Total exceptions to ICB would not exceed US$3.0 million. All
contracts above US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for prior review.
3.27     All studies and preparation of bid documents will be carried out
by MTRT and SEPT with the assistance of consultants as appropriate.
Experts and consultants, financed by IDA, would be recruited as needed,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with the
Bank's 'Guidelines for the use of consultants". Training would be provided
by specislized institutions selected by Government in accordance with the
specific needs, after evaluating several candidates, and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
H. Disbursements
3.28     Funds from the IDA Credit would be allocated as follows:
Table 3.5 IDA Credit Allocation
Thousand US$
a) Civil Works:
SEPT        1,400
Other       3,100                          4,500
b) Cargo Handling Equipment,
Floating Craft, Spare Parts,
Navigation aids, Training
Equipment, Tools and Materials
SEPT        1,000
Other       4,500                          5,500
c)  Con:ultants' Services                          1,000



- 25 -
t)  Training services and scholarships              2,000
.)  Refinancing of PPF                              1,000
f)  Unallocated                                     2,000
Total                                   16,000
3.29     IDA credit funds would be disbursed on the following basis:
(i)    Civil works: 100X of foreign and 75% of local expenditures;
(ii)   cargo handling equipment, navigation aids, floating craft,
spare parts, tools and materialst 100% of foreign and 60%
of local expenditures;
(iii) consulting services: 100% of foreign and 801 of local
expenditures; and
(iv)   training services and fellowships: 1001 of foreign and 601
of local expenditures. ,
3.30     All claims would be fully documented, except for claims relating
to any contract, purchase order, or training activity valued at less than
US$20,000, which would be submitted under statement of expenditures. The
documentation for these claims would be kept at MTRT and SEPT and made
available for inspection by IDA supervision missions. In order to expedite
and facilitate disbursements, MTRT and SEPT would each open a Special
Account in foreign currency at a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. IDA would deposit into M!RT's Account US$600,000
equivalent and into SEPT's Account US$400,000 equivalent. The Accounts
would be replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications. These
applications would also comprise a statement of account movements since the
last application, and a reconciliation showing that the balance represents
the original amount deposited in the account less payments for which the
application is submitted.
3.31     The estimated schedule of disbursements of IDA funds is shown in
Table 3.6. It is about 5% faster than the standard disbursement profile to
reflect disbursement of the PPF advance. The closing date for the Credit
would be March 31, 1993.



- 26 -
Table 3.6    Estimated disbursement schedule of IDA credit
Disbursement   Cumulative         Cumulative
IDA fiscal Year             During          Disbursement at   Disbursement
and Quarter                 Quarter         end of Quarter    As Z of total
-US$ million-
1987
March 31,1987                 1.0  1/     1.0                   6.3%
June 30, 1987                0.6          1.6                  10.0%
1988
Sept.30, 1987                0.6          2.2                  13.8%
Dec.31, 1987                 0.7          2.9                  18.1%
March 31,1988                0.8          3.7                  23.1%
June 30,1988                 0.8          4.5                  28.12
1989
Sep.30,1988                  0.8          5.3                  33.1%
Dec.3111988                  0.8          6.1                  38.1%
March 31,1989                0.8          6.9                  43.1%
June 30,1989                 0.8          7.7                  48.1%
1990
Sep.30,1989                  0.8          8.5                  53.1%
Dec.31,1989                  0.8          9.3                  58.1%
March 31,1990                0.8         10.1                  63.12
June 30,1990                 0.7         10.8                  67.5%
1991
Sep.30,1990                  0.7         11.5                  71.9%
Dec.31,1990                  0.7         12.2                  76.3%
March 31,1991                0.6         12.8                  80.0%
June 30,1991                 0.6         13.4                  83.8%
1992
Sep.30,1991                 10.6         14.0                  87.5%
Dec.31,1991                  0.5         14.5                  90.6%
March 31,1992                0.5         15.0                  93.8%
June 30,1992                 0.4         15.4                  96.3%
1993
Sep.30,1992                  0.3         15.7                  98.1%
Dec.31,1992                  0.3         16.0                 100.0%
NOTE _1/s This amount is repayment of the PPF.
November 10, 1986



I   - 27 -
I. Environmental Aspects
3.32     None of the proposed works will affect adversely the ecology of
Madagascars maintenance dredging of less than 20,000 m3lyear will be much
less than what was done through the 1960's. Initial dredging will be less
than 50,000 m3; annual dredging, a lower amount. Dredging spoils will be
disposed of at landfill sites at all locations. The civil works envisaged
consist mainly of paving of work areas and repairs to old piers. There
will be no changes in the demographic distribution as a consequence of the
project, nor will there be pollutant discharges into the sea.



- 28 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General Oblectives
4.01     As discussed in Chapter II, international and coastal shipping play
an important role in Madagascar's transport sector. Virtually the entire
foreign trade by volume is carried by sea while coastal shipping accounts
for about 202, or some 245 million ton-km, of the total domestic merchandise
traffic. Shipping, however, suffers from several constraints at many of the
nation's ports. The Government's subsector investment program, of which
this project is a major part, will attempt to alleviate the most important
constraints tv efficient port operation, and thus complement major
rehabilitation efforts in other subsectors.
4.02     The proposed project aims to reduce the cost of shipping primary
commodities such as rice, sugar, salt, cement and petroleum products, and to
fAcilitate exports through improved cargo handling.  The main quantified
direct result of port improvements would be improved ship utilization.
Proposed investments will lower the cost of exports of coffee and cloves
from Vohemar and Manakarat sisal from Tolagnero, textiles from Mahajanga
and meat from Morondava. By 1990, some 85,000 tons of these exports are
expected to have significantly lower handling costs. Improved cargo
handling in Toamasina will reduce the cost of imports and exports. Safety
and ship utilization will be greatly improved by rehabilitation of
lighthouses, buoys and other navigation aids. Cargo losses will also be
reduced by better cargo handling techniques. Costly reconstruction of
facilities will be kept to a minimum.
4.03     Wherever possible alternative investment proposals were evaluated
and the least cost solution adopted. For example: no dredging versus
dredging at Morondava, embankment versus pier on piles for the new pier at
Vohemar, and repairs versus new sheetpile wall at Mahajanga.
4.04     While the basic infrastructure at Toamasina is generally adequate,
the coastal shipping ports need limited dredging, rebuilding or repairing of
quays, and some new cargo handling equipment. Navigation is unsafe and
delays are .acurred because navigational aids are not in working order due
to corrosion and decay. The Government has been unable to allocate
sufficient resources to the maintenance of equipment and infrastructure.
Resource constraints dictate a selective approach to capital investments to
be included in this project. However, the institutional development
components of the project will address the resource management needs of the
sector globally. An important aim of this project is to provide Madagascar
with the capacity to prevent the recurrence of these past problems.
4.05     Because of the difficult terrain and lack of adequate
infrastructure, it has been said that Madagascar is an archipelago, rather
than an island. For example, some freight traffic between Antsiranana in
the north and Antsirabe, or between Toliara in the south west and
Antananarivo is shipped to Toamasina and is then trans-shipped by railway to
the central highlands (Mip IBRD #19595). The priority ports included in the
project are vital nodal points of domestic traffic linking Madagascar's
coastal regions to each other as though they were islands.



- 29 -
B. Forecqst of Future Traffic
4.06  ' As for other transport modes, port traffic levels depend to a large
extentlon the condition of and projected growth for the overall economy.
This has been particularly evident for imports of petroleum to Toamasina,
whereas coastal shipping has been less affected by variations in the
economic conditions, as indicated in Annexes 2.1 and 2.2. A forecast of
cargo traffic by port is shown in Annex 4.1. Dry cargo traffic is projected
to grow at about 12 p.a.; oil products traffic at 3.6% p.a. through 1995,
for the main ports of Madagascar.
4.07     MTRT, with the assistance of consultants financed under the PPF,
prepared traffic forecasts under different economic growth and development
assumptions. The most conservative of these forecasts has been adopted for
the economic evaluation of the proposed project. The proposed port
investients have been designed to complement the ongoing program of road
rehabilitation, taking into account the comparative cost advantage of
coastal shipping in the long haul of relatively low value commodities.
Because of planned road development and the difficult and costly nature of
port operations in Morondava, on the west coast, traffic in that port is
expected to decline.
4.08     Current economic trends support a GNP growth rate projection of
about 3% p.a. through 1990, about equal to the projected rate of population
growth.  Since 1979, imports of oil products have been declining, partly
becauie of substitution by hydroelectric power (Andekaleka power-station
finan_ed in part by Credit 817-MAG), partly because of declining exports,
mostly because of economic stagnation. This has affected the overall port
traffic volume significantly. With resumed economic growth, a rate of
growth of oil imports slightly higher than that for GDP is likely.
Similarly, dry cargo imports will also increase though at a lower rate than
oil imports. Export promotion programs supported by the Bank group and
other donors are expected to achieve positive results.   Traffic forecasts
have been established commodity by commodity after dividing the country into
economic zones for each port and under different growth scenarios.
4.09     In addition to the main agricultural exports such as coffee,
cloves, sisal, fish and cacao, the traffic forecasts take into account
projected domestic consumption of staples such as sugar, beans, bananas,
salt and corn. Exports of chrome, graphite and mica, and petroleum trade
have all been projected separately.   The forecast of dry cargo traffic is
summarized below:
1990               1995
Dry cargo exports        306,000 tons       362,000 tons
Dry cargo imports        447,000 tons       465,000 tons
Coastal shipping         236,000 tons       286,000 tons
4.10     As explained above, these traffic forecasts assume a low rate of
economic growth. Less conservative, but plausible projections of economic
growth would yield a forecast of 466,000 tons of dry cargo imports by 1990,
growing to 554,000 tons by 1995. Very low levels of rice imports have been
assumed to reflect higher domestic production which is expected to result
from the implementation of policy reforms supported by the Agricultural



- 30 -
Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.(1691-MAG). It was assumed that some of the
cement imports will be replac4d by coal imports for the new cement plant at
Ibity, south of Antairabe. Oil product traffic has been forecasted, but it
is nbt expected to have a significant effect on port requirements since
loading or unloading installations in most ports are specialized, are
adequately operated by SOLIMA, the national oil company, and do not require
improvements.
l
4.11     Traffic growth prospects for the seven ports excluded from the
project are limited. They are: Sambava, Antalaha and Maroantsetra in the
Northeast, Mananjary, eventually to be connected by the Pangalanes Canal on
the Southeast Coast, Morombe, Analalava and Antsohihy on the West Coast.
Total traffic in these ports in 1985 was only 46,300 tons. The traffic of
Sambava, Antalaha and Morombe is expected to shift to other ports with
better facilities and land access. Among the project ports, Vohemar and
Manakara show good prospects for coffee exports, whereas sugar ports such as
Nosy-be and Port St. Louis are likely to experience declining traffic.
Toamasina, Antsiranana and Mahajanga, which are recovering from the ravages
of the 1984 and 1985 cyclones, are expected to show moderate traffic
increases in the early 1990's as the economy improves.
4.12     In 1984, only about 44,800 tons, mainly general cargo imports and
coffee exports, was moved in containers in Toamasina. RNCFM, SEPT and
shipping agents are actively promoting this traffic with through bills of
lading. Containerization is expected to increase in several ports. The
pace at which this will happen is difficult to forecast but, judging from
other experiences with similar types of cargo, the proportion of exports and
imports likely to be shipped in containers will grow to about one third of
dry cargo traffic. By 1990, containerized imports to Toamasina, Tolagnaro
and Mahajanga are projected to grow to 153,000 tons and exports to 108,000
tons. By 1995, they could increase to 184,000 tons and 123,000 tons
respectively. In addition, about 55,000 tons coastal shipping traffic at
Antsiranana, Manakara and Vohemar can be expected to move in containers
after 1990.
C   Navigation Aids and Shipping
4.13     The condition of the shipping fleet and lighthouses, buoys and
other navigation aids is very poor because of age and lack of maintenance
funds, particularly foreign exchange. Hydrographic surveys have not been
carried out for some time. To avoid the risk of ship loss or damage,
prudent shippers have been reluctant to sail at night or during poor
visibility with the result of increasing voyage time and therefore costs.
Despite precautions, accidents have occurred: a number of ships have sunk
or have -un aground because lights were off, shoal markings were destroyed
by storms, and ships were poorly maintained. Losses of small passenger
carriers have occurred and some operators have found the cost of insurance
coverage to be prohibitive. Expected savings from the avoidance of losses
of human lives and ships have nQt been quantified. However, these losses
are of such a magnitude that the investment in rehabilitation of lighthouses
and buoys and the provision of spares for the coastal shipping fleet could
be fully justified on those grounds alone.
4.14     The only benefits which have been quantified for this project
component are those related to improved ship utilization. The benefits



- 31 -
expected to derive from improved safety of navigation, though substantial,
have not been quantified. Ship utilisation will improve mainly because
ships aill take less time than now to enter ports and they will be able to
work at night at lighterage ports. Savings for large ships, nearly all
Malagasy flag vessels, have been calculated on the basis of an average daily
cost of US$4,800 (FMG 2.9 million); for small vessels, US$840 (FMG 0.5
million) per day.
D. Cargo Handling Imlrovements and Dredging
4.15     The anticipated economic benefit of this component, the project's
largest, is a reduction in the transport costs to the users. In addition to
freight, transport costs include other expenditures such as insurance,
interest for capital tied up in goods while in transit, delays and cargo
losses. Many of these are very important but difficult to quantify in
direct relation to the conditions prevailing in each particular port. For
example, insurance rates in Madagascar, while very high, differentiate only
between ports with direct access from ship to shore and ports served by
lighterage operations. The direct beneficiaries would be exporters and
importers, freight forwarders and ship owners (para 4.19).
4.16     Cargo tariffs established by MTRT for coastal shipping only give a
partial indication of relative costs of different ports. Furthermore, as
customary, these tariffs do not apply to the use of chartered vessels. Over
the longer term, actual tariffs paid to ship owners do reflect the relative
costs of port handling, espe'cially since, due to the low productivity of
most ports, Malagasy ships spend a disproportionate amount of time in port
rather than at sea.
4.17     The best indicator of port productivity is vessel turnaround time.
If the rate is low, the vessel must wait in port longer than it would if
cargo moved at a faster rate.   Ship's waiting time affects the voyage
turnaround time and, because ships are expensive, the longer this time, the
higher the cost of shipping which must be recovered by the shipper through a
higher freight rate. As shown in Annex 4.2, current cargo handling rates at
most ports are low. The itprovements in productivity of cargo handling
expected to result from project investments in each port have been estimated
and are also presented in Annex 4.2. The savings in ship waiting time which
would derive from these productivity improvements as well as from dredging,
where applicable, provide a measure of projected economic benefits. Annual
benefits after project completion were calculated at about US$5.5 million,
equivalent to the annual cost of two typical deep-sea vessels and three
coastal vessels. This saving is unlikely to lead to a surplus of ships,
because many ships need to be phased out of service due to their old age and
poor condition.
4.18     All factors affecting ship time have been taken into account in
this analysis. Each port has been evaluated as a separate sub-project. All
project costs have been included in the analysis except training and the
indirect cost of technical assistance. In total about 861 of total project
costs have been separately evaluated. The costs and benefits calculations
for the individual sub-projects are presented in Annex 4.3. Details of the
methodology for the estimates are given in Annex 4.4 and a surnary for each
sub-project in Annex 4.5.



-32 -
4.19     Financial costs, excluding taxes and duties, have been used as the
basis for the economic cost calculations at price levels prevailing in mid-
1986. Costs for Malagasy flag ships in port or at anchorage are given in
Anneo 4.2,. One half of the typical demurrage rate, or some US$3,500 per
day has been used for all other flag vessels to estimate freight savings
importers and exporters are expected to make as a result of reductions in
ship waiting time. An FOB value of US$2.50 per kg has been used to
calculate savings in transit time for coffee. These assumptions are
consistent with international costs for similar ships. Ship time savings
will be monitored against the operational targets presented in Annex 2.8 for
Toamasina and in Annex 3.4 for other ports. A reduction in anticipated
damages and cargo losses of 12 of the cargo value has been used to calculate
the economic benefits of switching from lighterage to direct ship-to-shore
cargo handling operations. Current cargo insurance rates are as high as 4-
51 of the value of the goods.
4.20     Benefits which have not been quantified include institutional and
technological improvements this project is expected to help bring about. In
addition to promoting stronger and more effective institutions, the project
would facilitate the process of containerization already underway.
Equipment will be provided for handling 20-foot containers. This equipment
would enable exporters to ship high value commodities such as coffee by
containers from the port of origin through Toamasina where the containers
must now be stuffed. The use of LCT's on the west coast will be encouraged,
in addition to a general improvement of cargo handling. This will also make
it worth-while for ship owners to introduce more efficient vessels to take
further advantage of improved port productivity.
E. Economic Rate of Return
4.21     The project's overall economic rate of return has been calculated
at 292. The economic rate of return for the navigation aids and shipping
investments was calculated at 26S. Returns for individual ports were
calculated at rates ranging from 19% for Port St. Louis to 531 for Nosy Be.
Details are shown in Annex 4.5. The sensitivity of the economic rate of
return to changes in the level of costs and benefits was tested for each
project component. Annex 4.6 shows the results of this analysis and a test
of first year returns assuming an economic cost of capital of 121. If the
project's economic benefits were 201 lower than estimated, the project's
overall economic rate of return would still be satisfactory at ;2%.
Virtually all these tests yielded rates of return above the economic cost of
capital. In conclusion, even under the conservative traffic assumptions
adopted and taking into account only part of the expected economic benefits,
the project would be economically justified over a period of less than ten
years.
F. Risks
4.22     The main project risks are underestimation of costs and quantities
of project components and overestimation of the possibility of achieving
meaningful institutional reform. The first group of risks (costs and
quantities) is mitigated by several factors; civil works are limited in
scope and in most cases are not critical for the performance of other
project components; the equipment includes rather standard units for which
quotations are accurate, and if *Ete need should arise, adjustments could be



- 33 -
made in the quantities to be procured. The institutional risk is higher,
but nevertheless worth taking, because Government has already shown tangible
signs of its commitment to change: it has agreed to an excellent Action Plan
for SEPT, it has accepted the provision of technical assistance for project
implementation and for day to day ,perations. Restrictive covenants
covering all of the above are recommended. The port of Toamasina with its
powerful unions and low productivity presents an additional risk, which is
addressed by the Action Plan discussed in para. 2.27, and by the changes
already introduced by its new management.



- 34 -
V. FItUANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (SEPT)
1. Past Performance
5.01     SEPT's Income Statements for 1980-85 are shown in Annex 5.1;
Balance Sheets, in Annex 5.2; Funds Statementa, in Annex 5.3; and Ratio
Analysis in Annex 5.4. Table 5.1, below, shows SEPT's Financial
Highlights.
Table 5.1s SEPT's Financial Hixhlights
1981      1982       1983      1984       1985
---------uneudited--------       audited
(million FMG*s)
Port Revenues            4,400     3.671      4,985     4,391      4,954
Other Income               136        155       368        368       344
Working Expenses         3,642      3,984     4,167      4,947     5,531
Net Income                 115      (807)     (196)   (2,791)   (2,091),
Working Capital          3,559      2,889     3,638      1,335     (941)
Net Fixed Assets         6,229     6,011      5,677     4,502      4,364
Total Assets            18,075    17,199    17,707    13,051    13,350
Equity Capital           6,852     6,115      6,753     4,097      2,630
Traffic (thousand tons)   570        627        513       597        600
Working Ratio              83%       1092       842       1132      1122
Receivables (days)         806       906        718       371        327
5.02     The above table shows that SEPT's operating performance
deteriorated significantly from a net income of FMG 115 million reported in
1981 (1980, FMG 805 million) to losses of FMG 2,791 million in 1984 and FMG
2,091 million in 1985 (Annex 5.1). While revenues were rather stable,
salaries, paid to a work force averaging 4,500, increased 39% from FMG
2,713 in 1981 to FMG 3,759 in 1985, largely accounting for the rising
losses. In additiorn to port and cargo handling services, SEPT ope-ates the
Toamasina city buses, a forestry product division, and transport services
on the Pangalanes canal. A1l of these activities are operated at a loss.
The accounting firm that carried out the 1984 and 1985 external audits, the
first ones in SEPT's recent history, recommended extraordinary charges to
earnings of FMG 1,487 million in 1984 and FMG 766 million in 1985 to
reflect physical asset valuations, write-downs and loss provisions.
Adjustments to the 1985 financial statements may also be recommended once
the draft financial restructuring plan for SEPT is agreed between
Government and the donors. Final approval of such plan would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.03     The recent gradual erosion in SEPT's earning power has adversely
affected its financial condition, squeezed liquidity, and eroded its



- 35 -
capital base.. The current ratio has fallen from 1.5:1 in 1981 to O.9:1 in
1985; in 1985, SEPT had a negative working capital of FMG 941 million
(Annex 5.4). Though the amount of long term debt outstanding is relatively
low, the operating losses have created a need for a fresh infusion of
equity funds into SEPT's capital in 1986/7. The need is estimated at about
FMG 2.0 billion (US$2.7 million), pending finalization of the financial
restructuring plan.
5.04     Furthermore, during the period under review, SEPT's plant has
deteriorated and collection of receivables has been slow, which in turn has
forced SEPT to delay payments to suppliers. Despite stagnant traffic and
in the absence of significant tariff increases, revenue turnover increased
from 71% in 1981 to 114% in 1985 (Annex 5.4), reflecting a drop in the boos
value of net fixed assets from FMG 6,229 million in 1981 to FMG 4,364
million in 1985. This drop was the combined result of deferred maintenance
and lack of financial resources for equipment replacement.
5.05     Under pressure from the Minister of Transport, who is also SEPT
Board Chairman, SEPT's old management attempted to improve the rate of
receivable collection but the results were unsatisfactorys at the end of
1983, SEPT was carrying nearly two years - 718 days - of uncollected
revenues on its books; in 1984, 522 days; and, in 1985, an estimated 630
days. During the recent audit, receivables were written down to 371 days
for 1984 and 327 days for 1985. tack of financial controls, billing
delays, and lack of customer follow-up were part of the explanation, but
weak management appears to be the root cause of SEPT's poor financial
performance in this as well as other areas.
2. SEPT's Action Plan
5.06     At appraisal, the Government accepted that Bank support of the
proposed project be conditional on a satisfactory Action Plan for SEPT.
In November 1985, the Minister of Transport appointed an ipterministerial
committee with a clear mandate to prepare a comprehensive recovery plan for
SEPT by the end of March 1986. At the Government's request, IDA provided
financing for two consultants to the committee under a PPF advance. The
draft recovery plan was reviewed by an IDA mission in April 1986,
discussed, modified, and approved by the Council of Ministers in October
1986.
5.07     An Action Plan, essentially a summary of the recovery plan
prepared by the committee, waslagreed upon with SEPT's new General Manager
and is presented in Annex 2.8. The Action Plan includes specific targets
such as performance indicators, staffing requirements, and financial
provisions. More specifically, the initial Action Plan contains a list of
actions to be undertaken by SEPT in 1986, 1987 and 1988, sone of which are
linked to decisions to be taken by other Government agencies and by donors.
5.08     In addition, the Action Plan contains annual Operational
Performance Targets agreed upon with SEPT. These performance targets would
be reviewed and revised annually in consultation with the Bank. At
negotiations, implementation of the Action Plan was reviewed, its content
discussed and modified, .and assuran- as received that the Action Plan agreed
upon will be carried out as part of the project.



- 36 -
3. SEPT's Financial Projections
5.09     The major assumption used for projecting the financial statements
of SEPT is the implementation of the Action Plan presented in Annex 2.8.
In particular, it was assumed that SEPT will phase out its non-port
activities, improve staff productivity, and sensibly increase the rate of
receivable collection. In addition to the tariff increase approved by the
board in October 1986 (para 5.13), it was assumed that SEPT's tariffs would
further increase by 20% in real terms in 1987.
5.10     Traffic demand projections for general cargo and oil are presented
in Annex 4.1. and the projected rate of inflation is the same as that used
for estimating price contingencies on project costs (para 3.17).  Project
investments were added to SEPT's assets. New and existing fixed assets
were revalued each year and the added value credited to equity capital.
Debt drawdown, amortization, inteest and fees reflect the project
financing plan (para 3.19) and proposed onlending terms (para 3.21).
Details are shown in Annex 5.5.
5.11     SEPT's pro-forms Income Statements for 1986-95 are set out in
Annex 5.6; Balance Sheets, in Annex 5.7; Funds Statements, in Annex 5.8;
and Ratio Analysis, in Annex 5.9. Table 5.2, below, shows a summary of
SEPT's financial projections.
Table 5.2: SEPT's Summary Financial Projections
1986      1987      1988       1989      1990
-p-------------D rojected------------------
(million FMG's)
Revenues                 4,796     5,905      7,292     7,692     8,120
Working Expenses         5,153     5,388      5,632     5,895     6,174
Depreciation               526       668        810       892       993
Net Result               (883)     (151)        850       905       953
Working Capital          1,549     2,002      2,714     2,514     2,404
Net Fixed Assets         5,045     7,876    10,440    10,977    11,805
Total Assets            12,764    15,178    17,525    17,768    18,333
Equity Capital           2,538     3,136     3,498      3,672     3,789
Traffic (thousand tons)   590        580       570        560       550
@ 1986 FMG/ton           5,600     6,720     8,064      8,064     8,064
Annual increase      7%       20%       20%         -         -
Working Ratio              107%       91%        77%       77%       76%
Receivables turnover
(days)            415       323        252       197        153
Current Ratio                1.3       1.4        1.6       1.6       1.7
5.12     Table 5.2 shows that SEPT would need to charge customers real
tariff increases in order to gradually restore profitability and generate
sufficient cash to meet operating expenditures, to service its debt, and
fund its share of project investments. This goal is attainables it would
represent a sustainable burden to port users who have benefited from an
erosion in real terms of SEPT's average unit tariffs since 1980 (para



- 37 -
5.04). Users would willingly pay more than they now do for better port
service and savings in ship waiting time.
5.13     In order to enable SEPT to comply with the revenue covenant
proposed below (para 5.27) and to ensure a smooth tutrnaround in SEPT's
profitability, on October 31, 1986, SEPT.s board agreed to increase tariffs
by 502 (about 202 in real terms after accounting for local inflation and
currency depreciation as explained in para 3.20).
B4 The Ports Budget
1. Financial Condition
5.14     With the exception of Tosmasina, the Malagasy ports do not follow
commercial accounting practices, and do not issue income statements and
balance sheets. The Ports Department of MTRT in Antananarivo prepares an
annual budget of operating expenditures, investments and receipts of 17
main ports known as 'The Ports Budget'. This budget is prepared on a cash
basis and does not account for depreciation of fixed assets. Consultants
financed under a PPF advance have valued the ports' assets and revised the
1984 Ports Budget to include depreciation charges and other accruals. The
revised 1984 Ports Budget is presented in Annex 5.10. An explanation of
the main accounts is given in Annex 5.11.
5.15     Annex 5.10 shows that, in 1984* five of the 17 ports included in
the budget, Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Morondava, Port St. Louis and Nosy Be
reported operating receipts in excess of working expenditures, while only
three, Mahajanga, Port St. Louis and Nosy Be had sufficient income to cover
estimated depreciation charges. Because the profitable ports are the ones
with most traffic, the consolidated Ports Budget shows a cash surplus of
FMG 40 million or about 122 of gross receipts, after charging total working
expenditures. To cover depreciation charges, estimated at FMG 230 million,
receipts should have been 692 higher than they were. Revenue increases
re4uired in each port to balance the budget vary widelys in 1984,
Manakara, for instance, recovered only 302 of operating costs excluding
depreciation, while Antsiranana had a surplus of nearly 602.
2. Financial Prospects
5.16     A five-year financial projection of the Ports Budget is presented
in Annex 5.12. The assumptions adopted for the projection are given in
Annex 5.13. Essentially, the key assumptions are that (i) the Ports
Budget's revenues will equal total expenses; (it) staff will be reduced by
10%; (iii) the maintenance budget will increase threefold; and (iv) project
investments will be depreciated over their estimated useful life.
Individual financial projections of the six largest ports, Antsiranana,
Mahajanga, Hanakara, Nosy Be, Tolagnaro and Toliara, and aggregate
financial projections of eleven small ports are in the project file.
5.17     The financial projection of the Ports Budget shows that it will be
possible to achieve full cost recovery of the ports sector including
adequate depreciation charges for new and existing assets, a financial
charge for the use of Treasury funds, and adequate funds to catch up with
deferred maintenance, provided that tariffs are gradually increased in real
terms between 1986 and 1990.



- 38 -
C. The Cargo Handling Companies
5.18     The Government grants the exclusive right to handle cargo to a
private company in each port. In Mahajanga, however, it is estimated that
about one third of the total traffic is handled by others, wostly ship
owners. The financial statements of five of these companies have been
reviewed and filed. The analysis has shown operating losses and
insufficient liquidity, resulting from inadequate tariffs and plethoric
staff.
5.19     As was the case for the ports, the analysis revealed great
disparities in cost recovery rates among the various companies. However,
unlike the ports, where the case could be made for attaining cost recovery
globally, each company must be financially viable for the obvious reason
that one investor cannot offset his losses against another investor's
profits. It is the Government's policy to ensure that investors in
companies that perform a vital role in the economy of the country, as these
companies do, earn an adequate return on their investment.
5.20     To implement its policy, the Government must take concrete
measures, including the setting of new rates for cargo handling and
lighterage, that would enable each company to pay MTRT adequate concession
fees (currently the source of about 50% of total receipts of the Ports
Budget), meet operating expenditures, and have a sufficient incentive to
continue investing in their operation so as to reduce to a minimum the
financial burden of the ports to the Treasury.   At negotiations,
assurances were received that Government, with the assistance of
consultants financed under the project, will review the level and structure
of all port related rates and will revise them, in consultation with IDA.
While it is understood that the required revisions may be taken in steps,
the target date of June 30, 1988 was agreed for the rate revisions to
become fully effective (para 5.27).
D. Financial Objectives
5.21     The main financial objective of the proposed project is to
reestablish full cost recovery for the port sector. Regarding the port of
Toamasina, implementation of the agreed SEPT's Action Plan (para 5.07) is
expected to ensure the achievement of this objective.
5.22     Regarding the ports budget, Government's objective is to set port
tariffs at a level that would ensure the recovery of all costs, including
depreciation, and the generation of a profit to finance working capital and
debt service requirements. Ideally, these objectives should be achieved
for each port as well as for the consolidated Ports Budget. However, in
view of the great diversity of local operating conditions, the low volume
of traffic of the small ports and their vital role in providing what is
often the only outlet to the rest of the country for small isolated
communities, it appears reasonable to pursue the priority objective of full
cost recovery individually for the six largest ports. These ports are
Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Manakara, Nosy Be, Tolagnaro and Toliara.
Together, they account for over 80S of traffic at the ports under MTRT's
administration. In order to balance the consolidated Ports Budget, the six



- 39 -
largest ports need only generate a small extra profit to offset the losses
of the small ports.             !
5.23     Finally, regarding the cargo handling companies, the objective is
to enable the private investors to earn a reasonable after tax return on
their investment. Because the six companies in the largest ports belong to
five different groups of investors, the tariff adjustments must be made
individually for each of those ports taking into account the differences in
each local situations, the type of operation, the facilities and equipment
currently available and individual investment plans.
5.24     It is expected that it will take about three years to bring about
the overall level of rates required to ensure full cost recovery for the
ports sector. Therefore, this process, which started in December 1985 when
the Government approved substantial rate increases in most ports, should be
concluded in 1988. As further evidence of Government's commitment to
sector reform, and to ensure that the right signals are sent to private
investors, ship owners and traders, as well as public sector entrepreneurs,
the Government undertook a second round of rate increases in October 1986,
before negotiations of the proposed Credit.
5.25     The new rate increases were as follows:
Table 5.3: Rate Increases
Port:                   Port dues                     Cargo Rates
Antsiranana                 40X                           402
Mahajanga                   45%                            452
Manakara                    302                            302
Nosy Be                      02                           752
Tolagnaro                  30X                            302
Toliara                    432                            432
Other Ports                 02                             02
5.26     The above rate increases are warranted by the analysis of the
existing situation and the projections presented in this chapter.  The
increase approved for cargo handling rates at Nosy Be is higher than that
for other ports because the local cargo handling company has experienced
falling traffic and a four-year rate freeze. By contrast, port dues at
Nosy Be were increased by over 1002 in 1985 and were not revised in 1986.
E. Financial Covenants
5.27     In order to assist the povernment and the Bank monitor financial
performance and the achievement of the project financial objectives
outlined above, the following protective covenants were agreed:
(i)   SEPT and Government will take all steps necessary to ensure
that, beginning in 1988, SEPT's operating revenue will be no
lower than the sum of total operating expenses, including a
depreciation charge calculated on revalued assets, interest
and amortization on all borrowed moneys as they may be
adjusted following currency fluctuations, and dividends and
other retributions on capital if any;



- 40 -
(i4)    SEPT will not undertake any investments larger than
US$300,000, other than those included in this and other
ongoing development projects revimeed by the Bank without the
explicit consent of the Bank;
(iii)   Government will not undertake investments estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$50,000 or more in the ports subsector,
other than those described in the project, without prior
consultation with the Bank;
(iv) Government will take all steps necessary to ensure that,
beginning in 1988, the Ports Budget's operating revenue will
be no lower than the sum total of operating expenses,
including a depreciation charge calculated on revalued assets,
and a capital charge of at least 102 calculated on the value
of net fixed assets in use by the 17 ports included in the
Ports Budget;
(v) by December 31, 1987, Government will complete a review of the
structure and level of port tariffs, cargo handling charges
and concession fees, and consult with the Bank on the outcome
of such review; and
(vi) by June 30, 1988, Government will revise the level and
structure of all port related charges after taking into
account the Bank's coaments.
5.28     Within six months of the end of each fiscal year, SEPT will submit
to the Bank its financial statements, including statement of expenditures
(para. 3.30), audited by independent accountants acceptable to the Bank.
The Government will also submit to the Bank audited consolidating
statements for the Ports Budget. The auditors will be required to attach a
report of compliance with financial covenants to the audit reports.
Finally, within six months of the closing date of the Credit, the
Government and SEPT will prepare and submit to IDA a completion report for
the project.



_ 41 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     Before negotiations, the Government approved port tariff increases
substantially in the amounts presented in para 5.25.
6.02    IAt negotiations, the following matters were discussed and
agreement reacheds
(i)   Project Implementation Schedule (para 3.22);
(ii)   Ports performance indicators (para 3.24);
(iii)   SFPT's Action Plan (para 5.08); and
(iv)   Proposed financial covenants (paras 5.27- 5.28)
6.03     Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and submission of a
Financial Restructuring Plan for SEPT satisfactory to the Bank would be
conditions of Credit effectiveness (paras 3.20 and 5.02).
6.04     Subject to the above conditions, the Project would be suitable for
a Credit to Madagascar of US$16.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.
November 14, 1986



- 42 -
Annex 1.1
Psac 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Public Invesetent Plans for the Transuort Sector
1984 - 87                            1986 - 90
FMG billions                         FMG billions
Foroin    Local       Total         Foreign    Local        Total
Hiahway
Infrastructue
Rehabilitation               88.146    53.061    141.207         113.245    59.161    172.406
Workshop, equipment,          2.782      2.951      5.733
and studies                                                      4.423        610       5.033
90.928    56.012    146.940         117.668    59.771    177.435
Rail Trgns2ort
Rehabilitation                6.076      2.552      8.628         16.9S7    10.105       27.062
New Works                      --        1.000       1.000                    3.800       3.800
Studies & Tech. Asst.                                              2.502         711      3.213
6.076     3.552       9.628         19.459    14.616       34.075
Air Transport
Rehabilitation                 --        7.566      7.566          5.507      3.634       9.141
New Works                      -           168         168
Studies & Techn. Asst.                                                300                   300
--       7.734       7.734          5.807      3.634       9.44k
Maritime Transport
Rehabilitation                8.073        819      8.892          8.129      2.776      10.905
New Projects                    714     2.427       3.141
Studies & Techn. Asst.          -                    -             1.759        42Z       2.181
8.787     3.246      12.033          9.888      3.198      13.086
River and Canal Transport
Rehabilitation               13.310      1.490     14.800         19.976      2.219     22.195
(Canal of Pangalanes)
Studies                                                  -           755        160        915
13.310     1.490      14.800         20.731      2.379     23.110
National Transport Plan           782         40        822            806        567       1.373
TOTAL                         119.883    72.074    191.957         174.359    84.165    258.524
Sources MTRT
March 1986



- 43 -
Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILItATION PROJECT
Development of Port Traffic 1977-85
(000) tons
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Antsiranana    112.9   205.1   157.0   226.5   186.5   191.9   119.1    93.4   117.5
Vohemar          12.0    14.9    17.6    22.2    25.1    29.2    30.6    27.5    27.9
Sambavall         8.1     8.8      6.5     8.7      3.1     2.8      -       -       -
Antalahal/        9.3     4.7      5.2     5.0      6.4     4.6      5.1     3.4    10.0
Maroantsetral/  11.2    14.7    13.6    13.3    11.9        8.1      6.9     6.1      9.5
Toamasina    1,363.4 1,148.5 1,252.7 1,429.9 1,167.6 1,222.7   954.5   921.8 1,194.0
Manakara         61.1    88.2    74.6    61.6    60.8    56.8    50.5    65.0    56.9
Mananjaryl/      16.9     9.9    15.5    28.9    33.1    24.5    15.2    13.4    11.0
Tolagtaro        43.8    38.3    39.2    36.4    41.5    35.3    35.0    32.5    24.6
Nosybe-Port
St. Louis    150.7   156.8   130.9   175.2   117.0   172.5   234.3   236.9   123.7
Analalava- 11I
Antsohihyl/   24.0    42.5    60.7    57.2    36.8    29.8    12.4    27.9         9.4
Mahajanga       351.5   386.0   423.0   385.6   307.0   319.6   243.3   197.9   183.7
Morondava        16.4    16.5    17.3    22.9    20.8    15.2    15.7    34.9    55.3
Toliara          93.4    92.4    78.4    96.9    97.8    97.6    76.0    66.9    66.5
Morombel/        13.6    16.4      9.1     8.3      5.2     5.0      9.2    10.4     6.4
2,288.3 2,243.7 2,301.3 2,578.6 2,120.6 2,215.6 1,807.8 1,738.0 1,896.4
Source:  Service des Douanes
May 1986
/1 Not a project port.



- 44 -
ML8X 2.
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Develoomnt of Toamasina traffic 1978-84
a 7.L    1 71      1980       9fi     1982      1983      1984
cargo                                (000)  tons
Imports
Rice                86.7      91.0    122.4    134.2    232.8    150.2    100.5
Other dry cargo   205.0    241.1    251.3    153.3    153.7    151.1    199.9
Exports            175.3    193.9    175.1    150.5    151.4    124.4    189.2
Cabotage            69.4    118.8    118.1    129.8        88.8     87.1    107.3
Total              536.4    644.8    666.9    567.8    626.7    512.8    596.9
Petroleum products
612.1    607.9    763.0    597.8    596.0    441.7    324.9
Total traffic   1,148.5  1,252.7  1,429.9  1,167.6  1,222.7    954.5    921.8
Source: S.E.P.T.
January 1985



- 45 -
Annex28
MADAGASCAR
PORTS RNASILITATION PROECT
CobotOeo Fleet as tf Novgemr 19865
Draft
Comrnny       Shi              OW           --                T e          Current Rout
CMN           Onib             SW0?        6.6 a.    197w   OC             Toes.lna4oAfr-Comors-O Iego-Toss
Ontlaby         6827         8.6       1979    CC            maheJenlo-Mozem-mahaJangs
Se,iboks        100         7.5       1962    QC            Toam-SoAfr-Colomb.-Slngapore-
Reunlon-Mouritius-Toe.
V.deMsnnknre    1550         4.0       19"1     C            Toua-Mnakera-Toe.
Vetay           1460         4.6       1957    CC            TowamD Ie"o-Nosy Be-Uhmi anga-To lIars-
Menkeara-Toam
Vat.y 4 '       1014         2.9       1960    LCT           Tonm-To Iare-Morondava-Tollara-Toes
Vatty 8         1014         2.9       1979    LCT           Tim chartered for drilling support
Vatay 2          2C0         2.1       1979    LCT           Toem-M roanteetra-Toam
J. Ream         1t0          1.8       1977    LCT           Tollare-Morondava-Tollara
Trans 7       Vole             120         3.0 (ost) 1969    CC             (1) Toa.-Voh.ar-Dl.go-MahaJ nga-Toam
(2) Tom-Manakakre-Toe.
Baby            106n         8.0 (set) 1972    CC            Tomn-TToliara-NahaJsng*-Manakara-Toam
Kait          Kartal           1400        3.5 (..t) 1964    QC
Soliu          Tlsirero       68S0         7.2        1978    Butan-/Oll   Toam-Round Island
Bemeolng        4060         6.0       1962    Oil             '
Tolsisnraka     28S0         4.8       1987    Oil             '     t
Cap d'Ambro      206         1.9       1906    Oil           Local delivery from Mahajanga
Tongatetpa       10          2.0       1970    Oil
Isle de France   106         2.0       1970    Oi l                          5
Socotrat      Ce.. Pau          250        2.6        1919    QC           West Cost service
Hoded            250         2.2       1910    CC                    *
Yealy Raded     10          1.9       19.r    PL            Local service ftro  Mahajanga
Sofia            120         1.2       197W    PL              '     S
Mountaxar         90         2.2       1970    PL                    * 3   S
Mareebitey        90         1.0       1940    PL              a     5     U         r
Eric Express  No. 1             860        2.6 (set) 1945    LCT           West Coast service
Tawakal       Ravinala           60        1.t       1964    PL            Local service from Mahajanga
(ox Fiama)    Hereul            gO         1.5       N/A     PL                    *     I
Vitaforns        120         2.8               PL              ^           *         a
Lewis Upton   Msjungais         20         2.6        1987    Cc           West Coast service
Wubbind          210         2.2       1980    cC              *     a *
Transmed      St. Louis          06        2.2 (set) N/A      PL           Local service West Coast
No. 2             69 (ent)  1.5 (*et) N/A      PL                  



- 46 -
Annex 2.8
Pose 2 of 2
Draft
Company       Ship            tW-        G;;d        Built   TYD          Current Route
Foul Bay      Cheelanol        100         1 2 (st) N/A      8            Loeal eirvice West Coast
Nafoia            3o        2.0 ("ot) N/A      T/C            '     r      *
No. a             S  (eat)  1.5 (set) N/A      PL           Port servicte i Mahajasna
Sto Trans-    Pangalans        U1          N/A,      1062    CC           East Cost Service
ports Marl-
timse Cot.
Est
Caroi         Premier           so         2.0 (set) N/A     ac           Nose Be-Ambanjn
CIC           N/A              1   (ett)  2.6 (set) N/A      QC            Local service from Mahajanga
Aximar        Fast 1             8          .8       1984    LCT           Oil tiold servico from Merondava
Legend:
OC - Coneral Cargo Vessel  PL  - Powored Lighter
LCT - Beach Landing Vossel   B  - SC rge
Oil - Tankor                T/C - Tug with cargo capacity
Sourco: MTRT, tonsultants
February 1988



- 47 -
PTS R BILUTAIN FJCT
Port 1Iatllatla9n
Po"t                    _dLJ                                                      ubdirn,          ;i.LIiM  2t11akLn 
ANTSIRANANA    WelI          Eoy            Dir.ct       801         8.50             1.4o                                         18,000      9,000
protected                    to 4uay       62         4.50                         Good                            15 000      9,000
81        2.00                          Gootd
VOHS"IR        Veol I         a.            DiOect         80        8.20             0.98          diuo                                         B00
protected                   to Quay
SAM4AVA        Estuary       Badly          LiGhterage    wood                        0.98         modius         Little            8.000        700
cited                       dock                                                   improved beach
AN-ALAMA       Eapo.d        Difficult      Lightersge    wood do1ck                  0.98         medium                           2,000        563
MAROANTSETRA   Calm          Peor           Lighterego    20 wood                     0.70         medium         Bosch 800S   away              450
TOASIN         Good          EASY           Dir ct        259         8.80            0.70         0ood                            80,000     67,000
to Quay      1oo         6.80
1I0         9.00
171.8      12.00
192         3.80
41        10.00
354.8      10.00
190         3.80
200         8.80
MANANJARY      Exposed       Poor           Lighteruo   3 x S0        0.80 (actual)  0.80          Nsd)ua                           6,S00      3,400
Siltod                        30        1.40(in theory)
MANAKARA       Expo.ad       Poor           Lighttor    1Jo00        4.50             0.80         Needs re- S21pey                 7.800      2,000
Suited                       88 1920 3  t.so                          contutt6o5
1833
21
6O
TOLAO4AR       Expoaed       Exposed        Lightersge    48         0.80             0.30         Good           Slupwa;O         8,800       3.000
71.       1.00 (actual)                                Cron* 0
8.80(,n theory)
TOLIARY        Eel           lay            Direct to    120         7.80 (actual)   2.10          Good                            7.800       2.100
sheltered                    Quay and      90         *8:0(,n theory)
lighteraes    2 x 32    2.00 (actual)                 Meadium                                     8.500
2 x 82     2.50(Cn theory)
EORBE          Sheltered    Easy             Lighterage    1S        0.00             2.70                                            -          -
MORW.VAVA      Expoa.d       Difficult      Lighterage    50         2.80             2.40         fedius         beaching by      13,425      2.575
Si ltitxg                                                                           AMOCO
MHAAJANCA      Sheltered    Difficult       Lighterage   183         Dry at low tide  2.90         ledium         S     chnpcy OIC  88,000    17.800
Silting                      184                                                    Port Schneider
109        1.00
164        1.00
IS0        1.00
ANTSOHIHY      River         Difficult      Quay aem      l00        8.0               3.00        Good           Beaching         11.000      1,000
Coastere     100
NOSY-BE        SheItered    Esey            Lighterage   160         1.80             2.80         Hediuo         Ports of:        20.000      3,380
as        2.00                                        SOLIMA 50m
100        0.00                                        PEOE jetty
SLICR8IE 100.
PORT SAINT     Exposed       at hi,h-       Lighterage   100         1.00             2.20                        2   -lipwaya     2,000      s9.000
;LOUIS         atoor,ng      tide                          SO        0.00                                         crane of Ist
Source: Consultants
F*bruary 1986



- 48 -
Annex 2.5
Page 1 of 4
Hadagascar
Ports Rehabilitation Project
Physical description of the port sector
East coast
1.       Antsiranana.  The main activity of the city in which the port is
located is the SECREN shipyard, even though the port does serve as an
evacuation point for local produce (mainly salt), reception point for local
consumption, and in a reduced role as transshipment point for export. The
port has 414 m of piers, generally in good condition, of which 301 m have
8.5 m water depth, and the rest is used for coastal shipping, and small
craft. The port is located in an excellent site, with good depth, easy
access, and year around shelter. However the productivity is very low due
to limited port handling equipment, particularly cranes, tractors and
chassis and due to poor condition of the pavement and rolling surfaces,
which worsens the cargo handling equipment situation, by accelerating its
wear and tear. During 1984 cyclone Kamisy produced damages to the
infrast;ucture, which have now been repaired through an IDA Emergency
Credit.
2.       Vohemar. The main acti'tity of the port has been export of coffee
for transshipment at Toamasina, Its role will be increased due to a recent
Government decision to re-route port traffic from SambavL and Antalaha to
Vohemar. The port is located in a shaltered bay, with a rather limited
access, but sufficient for the largest coastal ships operating around
Madagascar. The port's only pier is a T-shaped installation, with a 50 m
long pier, connected to land by a 37 m trestle. The pier needs repairs due
to a collision with a ship, a complete reconstruction of its fendering
system, and possibly reconstruetion of the superstructure and additional
piles. There are very limited storage yards and a small warehouse in the
vicinity of the pier. The productivity of the port is limited due to the
condition of the pier, to the difficult operation resulting from a narrow
trestle connection to an equally narrow pier, to the lack of nearby yards
and warehouses, and to the lack of suitable equipment: chassis, forklift,
and a crane which would permit the shipment of coffee directly in
containers. Also indispensable are a line handling workboet and wood
pallets.
3.       Toamasina. The ma..n port of Madagascar, located in a rather
exceptional site on the east coast, Toamasina is naturally sheltered by
reefs and the coastline configuration, and has excellent natural water
depth. Toamasina has been developed by stages, the latest of which
(extension of pier C and prolongation of the breakwater) was completed in
1975. Like the rest of the ea3t coast, the port is vulnerable to Indian
Ocean cyclones, and was setiously damaSed by Honorinina in March, 1986. The
port has relatively good access, but large ships require tug assistance.
Though litoral drift may cause some siltation problems in the future, it is
not at present a serious problem.



I - 49-
Annex 2.5
Pasge 2 of 4
4.       The port, with 1300 m of piers and depths ranging from S to 12 m,
can accommodate simultaneously four ships, one tanker, three coastal
shipping vessels, and a number of small craft. The available yard surface
is about 80,000 m2, and the combined surface of sheds and warehouses is
about 60,000 m2. In addition, there are specialized handling and storage
facilities for bulk, grains, and liquids, as well as refrigerated storage.
The general condition of the infrastructure is satisfactory, except for the
yards and tolling surfaces which arp in very poor condition, the inadequate
drainage and electric and water distribution networks, and the loss of fill
material being experienced at Mole C, where the newest and deepest piers
are located. Moreover, there is need for improvements to the maintenance
shops and for lighting of some storage areas. The equipment existing at the
port though generally sufficient in quantity, is in very poor state of
conservation due to very poor maintenance; much of it needs replacement.
Additionally, there is the major problem of the inadequacy of the chrome
ore handling system, which needs to be reconstructed to be able to take
large lumps. The damages to the breakwater, caused by Honorinina, are
extensive and need to be repaired urgently, which will be carried out under
the Supplemental Credit for Emergency Cyclone Repairs.
5.       Toamasina, in spite of having sufficient physical plant as well as
reasonable cargo handling equipmen,t and facilities, has an extremely low
productivity, one of the world's lowest for a similarly equipped port. The
port's poor performance can be attributed primarily to management and labor
problems, and to a lesser extent to lack of access to foreign exchange for
procurement of spare parts, and an almost incessant rainy season, which
interferes with daily stevedoring operations. As illustration of how low
productivity really is, the port of Mahajanga using lighterage and even
poorer working conditions, has consistently had better productivity than
Toamasina. The problem is institutional. In April 1986, SEPT initiated a
major plan to improve the situation, which was considered acceptable by a
Bank mission, and which is covered in more detail in   Annex 2.8
6.       Manakara. The main coffee exit point for Madagascar, and serving
the hinterlands of Parafangana and Fianarantsoa, Manakara is an important
lighterage port, oqapable of receiving coastal steamers, provided they are
equipped with gear to carry out lighterage operations. The port is located
at the estuary of the river Manakara, fully sheltered against the seas; it
has about 250 m of shallow piers, part of which are in urgent need of
repairs; the yards behind the piers are in very poor condition, in need of
repairs and paving. There is also need to provide lighting in order to
commence loading of barges before daylight. The equipment is quite suitable
to the needs, and only a forklift and an additional barge are required, as
replacement of very old units which are about to be decommissioned.
7.       The main problem of this port is to keep the 'pass" or access
channel open to the lighters, a task which requires periodic dredging. The
existing dredge has done a satisfactory job, but requires spare parts, as
well as some major repairs; also there is a need for a new slipway to
repair small craft, as the old is completely silted, and it would be more
expensive to repair it than to build a new one.



- 50 -
Annex 2.5
Page 3 of 4
8.       Tolagnaro. Taking advantage of a natural bay, but having limited
protection against the seas, reduced at present to about 2.5m water depth,
Tolagnaro is a lighterage port serving the area of the some name. The
physical infrastructure consists of about 100 m of piers, a rather
restricted storage area, a silted slipway and a barge maintenance area with
a heavy lift. Generally the condition of the installation is reasonably
good, except for the yards and rolling surfaces, which badly need repairs.
Also the port has no security enclosure, and the electric distribution
system needs to be worked over. The lifting equipment is very old and spare
parts are no longer available for some of it. The barges used in lighterage
operations are in terrible condition, and it is not practical to continue
rebuilding them periodically.
West Coast
9.       Toliara.  A sheltered port, built on an reef and connected to the
shore by a trestle, provides 8.5 m depth berth side mooring, as well as
lighterage possibility for larger vessels. Though it is generally in good
condition, repairs are required for tht access trestle, the pier, and the
yards. Lack of area lighting prevents night operations. A small amount of
dredging is required periodically, and because it has not been done the
available depth at pier side has been reduced considerably. Some of the
equipment is very old and needs to be replaced; there is currently no tug
available for the lighterage operationa; and given the distance between the
port and warehouses in the town, it is indispensable to acquire some
chassis to complete the existing fleet.
10.      Morondava. The port is currently the only available means of
communication between the area and the rest of the country, but this
situation will shortly change as a new road will be open towards the
plateau region. Port Bebe is situated on a canal accessible via the mouth
of the Morondava river through a "pass" subject to continuous siltation and
erosion. Dredging was carried out periodically until about 10 years ago,
and it has not been done since. Even though the pass is dry at low water,
there is always a 2.Om tide which allows lighterage vessels to enter or
exit in a narrow but well defined time window. Oil exploration has been
been very active, based on Morondava, and the firms carrying it out have
used LCT vessels, which can be "beached" directly, without need to access
the canal and Port Bebe. This approach was studied by the consultants as
the normal operation of the port, and discarded as impractical; instead the
recommendation is to use shallow draft, beaching type motorized barges, in
conjunction with a "beach" inside the pass, next to Port Bebe. This
approach, though a still lighterage operation, would render dredging
unnecessary. Also required would be resurfacing of the yards, lighting and
drainage works, and replacements for aged equipment, tractor, chassis, and
forklifts.
11.      Hahajanga. A lighterage port, located in the estuary of the
Betsiboka river, it has been the second port of Madagascar, and in the past
has competed with Toamasina. There has been significant changes of the
estuary configuration due to the siltation produced by the river sediments,
but these have not yet seriously affected the port operations. In spite of
the absence of dredging, smaller coastal vessels (150 dwt or less) can
continue to berth alongside. The larger ones (over lOOOdwt). were never able



- 51 -
Annex 2.5
Page 4 of 4
to anter the harbor. The productivity of the port Is comparable to that of
Toamasina, which is an achievement considering that it requires lighterage.
Damage produced by the 1984 cyclone (Kamisy) is largely repaired and some
new equipment is already in operation. However, repairs to very old piers
are needed to prevent their complete destruction, and the yards need to be
paved to reduce damage to cargo handling equipment. Efficiency would be
enhanced if the port's very l4mited capability for handling of containers
would be increased. Some of the lighterage barges are no longer suitable to
be repaired, and thus new ones should be acquired. In addition to the above
a hclearing' of rip-rap which was displaced Is urgently required to prevent
damage to the vessel's bottom, as "bottoming" occurs at every low tide.
12.      Nosy-Be. The public facility at Hellville is an important
lighterage port. In addition there are private facilities operated by
sugar, fishing and oil interests, which permit direct access to coastal
vessels and lighterage for deepse4 vessels. The public pier, a very old
structure, is in need of repairs, and it also requires some paving to
increase its efficiency and reduce damage to the equipment; the lighterage
craft is in extremely poor condition, and replacement barges and a small
tug are urgently needed.
13.      Port Saint Louis. A private concession to SIRAMA a sugar and
molasses export company, it is lo9ated at the estuary of the river Mahebo.
It is a tidal lighterage operation, in which the barges sit in the bottom
at every low tide, and exit or return only during the high tide periods.
Dredging was carried out continuously until 1981, but it is not certain
that it should be re-started, as the costs do not seem justified by the
benefits, and the exports can in fact continue by lighterage at hign tide.
The pier is very old and needs repairs.



- 52
ANNEX 2.6
Pag. 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHA ILITATION PROJECT
NEW ORGANIZATION
I CIVIL AVIATION
SERVICES
FINANCES
X   METEOROLOGY
NAVIGATION AIDS              SERVICES
DIVISION_
INFRASTRUCTURE   _           SEAWAYS
SERVICES_
DIVISION 
MERCHANT MARINE
1 RR. ~~SERV2CES                                          i.
FDREDOING DIVISION   |-__ _A
LOCAL                   PROVINCIAL    1
REPRESENTATION              SERVICES
OPERATIONS          [       PORT
4 1   SERVICES       J
ADMINISTRATION
FINANC
TARIFFS AND
STATISTICS_
ELUP-



-53-
ANNEX 2.7
Page I of I
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGLNIZATION CHART - SEPTEMBER 1985
CIVIL AVIATION|
SERVICE_
METEOROLOGY 
| SERVICES 
xAVIGATION ArDS         MERCHANT MARtINE
DIVISION      _SERVICES                _
. DREDGING                 MARITIME 
j DIVISION      __         SERVICES       _     
HYDROGiAPHY   _                                   Co
j DIVISION                                  _        0
I z
PORT                 EXTERNAL MARINE         
| AUTHORITY                SERVICES       _o
OPERATIONS                                      _
DIVISION     _
INVOICING.
OFFICE_
TREWASURY 
DISBURSEMENTS     __
OFFICE
| SUPPLIES                   ACCOUNTING                PORT  
I  OFFICE        r     |     DIVISION                SERVICES 
PERSONNEL     |_
OFFICE|
| PROCUREMENT      -
OFFICE 
STUDIES
DIVISION
June 1986



- 54 -
Fe-g I of 4
MADAGASCAR--PORTS REHMSIUTATION PROJECT
SEPT ACTION PLAN
(tNt     oaone: this schedule Indicates the proposed
date for vorious meaours. Actual dates would
depend on certain external fators
descrlbed herein as constraints)
Coementa or
Nr.    C A T E 0 0 R Y                           DATE         Constraint*    Explanation
A.  ORGANIZATION
Rolinguiehing subsidiary activities
la     stop bus operations and l1y-off           Spt,. 1980             done
staff
lb     divestiture of municipal bus-lines        DOc/S1/W   ye          To be taken over  by a munieipal
transport authority
20     stop forostry operations and lay-         end 1908
of f staff
2b     divestiture of forestry operations        1937        y          Agreement wIth a firs yet to
be Identified
3a     Stop Inland water transport service        nd 1993
3b     divestiture of the Pangalanoe  Canal      1"7        Yes         To be negotiated wlth IMI
Transport Authority
- Internal reoranization
4      New management team                       Jan. 1987
6      reorganization                            Jan 1937               With the help of consultants
financed under PPF
e      training of new managers
a) In general managment                   July 1937              In conjunction with the uni-
versity and project training
component
b) in port management                     1938
Reduction of personnel:
7      Introduction of early retirment program
8      Divestiture of subsidiary activities      project
period
*Actions by Institutions other then SEPT.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Pae 2 of 4
Nr.    C A T E 0 0 R Y                            DATE       Constraint Coements or
Explanation
9_ SOlective analysis of 658 fi%ed-term
contracts
10     Abolition of automatic confirmation of
daily workers                              Moy I988              done
11     Introduction of uniform conditions of      pro1act    yes        Study Included In the projeet
*mployment                                 poriod
12     Creation of a Dmaortment of Human
Rolatlona:                                 Sop 198B              done
13    M"sures rogarding punctuality and           Sep 1986
attendonce                                                       done
14     Restoration of tho administrative
buildings of SEPT                          May 198
15     Development and Introduction of new        project    ye.         Study Included In the projeet
EDP system                                 poriod
B  FINANCES
18     First modification of tariffs              Jul 198    yes        Approval of Ministry of Flaonces--
done
17     1988 budgot review                         Oct 1988              done
18     Preparation of 1987 budget                 Nov 1988              done
19     Introduction of manageont information
system; monthly follow-up on budget        Feb 1987
20     Monthly cash-budgeting system              Fob 198?
21     Analytical aecounting system               project
period
22,23  Instant billing                            July 1988             done
24     New procedure for preparing budget         July 1988             done
25     Procedure for purchase of spare parts:                           Approval ot Ministry of Finance-
-      EPI ACCOUNT                                June 1988  yes        VERY IMPORTANT STEP--done
28     New tariff structure                        1989      yes        Must follow the introduction
of analytical accounting system
Technical Assistance to be
provided under the project
27     Roconciling or rescheduling of credits    July 1988
and debt.
28     Auditing of 1985 accounts                  Sep 1986              done
29     Introduction of a system of debt            I
recovery with aceptable dolays             Apr 1907



- 56 -
Abmx 2
Nr.    C A T E 4 0 R Y                           bATE         Constralnt    Explanation
-      C EXPLoITAiON. OERATIONS. PRODucTiVIY 
30     Clean up of port fscillties2 *crap        end 19s
I Pon
81     Paving of terrain and access roads:
tilling of potholes                       end less
32     flushing of gutters                       Oct low                done
83     Lighting                                  Jan. log?  ye          Depends on JIRAM
34     Security against ptifering                Project
period
36     Sectorization                             Apr 1987               To be folloed up
38     Unloading of rice In bulk                 end 19BW   yoe         Depends on political
decisions; purchase of two
pices of mtahinery of the
Vigan or Vacuvttor type;
typo; oval labilIty of pares--done
87     Continuous loading of chrome ore          Apr 1mW    yes         sIgning of concession agreemnt
with KRASMA; fInancing of
mdfications to conveyor
beIt (CCCE)
B8     Construction of 2 container terminals    end 18   Ye             finaneing of 2 PPM typ  cranes and
spreae   (se 89)
go     Purchase of 2 PPM or selotti cranes       end sW yefunds  *val  abilly; pving of
0 MAINTENANCE
40     Inventory of machinery on hand            end 1989   yes         technical assostnce
4i.    List of needed spare part                 end iWO   yoe          techalcal asistnce
42     Repalrs to fork-lifts                       id-1987   yes        MOST URGENT On condition external
funds for spare parts are made
oval table,
43     Rehabilitation of workshop                end 190f  ye           If funds available for reassembly
of hanp r and A.?
44     System of mnagemnt of stocks              Feb 1m7   Yes          finanein of otudies, mtril
(and computer)
45     System of supplies (procurement center)   Apr 1N7   yts          follow up on Nr. 44
48     Purchase of five S-ton to'kilfts          end 1908  yoe          fi"nancin
47     Manufacture of large paddles              19W6 (and
after)
46     Purchase of fIve 25 ton trailers          end 1907  y            f inancing
49     Rehabiltation of tractors                 end 1Wt?  yes          financing for Spare part
so     Construction of line-handling boat        end 1a80   yes         purchan  of 100 hp motor
PRmDUCTIVITY
51     ProfIt-sharing by longshoreon             end 1987              Contractual poliCy
62     Introduction of a third shift, on         May 1984              dne
as neded basis



MADAGASCAR - PORTS REHAILITATI0k PROJECT
SEPT ACTION PLAN - PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
iTEII             UN4IT           1/1/S6   1/1/Bt  1/1/66   1/1/89   1/1/90   1/l/9    1/1/92   1/1/95   1/1/94   1/1/95
Tehnical 
Employes          Nller            4200    31S60      no      $61      3440    837?          33ff    830   a m30      0 5;f
Containera:       TEU/gang/hour
-Fu II cont. ship                     4        6       1        10       10      1i         s       10      19       1
-sime tship                           4        6        a        8        8                 9        a       9        1 
Rice bags         Ton/shift/ship     1ff     140    10        2f       210      220'    229       220      220     229
Chrom  ore        Ton/day           7f0    710       209    20           f      2009    29ff    2000    20  223
Barrel*           Ton/shift/ship     70       s0      119    lO        ll      1ts      11i    l1       l1      1i
General cargo    Ton/shift/gang      26       86       79      7i        70       70       79       79      70       79
Borth Occupancy  U                   -7*  -  6S        So      sio                6S0      so       W                5C
Ratiq
waitg time to                        38      230       1O       1O       1O      1i        19       10       is      19
5Xtt co tim       x
Ti  Watin         Days/ship           2      1.6        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1
Mean port time:  Hours/ship
lose then    LOA                   196      199      1SO      120      120     120      120      120      120      129
-mers then ISO LOA                  142      1SO    l1         90       99       s9       96      90       90       96
Financial
Current ratio                       1.2      1.2      1.C      1.6      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.6     1.5      1.5
Recoivables Turover                 709    Sf        403      Bff      260    1i9        1S       159     159      1SO
Working ratio     1                 l1       96       S0       so       s0       76       75      75       7C      7i
Operating Ratio  X                  126      119       95       96       9 99              es      eS       eS       as
Return    fixd assets X                                 6        6        6        9        9       9        9        9
0X
D.btto oqsity    1                   42       as       es       09       SO       80       09      56       69       45                  t;



- 58 -
ANN*t 8.1
MADAGASCAR                                 Pag  1 of 8
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS - MID 1908 PRUCES
REHAULTATION AtC) ENHANCEMENT OP PORTS IVPRASIRUCTUB
PORT    LOCAL  TAX & FOREIGN TOTAL TOTAL
DUTY               EX.T.& 0.
-----MILLION FMG ----------
811    22%    47%   1991    79X
A.     qUAYS, SLIPWAYS AND TRESTLES
A.1       Repair* to quay Coste          MAHA         P4     69    129    272    212
A.2       Forry access ramp              MAHA         26     19     41      66     67
A.)       Motorized Barge accos rap   MORO            17     12     25    65       48
A.4       No  Quay So a long             VONE         of     68    146    262    223
A.5       Embankmnt Whind pier           VOHE         46      8     69    140    116
A.*       Repairs to access; enbnkment  TOLU          s      26      57    121     95
A.?       Rpire to quay                  TOU           4      8      6      13      9
A.6       Repirs to sheetpile quay       MAMA         1s     11      23     48     as
A.9      NW  Slipway                     MAMA         19     14     28      61     47
A.19      Repair8 to quay CS             TOMA         of     42     99    193 l15
A.11      Repairs to quay                STLO         46     82     66    145    118
A.12      Reptirs to quay                NOBE          7      5      12     25     20
SUBTOTAL qUAYS, ...                        441    815    898  1,449  1,14
B.     YARDS
6.1       20,009 m2 prop. and  paving   MAMA         168    111    192    490   847
8.2       60690 .2 prep. and paving      MORO         s9     22     47    100      78
H.8       4,900 .2 prop. and paving      tOLI         1      11     28      46    38
8.4       4,909 *2 prop. and paving      TOLA         16     11     28      46    38
8.6       Extension of crane yard        TOLA          7      6      12     24     19
8.o       #,NO m2 prep, and paving       MAMA         21    1i      32      67     S8
B.7       Loading platforms              MANA          4      8      7      16     12
B.8       56,9900 2 quay C pavments    TOMA          195     76    159   389    264
8.9       18,000 m2 quay 8 pavements    TOMA          so     26     66    116    9g
8.10      2,09f .2 prep. and paving      STLO         12      6      17     37    26
8.11      18,669 .2 yard repairs         ANTS         41     29     08    188    194
SUBTOTAL YARDS                             441    816 i   88  1,366  1,071
C.     WUILODVGS
C.2       Administration building        TOLI          2      0      8       8      a
C.8       Maintenance sheds L.S.         TOMA         61      9     89    120    120
SUBTOTAL BUILDINGS                          68      0     68    126    126
0.     UTILITIES
0.1       Lighting quays' area           TOLI         22     18      84     72     57
0.2       Electric distribution          TOLA          8      2       5     12      9
D03       Fence around port              TOLA          7      6      12     24     19
D.4       Lighting quay's area           MANA          4      a       7     16     12
0.6       Lighting  container park       TOMA         38     26      67    121     96
0.6       Drainage older area            TOMA         22     16     34      72     57
0.7       Water and eloctric distrib.   TOMA          64     52    161    264    231
0.8       Lighting, drainage, sewage    MORO           9      6     15      89     24
SUBTOTAL UTILITIES                         169    126    815    69    504
TOTAL INFRASTRUCtURE             1,184    758  1,791  3,691  2,68
m - - _ 



- 59 -
ANNEX 8.1
MAOAOASCAR                                  Pag  2 of 6
PORTS  ASITATION  POECT
OLTAILED PROJECT COSTS - MID 19  PRICES
MOOIFICATIu  AN   rwRyEMETS TO ;AQ0 HANDLONG
POIRT    LOCAL  TAX      OEI4N TOTAL  TOTAL
DMTY                EX.T.& 0.
-----ILLIGON _MQ_-----
A.     EqIuvmENT
A.1       Mobile  ra"  f  at S            MAIA         18      72    290    209    217
A.2    i  Two 25t chassis                 MAHA          2       a     14     22      16
A.3       OneP s  MP tretor               MAMA          2       3     11      16     13
A.4       OneofMPtractor                  MORO           2      8     11      16     18
A.$       Two 25t chassis                 MORO          2       6     14     22      16
A.6       Two St forklift                 MORO          5      14     S9     s8      44
A.?       Mobile crano 2t at go           VOHE         13      42    126    181    139
A.$       On. St forklift                 VOQE           3      6     20      29     23
A.9       Thre 25t chnssl                VONE          a       9     21      84     24
A.10      Four St forklifts               TOLa         11      27     76    1l6    68
A.11      Five 25t chassls                TO"           5      16     36     55      40
A.12'     Two mobile cranes 4t at o       TOLA          8      29     64    122      92
A.13      One St forklift                 MAMA          S       6     20     29      23
A.14      Two mobile creae. 3t at Sm   TOMA            36    146    399    580    435
A.1S      Reconstruction of conveyors   TOMA          114    121    820    653    438
A. 16     One 25t forkiIft                ANTS         14      J9    113    166    127
A.17      Two 25t chasses                 ANTS          2       6     14     22      16
A.1S      One soP tct.or                  ANTS          2       8     11     16      13
A.19      One St forklift                 NOSE          8       6     26     29      28
A.20      Oneof HP tractor                NOSE          2       8     11     16      13
A.21      Two 26t chessis                 NOSE          2       6     14     22      16
SUBTOTAL EQUDIPMENT                         262   567  1,576  2,894  1,827
S. FLOATING CRAFT
8.1       Four 160t barge                 MAMA         34      46    105    165   139
9.2       Two 60t landing craft           MORO         1S      32    106    161    126
8.3       One 76 H  line launch           VOHE         14      13     68     84      71
8.4       One 16O HP tug                  TOLI         11      17     62    109      92
8.5       Four Oft baree                  TOLA         84      16     97    162    136
3.6       Two Oft bersee                  MANA         23      16     34     72      57
8.7       One 160 HP tug                  NOSE         11      17     82    109      92
8.6       Thre 8ft bargeo                 NOSE         36      24     so    109      85
8.9       One Ot barge                    ANTS         12       8     17     37      28
SUBTOTAL FLOATING CRAFT                     169    189    630  1,08    819
C. SPARE PARTS AND MATERIALS
C.1       3,000 pallets                                37       5      0     42      37
C.2       Stoel plate and electrode.                    0      1i     38     63      38
C.3       Spars, tool., shop rehabilitation           131    709  1,936  2,866  2,067
and equipment replacemnt Toameasins_l/
C.4       Sparo parts and tools, other porto           21    189    426    630    441
SUBTOTAL SPARES A MATLS.                    189  1,966  2,894  3,591  2,583
TOTAL CARGO HANDLING    .30  1,764  4,609  6,098  6,229
NOTES:    1. To includo five St foeklifts, fl4o 25t chassis, and one 4x4 vehicle.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.1
MADAGASCAR                                Page a of 6
POM  RAITATION PROJECT
DETAILED POJECT COS"S - MID 106 PIRICES
__
ENANCMtS TO INTERNATIONL AD COASTAL SHPING
PORT    LOCAL TAX & FOREIGN TOTAL TOTAL
DUTY               EX.T.& D.
eM--MILLION fMG e ..
A . DREDGING
A.1       Bar   ounted buckt dredg    MAMA           42    126    857    626    899
End Ip lt botttoe bar
A.2       Suction pump on a barge and   TOLI         37     74    164    274    261
490 I.*. of flexible duet
A.8       Rehabilitation of existing    MAmA        Ili      52    10D    272    219
Hydroland type dredge
SUBTOTAL DREDGING                        19    262    on  1,571    619
B. NAVIGATION AIDS
5.1       Combined navigation side/                         26    862    484    a96
hydrographic surveys lounch
3.2       Supply of buoys, reconstruc-              26B    216    C6  1,076    662
tion of lighthouse, rpair
of lights, spores, shops and
rediocaumunIcation
SUBTOTAL NAVIGATION AIDS                  2C2    262  1,666  1,612  1,280
C. SPARE PARTS FOR THE COASTAL SHIPPIN SECTOR
C.1       Spar perts for Mto coastal                 68    169    544    76C      6
shipping sctor                          -     ---
TOTAL ENHANCEMENTS TO SHIPPING             64    698  2,142  $,8$8  2,646
-----



- 61 -
ANNEX 8.1
Page 4 of 6 
MADAGASCAR
'PORTS REIHAIUTATION PROJECT
OETAILED PROJECT COSTS - MID 19O  PRICES
INSTIIUTIONAL DEVELOPMN  AND REFORM
MAN      LOCAL TAX  FOREIGN TOTAL TOTAL
MONTH            DUTY               EX.T.& 0.
A. TECNICAL SUPPORT
A.1      Ministry  odvisor                 6s      81      9   862   891   891
A.2      Accounting                        24       11     0   186   147   147
A.$      Administration                    10       4      0    5?    61    01
A.4      Dredging                          12       S      6     es    78    78
A.S      Maintenances Tamatavo             40       18     0   227   245   245
Other ports         20        9      0   118   128   123
A.6      Navgatlon aide                    12       5      O    66    78    78
A.7      Cargo handling: Tamatave          40       18     0   227   246   245
Other port       20        9      0    118   12$   128
A.8      Hydrography                       12       6      9    66    78    78
A.9      Misce llneoua aesietnc.           24      11      0    186   147   147
SUBTOTAL TECONICAL SUPORT       274      126     0  1,57S  1,791  1,791
S. TRAININ
0.1      Training specialist               24      14      9    186O   I1    Is
8.2      Traning materials                -         16    10   16    16    17
s.8      Scholarships                     -                     454   464   464
B.4      Training of 99 staff             -       222    47   791   971   924
SUBTOTAL TRAININ                         262    68  1,449  1,704  1,701
TOTAL NST. DEV. AND REFORM               878    683  ,024  8,406  8,402
I                                    aaa         inu    ame



- 62 -
ANO4EX 3.1
eeee
MDA""                                   Pap t of G
PORTS RE3ABIUTATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATE - iD6 186 PRICES
LOCAL TAX A FOREIGN TOTAL TOTAL
DUTY               EX TI
-- ------ ILLION FM0          e
S. PORTS INFRAS7RUCTURE
A.    QUAYS, SLKPWAYS AND TRSES                             441    315    09   1,449  1,134
S.    YARDS                                                 441    315    63   1,866  1,571
C.    BUILDNGS                                               68      a     63    120    120
0.    UTILITIES                                             139    126    316   688    W64
SUBTOTAL PORTS INFRAST  CTURE                      1,134    750  1m1  3,591  2,B3
1I. CARGO HANDLING
A.    EqJIPWEI                                              252    507  1,575  2,894  1,627
B. FLOATIN  CRAFT                                           100    139    630  1,55      B10
C.  PARE PARTS AND  MATEtIALS                              19  1,m  2,394  3,591  2,663
SUBTOTAL CARG  HANDLING                              6U   1,764  4,999  0,993  5,229
IlI. SHIPPIN
A. DREDGIM                                                 1t9    262    63   1,571    819
B. NAVIGATION AIDS                                          252    252  1,553  1,612  1,269
C. SPARE PARTS FOR COASTAL SHIPPIMG                          68    160    6"      750    667
SUBTOTAL SHIPPING                                    604    093  2,142  3,339  2,646
IV. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. TECHNICAL SUPPORT                                        126      6  1,S76  1,701  1,761
B. TRAINING                                                 252     63  1,449  1,764  1,701
SUBTOTAL INSTITUThTNAL DrVELOPMENT                   873     68  3,024  3,405  3,402
V. ENGINEERING, BID DOCUMENTS ANM SUPERVISION                      132     25  1,810  1,406  1,443
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                               2,778  3,301 12,776 18,865  15,565
=~ wnausas rn= zuau 
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                                        278   U30  1,278  1,38I   1,656
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                           066    998  3,951  5,855  4,86?
ssa    -  _        n
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                3,912  4,624 13,005  28,642 21,010



C'                            I
- 63 -
ANMN 8.1
MADA"SCAR                         Pae. 6 qt 6
PORTS RAtUTATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATE - MID lo6 PRICES
LOCAL TAX A FOREIGN TOTAL TOTAL
cm                EX TAD
- nasLLION FMG ------ -
I. PORTS tNVRASTRUCTURE
A.    qUAYS, SLIPWAYS AND TRESTUS                    621   441   977 2,640  1,698
B.    YARDS                                          621   441   988  1,981  1,609
C.    BUILDINGS                                       89      0    so   177   178
D.    UTILITIES                                      2"    176   444   867   710
SUBTOTAL PORTS INRASTRUCTURE '               1,9   1,O96  2,897 6,065  8,9
zx. CAOO HANDLING
A.    EUIPUENT                                       8U5   794 2,220 8,870 2,574
B. FLOATING CRAFT                                    266   26    888  1,419 1,154
C. SPARE PARTS AND MATERIALS                         266  1,412 8,874  5,656  8,04
SUBTOTAL CARGO HANDLNG                         887  2,471 6,461  9,48  7,88
III. SHIPPING
A. DREDGING                                          266   858   688  1,566  1,164
S. NAVIGTtON AIDS                                    866   85$  1,421  2,128  1,775
C. SPARE PARTS FOR COASTAL SHIPPING                   69   28    710  1,084    799
SUBTOTAL SHIPfIN                               710   971  3,019 4,7a  8,76
IV. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. TECHNICAL SUPPORT                                 177      0 2,220  2,394 2,397
B. TRAINING                                          855    88 2,942 2,488  2,897
SUBTOTAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT             682    88 4,262  4,977 4,794
V. ENGINEERING, BID DOCUMENTS AND SUPERVISION               186    85  1,646  2,086  2,088
TOTAL COSTS (IncludTn contTng.ncleu)         8,912 4,624 10,085 26,642 21,918
*Small discrepancies are due to riunding of figures.



- 64 -
Annex 3.2
page 1 of 11
MADAGASCAR
PORTS RF.RAMILITATInN PROJECT
A. Training Program: MTRT
1.        This Annex deals with project training arrangements for
the ports MTRT supervises, which are listed in Annex 2.4.
2.        This Annex is comprised of the following sections:
General considerations concerning the organizational
structure and personnel of the headquarters departments
responsible for managing the secondary ports.
-  Personnel situation of the iey divisions responsible for
managing the secondary ports.
- Situation of the provincial departments responsible for
managing the secondary port*.
- General situation of the lighterage companies and assessment
of, their training needs.
- Training needs of the headquarters departments and the
secondary ports.
- Training resources



- 65 -
Annex 3,2
.page 2. of '11
General considerations concerning the organizational structure and Personnel
of the headQuarters deoartments resoonsible for managing the secondary ports
3.        In accordance with a recent decision by the Malagasy authorities,
the Seaways Department (Service des Voies Maritimes) and the Ports Department
(Service des Ports) have been radically reorganized. Henceforth the Seaways
Department will comprise the following divisions: Lighthouses and Beacons,
Hydrography, Dredging, Infrastructure, and Administrative and Financial
Affairs. The divisions of the Ports Department will be: Port Operations,
Tariffs and Statistics, Port Equipment, Port Administration, and Financial
Affairs.
4.        Decentralization of headquarters authority has become a reality with
the creation of a Department at the level of each Province (Toamasina,
Antsiranana, Mahajanga and Toliary). Each department is responsible for
coordinating activities in its province in all three aveas: Seaways, Ports
Management, and Merchant Marine. As will be mentioned later on, this new
structure meets a real need for efficiency in management but has not been
installed without numerous difficulties, both human and physical.
S.        The new departments are in process of organization.  They still need
time to define their relationships with other the other headquarters and
province departments and also to draw up distributions and definitions of
tasks for the staff of their component divisions and sections. The directors
have good university training and substantial field experience (above 15 years
service). However, most of the section chiefs have only a baccalaureat (high
school) education and have difficulty in conducting technical studies or in
efficiently performing the management tasks of a maritime administration
(tariff studies, statistics processing, spare parts inventory forecasting,
study of labor and service contracts, and so on). Personnel age structures
are, overall, still good and do not pose succession problems for the moment.
6.        The staff have civil service status.  Basically, account is taken of
the diplomas they hold, not of the posts they actually occupy. To change
grade, a staff member must in principle obtain a diploma giving access to the
higher grade. A disadvantage of this system of grading by diploma level is
that it fails to take account of skill levels acquired through basic,
refresher and advanced professional training. That is a fundamental obstacle
to the training efforts recommended by the Project. Moreover, the salary
system compares very untavorably to that of the lighterage companies. For
example, a division chief has almonthly salary in the range FMG 74-107,000,
whereas a mechanical workshop cAief of a lighterage company can earn FMG
110,000 a month -- just over twice as much as a mechanic in a technical
department of the Administration at the end of his career.



-*66                     Annex 3.2
page,3 of 11
Personnel situation of the key diviiions resgonsible for managing the
7.        The personnel situations of the key divisions of the Seaways and the
Ports Departments have been studied to define their training needs precisely.
These divisions are: Lighthouses and Beacons, Hydrography, Dredging,
Infrastructure, Port Operations, Tariffs and Statistics, Port Equipment, and
Port Administration.
-    The Lighthouses and beacons Division comprises S specialists with
secondary-level education diplomas. Two of them have received
12 months of additional training in a technical training center at
St.-Nasaire. Taking into account the country's corps of 44
lighthouse masters and keepers, the Division has a not
inconsiderable manpower potential. According to Crown -- a firm of
consultants commissioned to do a study of M1adagascar's lighthouses
and beacons -- many of these staff members are adequately qualified
to perform maintenance of the existing equipment. All that is
needed is to ensure an adequate supply of spare parts and to
motivate the personnel through a more appropriate bonus system.
However, they will need refresher training in electricity and
maintenance engineering.. As regards the new type of equipment to be
furnished under the Project (21 solar energy lights and 14 solar
energy buoys), Crown proposes to train 2 engineers and 8 technicians
in this specialized field. The training program would be drawn up
by the supplier, in agreement with the technical departments
concerned. It would also be necessary, in the province departments,
to build or renovate stores and maintenance workshops and to provide
basic or refresher training for the mechanics and storekeepers who
are to operate them. The number of mechanics to be given basic or
refresiier training would total 12 (3 for each province).
The Hydrography Division still lacks a division chief. At the
moment it comprises 3 secondary-level technicians. Two of them have
taken a 12-month course at the School of Hydrography in Brest. The
third is specialized in shipping maneuvers. They are all former
staff members of the Cartography Division. The Division is awaiting
the arrival, expected soon, of a French cooperation expert, a highly
qualified engineer. He will assist the Division to draw up a
program of activities for the next few years and to define the
physical and human resources required to carry it out. The ordering
of a 300-hp hydrography motor boat, provided for under the Project,
will affect the training program, which will take into account the
type of equipment imported. It is planned to assign the motor-boat
to the west coast and to equip it with radiolocation and sounding
gear. In the initial stage (12-18 months), it would be desirable
that, the supplier, in addition to ensuring the installation, entry
into service and operation of Chis new equipment, also concern
himself with training of the Malagasy team. In the second phase,
the team will take over entire responsibility, with the supplier
providing support, targeted to specific problems, every b months for
A period of 2 years.



- 67 -
Annex 3.2
page 4 of 11
The Dreduing Division Is the one most short of personnel. rt does
*pt yet have a division chief. Its staff is limited to a Studies
'Section chief with e technical secondary school education. This
Division, too, will receive technical support from the French
cooperation expert mentioned above. The dredging program provided
for in the Project will in fact be carried out by private
companies. It would nevertheless be desirable to include a training
component in the dredging contracts concluded with these companies.
That would allow the Malagasy personnel to familiarize thenselves
with the technique under real working conditions. At the management
level, the Division needs to be strengthened by 2 public works
engineers, who will receive 12 months supplemental specialist
training abroad in dredging.
The tnfrastructure Division comprises a Division Chief (engineer), a
technician who doubles as chief of the New Works 3anagement and
Development Section and chief of the Maintenance Section, 3
technicians and a 6-man maintenance squad (masons, carpenters,
etc.). While the Division is adequately staffed to prepare the
technical documentation for maintdnance work of secondary importance
and to supervise and monitor its execution, it is not totally
equipped to perform the technical studies for major port works.
This situation is not critic*l, since preparation of the
documentation for major works will be entrusted to private
consultants. rn the future, however, it will be important to
strengthen the Division's technical capacity so that it can monitor,
supervise and control the consultants' work.
The Port Operations Division has a staff of three. The Division
Chief holds a university diploma and has in addition received 12
months training in Antwerp. However, it is absolutely necessary
that the Division be strengthened by the addition of a contracting
specialist. This need is all the more urgent in that the existing
contracts have not been reviewed for a very long time, they are no
longer suited to the current situation, and many of them have
expired.
The Tariffs and Statistics Division consists of a Division chief
with a higher-level diploma in management, a Statistics Section
chief with a secondary education, and two secretaries. None of
these people have received statistics training.
The Port Equipment Division has a staff of 15. The Division Chief
is an engineer. The chief of the Lighterage Equipment section is a
former harbormaster and a former director of a private lighterage
company. He appears to have appropriate experience. However, the
chief of the Service Equipment Section appears to have very little
experience in that field. Both appear to need training in
contracting procedures since, while it is planned to have
consultants draw up the technical specifications for the equipment
to be purcnased under the Project, neither really has any training
in the arganization oe public contracts.



-68-
Annex 3.2
page-5 of I1
The Port Administration Division is responsible for managing the
,port personnel covered by the appended budget. Only the Division
Clief is a university graduate. None of the Division's IS staff has
been trained in personnel management.
Situation of the 2roviAcial departments
8.        At the province level, the now structures are still in the embryonic
stage, whereas the heavy work will have to be done there: compilation of
traffic statistics, billing, managemeit and operation of the ports, safety
control, loading control, mzintenance of lighthouses, beacons, equipment and
port infrastructure, and so on. rt is noteworthy that a number of contracts
with concession- or license-holders have expired. These need to be revised to
spell out the rights and obligations of each party and prescribe a formula
and/or provisions for periodical adjustment of tariffs in light of economic
indicators and tonnages actuaily handled. The presence of an ever growing
number of permit-holders also poies an urgent problem.
9.        Moreover, a number of concepts are very imprecisely defined and vary
from one province to another: definition of tasks within each department,
manner of performance of those tasks, work procedures tailored to specific
cases. and limits of legal competence vis-a-vis concession-holders. rt would
be helpful if training and coordination seminars could be organized, with the
assistance of a Le Havre expert, during the second project preparation
financing period, The purposes of these seminars would be (M) to define the
functions ann responsibilities of the province department, its organization
and its relations with the headquarters departments; (ii) to identify the most
urgent problems common to the provincp departments, and (iii) to work out
solutions to the problems identified or recommendations for more detailed
studies.
10.       The provincial port administrations suffer from a very serious
shortage of human and physical resources. By way of example, at Antsiranana,
apart from the department chief and the harbormaster, all the staff (10) are
of the execution grade; none has received accounting training. Means of
communication with the lighthouse facilities are lacking -- the department is
not informed of a lighthouse breakdown until a week after it has happened.
Supply of these stations with gasoline or gas-oil is very difficult, for lack
of meana of transportation from depot to quay. Moreover, supervision of the
concession-holders' work is little more than symbolic. rhe traffic statistics
are based essentially on these companies' own statements.
General situation of the lighterage companies and assessment
of their training needs
11.       Generally speaking, the performance of the lighterage companies is
good -  particularly that of the Compagnie Malgache de Manutention (CDt).
Tonnage loaded and unloaded at Mahajanga totaled 73,710 tons in 1985, against
96,031 tons in 1984; that handled by the Company at Antsiranana totaled 84,653
tons in 1985, against 77,215 tons in 1984. The CODM's potential has not been
fully exploited because traffic throughout the country has been falling
sharpLy for a number of years for economic reasons.   MDM's personnel at
Mahajanga totals 249, including 5 mechanics and 3 mechanic's mates responsibe



- 69 -
Annex 3.2
page 6 of 11
for thb mechanical maintenance repair workshop. Its Antairanana staff totals
210, inclt4ing 6 mechanics. The equipment is well maintained and the workshop
well organised.  The personnel are well qualified to maintain and repair the
Company's equipment properly, much of which is fairly old and has been in
department for about 20 years. There are no major imediate training needs,
except for training in hydraulic Sear and refresher training for crane
operators. With respect to management triining, CMDM officials have expressed
the wish to participate in visits to ports abroad to observe the organization
and also the evolution of handling e4uipmant.  The CMDM moreover spent FMC 85
million in 1985 on the purchase of spare parts and some new equipment for its
.ahajanga branch.
Trainins needs of the headquarters departments and of the secondary ports
12.       A preliminary study has been done of the headquarters and provincial
department structures to identify the most urgent training needs for the next
four years. This program will comprise local training of: 3 provincial
department chiefs, 11 aeputy harbormasters (I for each secondary ocean-going
shipping port and each principal coastal shipping port), 20 bookkeepers (for
the headquarters and province departments), 30 general maintenance mechanics,
30 diesel and gasoline engine mechanics, 20 electricians and refrigeration
mechanics, 8 lighthouse masters and 50 lighthouse keepers. This program does
not include training of hydrographers; this will be defined in detail later,
4n light of the type of equipment (radiolocation, echo-sounding, hydrographic
data processing) that comes with the hydrographic motor-boat to be supplied
under the Project.
3.        Apart from this, the emphasis would be on seminars on work
organization and management, communication techniques, statistics, planning,
tariff-setting, contracting procedures, and human resource forward planning.
These seminars would be organized for headquarters and province department
management staffs by Local training institutions, such as CFC/Antsirabc,
CFCJTana and IMATEP, with the assistance of the Project consultants.
14.       Finally, provision would be included for training fellowships
abroad, as follows: (i) seven observation fellowships in African and European
ports for headquarters and province department chiefs; (ii) five fellowships
for instructors (I in the organization and planning of in-house training, I in
electrical machinery, I in automated equipment, 1 in hydropneumatics, and I in
data processing); (iii) two in hydrography, and (iv) two in dredging. The
duration of the observation courses would be 6 weeks. The other fellowships
could vary from 6 to 9 months. Details of training in radio-navigation and
hydrographic data processing would be firmedi up later by the equipment
supplier,
Training organization and resources
15.       A DAC.IMM official will have to be appointed as training
coordinator. He will be the assistant to the Human Resources Officer. His
functions will be (i) to identify the qualitative and quantitative training
needs; (ii) to update the training plan and draw tip a timetable of training
activities; (iii) to draw up the training programs, with the assistance oe :;e
training centers and proressional groups: (iv) to rnoni:or -rnd superv:se cae



- 70 -
Annex 3.2
page 8 of 11
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
B, Training Program: SEPT
Backtround
1.       In January 1986, SEPT had a staff of 4200.  The educational level
of the personnel is very low: less than 2% have the Baccalaureat (high
school diploma) or equivalent. The age distribution is good. From now
until 1991, those who will be 55 years old number 398. If dockers are not
included, 66% of employees are less than 50 years of age.
2.       SEPT is facing several difficult problems which are common to most
public enterprises in Madagascar, namely: (i) too many unproductive
employees, (ii) too few skilled personnel for an enterprise that is seeking
to modernize its equipment and introduce new operating techniques, and
(iii) a state of organizational desarray that makes adaptation to the
efficiency standards targeted by new management problematic.
Staffing situation
3.       In January 1986, the Operations Division had the largest staff,
2360 in number, of which 1300 are dockers. According to port operations
specialists, it is advisable to maintain the number of dockers in the range
from 1000 to 1100. Discipline needs to bh strengthened, in particular with
regard to work quality and employee attendance. It is important to note
that some measures of control have already been introduced by the new
Management and as a consequence, overtime has fallen by 15% to 20%.
4        A unit was also created by the new Director General to study how
to reduce staff, whose number has increased by about 1000 since 1982.
Several solutions are being studied s (i) lowering the retirement age to
55: this would reduce the total number of staff by 389; if adopted, this
solution would cost SEPT 745 million FMG for compensation payments to
early retirees, but SEPT would save about 433 million FMg on overtime,
allowances and benefits; (ii) appeal to voluntary termination in return for
compensation payment equivalent to 12-18 months' salary; (iii) systematic
use of disciplinary measures against undisciplined staff (theft, repeated
absence without permission ...); (4v) reduction of staff on the basis of
SEPT's real needs.
5.       The rehabilitation plan for SEPT could not reasonably succeed
without accompagnying measures to reduce the size of its staff; but in the
social and economic context of Tamatave, the problem has become very
delicate. Moreover, to establish a personnel reduction plan, several
preparatory measures would be necessary :(i) raising staff awareness of
necessary measures for increasing productivity, (ii) inventorying of SEPT



Annex 3.2
page 7 of 11
training, and (v) to evaluate the training activities.  It would also be
desirable ,. set up aTraining Coordination Comittee, composed of the
department chiefs, the luman Resources Officer and the Training Coordinator,
to express opinions on the training plans and programs and on the quality of
the training imparted, particularly the match between training and job.
16.       As regards training resources, maximum advantage should be taken of
the training capacity of the centers in Madagascar itself. rn particular, the
National. Maritime Instruction Institute (Institut National des Enseignements
Maritimes -- INEM) will be used to train harbormasters and deputies, general
mechanics, engine mechanics, electricians and refrigeration technicians. To
that end, financing will be provided under the Project to strengthen the
teaching equipment of the electrical machinery testing laboratory, the
.%ca-Auto workshop, the automated equipment laboratory and the hydropneumatic
workshop. In addition, a pilot data, processing program for tahajanga traffic
statistics (vessel type and tonnage, nature and tonnage of goods loaded and
unloaded) will be installed at INE! (at very little cost, since IYE?M already
possesses a data processing unit). The lighthouses and beacons training
center at Antsiranana will be reopened under a new system. It will be
transferred to the lighthouse maintenance and repair workshop, to facilitate
organization of the practical work and also to reduce the capital cost. The
basic electronics training for lighthouse masters could be given at Mahajanga
at INEM, while the specific training will be organized at Antsiranana.



-.72 -
Annex 3.2
page 9 of 11
human resources with analysis of its current labor force in terms of
number, qualifications, and distribution by units, (iii) collecting
information on the short and medium-term needs expressed by divisions and
units; (iv) identifying those sectors or specialities where overstaffing
exists.
Personnel manaRement
6.       SEPT has for the moment 7 categories of personnel statutes.  Two
categories are directly governed by SEPT personnel policies; they include
1912 employees, administered under a labor-management agreement (Convention
Collective) signed in 1969, and 533 on fixed-term contracts, that are
systematically renewed without any consideration of Individual performance.
The five others include staff detached from other agencies. The system of
personnel management is srill embryonic. There is no clear job
classification. Data on personnel situations, which are often incomplete,
have hampered Management decisions in personnel matters. Recruitment,
promotion, and assignment procedures have yet to be worked out. In
addition, without professional specifications and job descriptions, the
links between staff assignments and skills are poorly defined.  The new
Management has put an end to a number of bad practices that SEPT inherited
from past administrations: (i) laxity in checking overtime and staff
attendance, (ii) automatic promotion to positions of responsibility for
union leaders at the end of their assignments on the sole basis of their
unions activities, (iii) counting regular night shift as overtime.
Salary  tructure
7.       SEPT staff are, in general, reasonably well paid compared with
other public sector employees in Madagascar. However, dockers' wages are
relatively low, in spite of their pqor working conditions. It may be noted
that monetary compensation accounts for an average f 58% of total
compensation; 42% accounts for social benefits, allowances and the
thirteenth month salary. As the thirteenth month salary has become an
entitlement and there is laxity in checking overtime, the harmful
consequences of this situation are quite obvious. In several cases, there
are reports of lack of motivation, a relaxation in discipline and careless
handling of production equipment, high rate of absenteism. Management is
fully aware of this situation, butS EPT has limited leverage in terms of
wage policy. Motivation for high productivity cannot be matched by
monetary increases as long as the'social benefits and non work-related
allowances constitute the bulk of total pay.
Improvement In personnel manage_ent
8.       Under the new organization of SEPT, the structure of the Direction
of Personnel is adequate and includes 4 divisions: Personnel Management,
Training, Human Resources Development and Social Affairs.
Recommendations. The new Direction of Personnel should
include among its tasks: (i) establishment and updating of
job descriptions; (ii) establisment and updating of
individual records (human resources inventory); (iii)



73                  Annex 3.2
page 10 of 11
collection of information on the short- and medium-term
staff needs as expressed by various divisions and services;
(iv) analysis of these needs in relation to the number and
qualifieqtions of existing staff in each specialized area;
(v) preparation of a personnel forecasting plan with the
assistance of a consultant provided under the proposed
project; (vi) the formulation of personnel management
procedures that define the conditions for selection,
recruitment, promotion and appointment.
Trainiks
9.       The organizat:',n of the Training Division is still embryonic.  Its
staff is limited to two employees. Although both seem dynamic and
cooperative, neither has any real experience in vocational training. This
is a major handicap for SEPT since it needs experienced staff who can be
productive immediately.
Recommendations. A training program should be prepared for
the staff of the Training Division. This could comprise of:
(i) a visit to nat4onal training centers in Madagascar
(INPF, CFC/Ansirabe' CFC/Tananarivo), to study their
organization and to look into any possibilities for future
cooperation in implementing SEPT training plan; (ii) in-
house training that could be handled by the technical
assistants of the proposed Project; and (iii) additional
overseas training over a three to six-month period in
organization, in-service training methodology, and the
planning and evaluation of training.
The role and function of the Training Unit should be defined
and understood by all personnel, and in particular by
supervisory staff and consultants. The approach would be for
training to be provided to staff by a specialized unit and
also as part of theit daily jobs. Based on this conception,
sipervisory staff and consultants should be prepared for
their role as trainers. The function of the Training Unit
would be : (i) to identify training needs, both qualitative
and quantitative, in accordance with the needs of each unit
and SEPT personnel development plan; (ii) to participate in
the drafting of job descriptions; (iii) to propose a
training program and a schedule of training activities; (iv)
to draw up the training programs with the participation of
professional associations or training centers, and to
determine the material, human, and financial means required
to implement these programs; (v) to propose suitable
measures to associate supervisory staff closely with
training activities; (vi) to provide for monitoring and
control of training; (vii) to evaluate training actions;
(viii) to assist the,Himan Resources Division in
establishing the qualifications required for each
occupational category and setting up carreer planning for
personnel.                  I



- 74'-
Annex 3.2
page 11 of 11
1987-90 Training Plan
10.      The detailed training plan will be developed by a consultant
financed under PPF2, tbdsed on the analysis of existing personnel preparAd
by SEPT. The general objective of the training plan is: (a) to improve the
competencies of staff who can benefit from further training; (b) to train
new staff to either replace Shose who will retire or increase the staffing
level in accordance with SEPT's development plan for the concerned period;
and (c) to improve the management and organization skills of managers and
supervisors.
11.      This plan will involve the training of about 350 staff members in
several technical areas: general mechanics, auto-mechanics, diesel engines,
radio equipment, electronics, electromechanics, electrical machines, heavy
equipment maintenance and operation, hydropneumatics, accounting, general
management, inventory control, training and personnel management, etc. In
addition, overseas training will be proposed for 30 senior staff in
management and technical areas for which group training of one or two
people would no longer be economical.
Recomendation. Heads of divisions and services should work-
closely with the Direction of Personnel, to identify their
own skills, to evaluate their staff and to anticipate
upcoming retirements, promotions and reassignments. The
quality of the training plan will depend essentially on
their contribution. To this end, seminars to raise
awareness and introduce personnel management and planning
concepts should be organized with the assistance of
specialists from local firms and the from consultant in
training planning and organization.
With a view to increasing the Training Division's
effectiveness, SEPT should encourage its best staff to
participate as part-time instructors through an appropriate
system of incentives.
November 1986



- 75 -
Annex 3.3
page 1 of 1
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
D_WU  SaWME
1986   1987   1988   1989  1990   1991   1992   1993
1 21314 1121 _46 112 314 1 21 4  1121 4  1121314 1 2 3 4 1 234
mmr~r  frPMSTWJCf                    I
A.  Iretio  of  ,erl, speifti_a-
tiou andbid dooumatts
B. Mvertisirg, receivigc bids, eI a_i_
and awid
C. Q,nstrution
II.CA O HAMG BUIEP
A. Preperatimn of spafiainsad
bid dOAAuattS
B. Adverisirg, receivirW bids,
ealuation and samad                           ---
c. Ioliwey, instullation or comnnssiIm
of equiipmet
D. tolvery and cowIssion of floatng_
craft
E. Deivery of spare parts and mterials   |
IIt.SHEPPINQ
A. Drsi   apupme  parts & mterials
Ao.l Prepwration of specifications and
bid   s 0Oxits
A.2 A   rtisii, receivirg                                                                     1
evaluatimn and siarda
.k3 Delivery, installati  or o__md                                  __ion
B. Navigtion aids
B.1 Pblration of     ccation  d
bid &oWnmnts
3.2 Advrtislg, receiving bids,
evabdatimn  ad a-mrd
B.3 Delivery and cud.siotn of
oarapradc airve lamch
3.4 Dalivery, IZutallation and con-
truction of navgation aids, shop,
C~~~ -MttW at                       1-         --         ---- -I I I I I  - -__1
A. Teu m Of nfersne for 96pport
and training
B. Invite mWibusso, alalye, mard
June 1986



-76-
Annex 3.4
page 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
PORTS RF.HAIT.ITATION PRnO.FCT
Other ports performance indicators
Dry carso tons varshi. Per day
tort                          1U1986                1990      1992
Antacraaan          Intl.     2S0        300        350       400
Cabot.
tohr                Cabot.-   170        200        250       300
Manakara            Cabot.    160        200        240        260
Tolagnaro           Intl.      300       350        380       400
Cabot.    200        240       260        280
Toliary             Intl.     270        300        350       400
Cabot.    170        200       230        260
Morondava           Cabot.    90         120        140       160
Mahajanga           Intl.     210        240        270       300
cWt.    200          230       260        280
Nosy Be             Intl.     160        200        250       300
Cabot*    100        130       160        200
St. Louis           Intl.     450        450        450       500
Cabot.    170        170       170        190
June 1986



- 77 -
Annex 4.1
PaM 1 of 1
Kg&GASCAR
PORTS RERABILITATION PROJECT
Forecast of Port Traffic 1990 - 1995
(000) tons
1984                   1990                   1995
Actual                Forecast               Forecast
Dry Cargo  Oil         Dry  Carao   Oil        Dry Carao   Oil
Antsiranana        74.0     19.4         132.4       36.8        147.1      41.1
Vohemar            22.1      5.4          25.7        8.0         27.9       9.0
Antalahal/          3.4      --            4.3        --           5.2       --
Maroantsetral/      5.5      0.6           5.3        1.1          5.8       1.1
Tosmasinas
International   489.6    248.0          450.0 }   450.0         483.2 1  600.0
Cabotage         107.3     76.9         102.9 1                 115.9 }
Manakara           52.7     12.3          57.2       20.0         62.6      25.9
Mananjaryl/        11.7      1.7          13.6        4.0         14.6       4.5
Tolagnaro          26.0      6.5          33.9       9.0          44.5      10.1
Nosy Be           120.6    116.3 }        34.7      23.0          37.2      26.2
Port St. Louis                   }        40.8       9.0          53.4      10.1
Mahajanga         148.5     49.4         184.6      61.6         191.9      73.2
Morondava          29.1      5.8         126.0       10.0         31.0      10.0
Toliara            51.9     15.0         *69.6       14.5         65.5      16.3
Morombel/           8.8      1.6           9.8        2.5         14.6      2.9
Total:        1151.2    558.9         1210.8     649.5        1300.4    830.4
Source: Consultants, MTRT
May 1986
1/ Not a project port.



- 78 -
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ship Loading/Unloading Rates
Ship Cost       Loading/Unloading Rates          Ton/Day        Ship Days
FHG/DaU     Actual 1985 Without Prolect    With Project    Saved 1990
Mahajl Ma
Deepsea         3.9                         213                293                 78
Coasters        1.7          180            180                220                121
Morondava         1.65          53             90                 160               126
Toliara
Deepsea         3.9                         270                400                 33
Coasters        1.56         233            170                260                 53
Tolagnaro
Deepsea         3.9                         300                400                 19
Coasters        1.56         153            200                275                 16
Vohemar
Coasters        1.38         133            170                300 }              168
Petroleum       1.38                        260                260 }
Toamasina
Deepsea         3.9          450(1984/85)  400                 500                367
Coasters        1.7          137-143        140                200                316
Nosy Be
Deepsea         3.9                         160                300                 41
Coasters        1.4           99            100                200                 46
Antsiranana
Deepsea         3.9          184            250                350                 43
St. Louis
Deepsea         3.9                         450                500                  9
Coasters        1.4          155            171                190                 11
Manakara          1.56         258            160                260                102
Shipdayst 590 deepsea + 959 coasters - 1549 days
Source: Consultants, mission estimates
May 1986



I - 79 -
MDAOAGSCAS                                              Annex 4.3
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT                                     page 1 of 1
Suws.y of coo   and boneft.e
Year     Neveid. Mahajanga Morondava Toilers Tolagnaro Voher To_*lna Nosy-be St.Lou.s Anteirenana Manakers Total
COSTS:  FU     1 millions
1987      127      164                                   268      701                                           1288
19a8      496      8a3       162      178        S       440      206                                           2471
19S9      651      sF.        9       110       175      220     1gb                                    205     2974
1990      714       87       178      296       138              1204                          Is$       34     2819.
1991      888       ?8        61      151              1us 8                s82                59       860     2862
1992      522                                                     8S5                23B      230        47     1691
BENEFITS: FUG maillions
1988        0                                                                                                      0
1989      336      240                                   241                                                     8l8
1990      670      491       209      212        97      232      681                                    80     2852
1991      870      494       216      218       102      264     1722                                   162     3833
1992      679      422       224      199        90      218     1722       202       52       162      185     4206
1993      870      426       232      201        96     8904     1691       207       s6       162      156     4188
1994      870      428       240      202       102      382     1691       212       so       181      158     4248
19,       870      482       246      204       106      883     1691       216       s6       170      16l     4316
1         670      452       248      24        106      363     1691       224       W6      170       le     4321
1997      679      482       246      204       109      363     1091       280       s6       170      181     4327
1998      670      432       246      204       106      888     1891       289       s6       170      6s      4234
199       670      299       246      204       108      188     1691       230       SO       170        o     3?37
RATE OF
RETURN: X      28        22       41        29       26       26        82       53        19       88       26        29
Source: Consultants, Mission estimates
May 1988



- 80 -
MADAGASCAR                         Annex 4.4
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of economic benefit calculations
WITHOUT PROJECT       WITH PROJECT             BENEFITS
ANTSIRANANA                                                        SHIPDAYS Cost/day SAVINGS
Handling rates                                                     SAVED    FMG       FMG/year
Deepsea vessels               250 tons/day       350 tons/day           millions millions
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990     37400 tons         149.6 days         106.8 days          42.8       3.9    166.9
1995     46600 tons         186.4 days         133.1 days          53.3       3.9    207.9
MANAKARA
Handling rates
Coasters                      160 tons/day       260 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990     42500 tons         265.6 days         163.5 days         102.1      1.56    159.3
1995     46300 tons         289.4 days         178.1 days         111.3      1.56    173.6
MAHAJANGA
Handling rates
Deepsea vessels               213 tons/day       293 tons/day
Large coasters                213 tons/day       293 tons/day
Small coasters                180 tons/day       220 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990               tons
Deepsea vessels   61000    286.4 days          208.2 days          78.2       3.9      305
Large coasters    75000    352.1 days            256 days          96.1       1.7    163.4
Small coasters    24600    136.7 days          111.8 days          24.9       0.9     22.4
490.8
1995               tons
Deepsea vessels   61000    286.4 days   ,    208.2 days            78.2       3.9      305
Large coasters    82400    386.8 days          281.2 days         105.6       1.7    179.5
Small coasters    24600    136.7 days          111.8 days          24.9       0.9     22.4
506.9
MORONDAVA
Handling rates
Coasters                       90 tons/day       160 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990     26000 tons         288.9 days         162.5 days         126.4     1.65    208.6
1995     31000 tons         344.4 days         193.8 days         150.6     1.65    248.5



- 81 -
WITHOUT PROJECT   WITH PROJECT                  BENEFITS
NOSY-BE                                                             SHIPDAYS Cost/day SAVINGS
Handling rates                                                      SAVED    FMG       FMG
Deepsea vessels                160,tons/a.        300 tons/day           millions millions
Coasters                       100 tons/id        200 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990                tons
Deepsea vessels   14100       88.1 days            47 days          41.1       3.9    160.3
Coasters            9100        91 days          45.5 days          45.5       1.4     63.7
1995                tons                                                                224
Deepsea vessels   15800       98.7 days          52.7 days            46       3.9    179.4
Coasters           10400       104 days            52 days            52       1.4     72.8
252.2
ST.LOUIS
Handling rates
Deepsea vessels                450 tons/day       500 tons/day
Coasters                       171 tons/day       190 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990                tons
Deepsea vessel    41500       92.2 days            83 days           9.2       3.9     35.9
Coasters           19300    112.9 days          101.6 days          11.3       1.4     15.8
51.7
TOAMASINA           Vessel savings
Handling rates
Deepsea vessels                400 tons/day       500 tons/day
Coasters                       140 tons/day       200 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990                tons
Deepsea vessel   450000       1125 days           900 days
Coasters          103000    735.7 days            515 days
Total days needed at berth    1860.7 days            1415 days
Berth utilization            0.73                0.55
Days waiting for berth
Deepsea vessel s             168.7 days            27 days
Coasters                     110.4 days            15 days
Waiting time/Service time         0.15               0.03
Total days in port
Deepsea Malagasy flag       362.2      0.28    259.6 days          102.6       3.9    400.1
Deepsea Foreign flag        931.5      0.72    667.4 days          264.1       2.1    554.6
Coasters                    846.1                 530 days         316.1       1.7    537.4
1492.1
Cargo savings
Coffee can move through the port in an average of two weeks less time
40000 tons  x         1.5 millions FMG  x           14 days   x       0.1              230.1
365          interest
Total savings in        1990 Vessel time savings            1492.1 FMG millions
Cargo savings                   230.1
1722.2



- 82 -
WITHOUT PROJECT   WITH PROJECT                 BENEFITS
SHIPDAYS Cost/day SAVINGS
f                        SAVED    FMO       IWO
TOLAGIARO                                                                    milliono millions
Handling rates
Deepsea vessels               300 tons/day       400 tons/day
Coasters                      200 tonsiday       275 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990               tons
Deepsea vessel    22500        75 days          56.3 days          18.7       3.9     72.9
Coaoters           11400       57 days          41.5 days          15.5      1.56     24.2
1995               tons                                                               97 1
Deepsea vessel    27700      92.3 days          69.3 days            23       3.9     89.7
Coasters           16800       84 days          61.1 days          22.9      1.56     35.7
125.4
TOLIARA
Deepsea vessels               270 tons/day       400 tons/day
Coasters                      170 tons/day       260 tons/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading
1990               tons
Deepsea vessel    27600    101.2 days             69 days          33.2       3.9    129.5
Coasters           26000    152.9 dayd           100 days          52.9      1.56     82.5
1995               tons                                                                212
Deepsea vessel    28600    105.9 days           71.5 days          34.4       3.9    134.2
Coasters           26800    157.6 days         103.1 days          54.5      1.56       85
219.2
VOHEMAR            Vessel savings
Handling rates
Coasters dry cargo            170 tons/day       300 tons/day
Coasters petroleum            260 tons/day       260 tons/day
Shipdays needed for dry cargo
1990     27900 tons         164.1 days            93 days          71.1    1.378      97.8
1995     30500 tons         179.4 days         101.7 days          77.7    1.378    107.1
Shipdays needed for petroleum
1990      8000 tons          30.8 days          30.8 days
1995      9000 tons          34.6 days          34.6 days
Total days needed at berth
1990 [utilization]          194.9 (.53]        123.8 1.341
1995 (utilization]            214 t.591        136.3 (.3?1
Days waiting for berth
1990                        146.2 days          49.5 days          96.7    1.378    133.2
1995                        241.8 days          61.3 days         180.5    1.378    248.7
Waiting time/Service time
1990                         0.75                0.4
1995                         1.13               0.45



- 83 -
VOHEMAR             Cargo savings                                                     SAVINGS
Cargo transforred from Antalaha                                                       FHG
Road transport (19%41        2200 tons  x      22800 FMGIton  Road cost           millipno
less lighterage lobas                                          FMG million
1 percent of cargo value      1.5 PMG mill.   15000 TMG/ton
1990                         2200 tons  x       7800    a          17.2
1995                         2600 tons  x       7800    -          20.3
Ship handling rates          Antalaha           Vohemar
45 tons/day       170 tons/day Shipdays Cost/day
Shipdays needed for loading or unloading                           saved    FMG millions
1990      2200 tons          48.9 days          12.9 days            36      1.38     49.6
1995      2600 tons          57.8 days          15.3 days          42.5      1.?8     58.6
Total savings  FMG millions       1990               1995
Ship working time            97.8              107.1
Ship waiting time           133.2              248.7
Cargo savings                49.6               58.6
less cargo costs            (17.2]             (20.31
263.4              394.1
NAVIQATION AIDS AND SHIPPING ASSISTANCE                                               SAVINGS
FMG
Savings in entering ports   vesselst savings per/shipeall:  FMG millions              millions
Deepsea vessels    0.33       250    ten hours             3.9                       135.1
Coasters            0.33     1350    ten hours             1.5                         281
Savings in night operations
Deepsea vessels                75    one day               3.9                       292.5
Coasters                      450    one half day          1.5                       337.5
1046.1
Source: Annex 4.1 and 4.2
:,ay 1986



- 84 -
MADAGAC                                                  Annex 4.5
PTS REHILITATION PRO.JECT                                         Page 1 of 2
Suiry tfor eah projec
Ant eanns                                                Morenava
Year             costs    befit.        not                  r             cots    befits         not
1986                 0             1      64    196                            0                    0
1987                 6                    6              1907                  6                    0
1988                 0           0        6              low                 162           0     -162
1989                 0           6'       6              1009                 99           0      -9
1990               18            0     -188              19o                 17          209       88
1991                59           0      -9               1991                  1         216      18
1992               286         102      -40              1992                  1         224      198
1993                so        1to       152              1998                 81         282      201
1994                88         199      161              199                  81         240      2"
1995                so         200      170              199F                 81         248      217
1996               8U          208      170              1996                 81         240      217
1997                as         209      176              1997                 $1         248      217
1998               8s          208      170              199                  81         248      217
1999                88         208      170              19"                  81         240      217
rate of rourn              881                           rate of return              41%
Manakaer                                                 Nosy-be
Year             cost    be1fts         net              Year              coot    benetits       net
198                  0                    0              10                    0                    0
1987                 0                    6              1i97                  0                    O
1988                 6           6        a              18"                   o           a        0
1989               206           0     -265              1909                  0           0        O
19                  84          80       46              1990                  a           a        0
1991               85O         162    -19                1991                882           0     -802
1m                  4          1in      110              1092                 22         224      202
1093                18         19       1S5               199"                22         229      207
194                 18         171      150              1994                 22         284      212
1995                18         174      161              1995                 22         240      218
1996                18         174      161              190                  22         246      224
1997                18         174      161              "19?                 22         252      280
198                 18          07       74              109                  22         252      280
1999                18          18        1              19"                  22         252      286
rate of return             26%                           rate of return              681
Mahajanga                                                St.Louis
Year             cost.   benefits       net              Year              costs    benefits      not
1986                 0                    a              190                  6                     0
1987               154                 -154              1997                 0                     0
1986               888                 -888              1900                 0            6        0
1989               551         246    -811               1909                              6        a
1990                67         491      424              1996                  6           0        6
1991                76         494      416              1991                              a 0      0
192                 75         S        425              1992                288          52    -184
1998                75         08       420              1908                  2          52      Sa
1994                75         WI       482              1994                  2          52       ca
1993                75         U        482              1995                 2           52       so
1990                75          67      482              1096                 2           52       60
1"9                 75         56       482              1997                  2          52      s6
199$                76         607      482              10"                   2          52      s6
19"                  6         200      26               199"                  2          52       so
rote of return             221                           rate of return              195



- 85 -
IMAOASCAR                                                  Annex 4.C
PORTS REILIUTATIN PROJECT                                           Page 2 of 2
Toams I no                                                 Vohmar
Year             costs    bentfit.       not               Year              costa    beofitt        not
1988                 9                     9               1908                  9                     0
1987               701                  -701               1987                268                 -298
1988               288            0     -2980              188                 440           0      -440
1989             1is"             9    -1683               1999                220         241        21
1968              1264          s61     -498               1ow                  81         268       232
1991               868         1722       659              1991                 81         236       254
9m 926                         1722     1o"                1992                 81         889       278
1998                81         1722     1691               1988                 81        8S5        894
1994                81         172      1891               1994                 81         868       882
1995                81         172      1891               1995                 81         394       868
1996                81         1722     1691               1998                 81         894       8e8
1997                81         1722     1691               1997                 31         894       s68
1998                81         1722     1691               198                  81         894       868
1999                81         1722     1691               1999                 81         197       160
rota of roturn              825                            rata of return              265
Tolagnaro                                                  Shipping and novelds
Year             costa    benefit        not               Year              costs   benefits        net
lea. op.cost
1988                 0                     0               1966                  9                     9
1987                 9                     a               1987                127                  -127
1988                80            0      -89               198                 495           0      -495
1989               175            o     -17t               199                651         836      -216
1990               188           97      -86               19"                 714         670       -44
1991                17          102       85               1991                898         707      -18
im                  17          lo7       68               1m                  522         679       148
1998                17          118       96               1998                  0         679      879
1994                17          119      102               1994                  a         670       670
1995                17          125     1q                1995                  9         679      O67
1996                17          125      1                 1998                  9         679       679
1997                1725                                   1997                  0         6e        879
1998                17          125      198               1m                    9         679       676
1999                17          125      198               1199                  a         679       676
rata of return              26X                            rata of return              26%
Toli ra                                                    Total portproject
Yoer             costs    benefits       net               Year              costs   benofits        net
lesa op.cost
1986                 o                     9               1988                  9                     9
1987                 9                     o               L987               1266                 -1268
1988               173            0     -178               1988               2471           0    -2471
1989               li1            0     -110               1980               2974         61e    -2158
1999               296          212      -66               1990               2819        2852        33
1991               151          218       62               1991               2862        3888      1181
1992                15          214      19                1992               1891        4206     2516
1993                16          216      291               1998                  0        4168     4183
1994                15          217      242               1994                  0        4246     4248
1996                15          219      294               1995                  0        4816     4816
1996                15          219      20b               1996                  0        4321     4821
1997                15          219      294               1997                  0        4327     4327
1998                1S          219      204               1986                  0        4234     4234
1999                1S          219      294               1999                  0        3737      3737
rota of return              29i                            rata of return              29%



- 86 -
M&DAGABCAR                         Annex 4.6
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic returns and sensitivity tests
Sub-project        Best      Benefits Costs    Benefits-10         First year
estimate less 20% plus 10  Costs+102           returns
Antsiranana               38       25        33        27 2               35 %
Mahajanga                 22        15       19        16 2               24 %
Manakara                  25        16       22        17 X               20 X
Morondava                 41       31        36        32 Z               37 2
Nosy-be                   53       40        47        42 %               48 %
St.Louis                  19       10        15        11 2               19 %
Toamasina                 32       25        29        26 %               30 2
Tolagnaro                 28       19        24        20 %               26 Z
Toliara                   29       21        25        21 %               27 %
Vohemar                   26       19        23        19 2               22 1
Navigation aids
and Shipping              26       17        22        18 2               21 2
Total project             29       22        26        23 %               23 %
Source: Mission estimates
June 1986



- 87 -
MADAGASCAR - PORTS REHABILITATION PRMJECT                        Annegx 5.1
S E P T
Income Statemnts
for tho yers ended December 81st
(millon FMO)
1930    1981    192    INS    1984   1is6
----------unudtd -------           audited
Port Revenue:
Port dues: - on cargo        126     128      123     126     1a1      628
- on ships       898      88      86      446      416     444
Cargo handling             1,844   1,004   1,787   1,440   2,159   2,479
Storage and Rentals        1,951      662     829   2,877     946   1,142
Other                        584   1,116     622      597     787     875
4,898   4,400   8,671   4,996   4,891   4,964
Other Income               584     186     155      868    a88      844
Working Expenses:
Salaries                   2,864   2,718   2,947   B,087   1,481   8,759
Materials                    924     727     616      619     869   1,156
Other                        840     22      421      481     597     61U
3,626   3,642   3,984   4,107   4,947   5,681
Operating Result           1,854    694    (158)  1,186    (188)   (238)
Depreciation                 410     642      610   1,254     957     944
Not Operating Result         944     252    (668)    (86) (1,145) (1,177)
Interest Expense             139     137     139      128     1S9     148
.Extraordinary Iteos(net)                                   (1,487)   (768)
Net Income (Loss)            805     115    (8907)   (196) (2,791) (2,091)
November 196



- 88 -
MADAGCR - PORTS REHBILITATION PROJECT                           Annex 6.2
S E P T
Bl once Sheets at Dacember 81st
(mIllIon FMG)
1980    1981    1902    1988   1964    1905
-----unaudited----   -            audited
ASSETS
Cash                        839      179     147     168   1,439   1,714
Accounts Receivable       8,249   9,068   9,238   9,988   4,622   4,50O
Inventories                 688      667     711     704     692   1,99
Current Assets          9,26   19,722  10,9,4  10,828   6,852   7,397
Fixed Asst.               6,471   6,229   6,911   5,677  13,616  14,147
Accumulated Depreciation                                   9,114   9,?78
.Net Fixed Asets          8,471   6,229   6,911   6,677   4,592   4,864
Deforred Charge                                               14        4
Other Assets              1,311   1,124   1,094   1,207   1,638  1,675
Total Asset              17,847  10,075  17,199  17,7M7  18,061  13,859
mon        -         -----  ------m
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities       5,780   7,163   7,205   7,1865  6,517   6,240
Long Term Debt            8,249   8,089   2,829   2,619   2,487   2,171
Provisions                1,621   1,021   1,960   1,159              8C1
Pald In Capitol           8,761   8,761   3,761   8,781   6,710   6,798
Reserves                  2,428   2,976   8,161   8,188      170  (1,962)
Current Incom"               en5     116    (807)   (198) (2,791) (2,091)
Totas  EquIty           6,909   6,852   6,115   8,758   4,097   2,68
Liablilties and Equity   17,947  10,076  17,199  17,797  18,051  18,859
Novembr 1996



- 89 -
MADAGASCAR - PORTS REAS!LZTATION PROJECt                        Annex 58
Fund   Statent.
(million 1U1'.)
1W0    1931    1002    1038   1904    1065
-------unauditd--------           audited
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Income                  665      115    (667)   (190) (2,791) (2,691)
Depreciation /_             41       642     539   1,8S4    (198)  1,245
Fun  ftrom Operations     1,216      767    (266)  I,I56  (2,064)   (6")
Net Borrowings                      (21)   (216)   (210)   (182)   (2")
Equity Capital                      (252)     76    684      18      624
Financing                           (462)   (140)    624     (47)    858
Totol Source8                      295    (403)  1,762  (8,981)   (466)
USES OF FUNDS
Working Capital                       82    (876)    749  (8,868) (1,276)
Net Plant and Equipment             4660    292      920    (218)   60
Other Inveetamnt                    (107)    (86)    118     490      (18)
Total Ues"                        295    (408)  1,762  (8,631)   (488)
ummus  gauss   muu  musums  m
I_ Includes aortization and other non-cash charge.
November 10



- 90 -
MADAGASCAR - PORTS REHABSLSTATION PRWOJECT                     Annex 5.4
S E P T
Ratio Aaalye1s
180    1981    1982    1988    1984    1985
- -------unaudited---------       audited
Eff I c Iency:
lovonue Turnover           SO-O%   79.6%   61.1%   67.8%   97.6X  118.6%
Receivable. Turnover /_    6'74     6O6     966      718     871     827
Inventory Turnover /a        68      s8      64      61     6e        71
Productivity:
Number of staff           4,468   4,681   4,815   4,528   4,480   4,460
Rovenue/amploy. /_b        1.11    0.93    0.89    1.18    1.6?    1.20
Tons of cargo/employs       149     117     146      118     186    18
Pricing:
Gon'l cargo (thous. ton)    607     576     627      518     597     6n
O FUC/ton                 6,129   5,226   4,289   7,686   5,420   0,892
Number of vessel            411     892     896     878      868     8s0
o million FMG/vessel       0.98    0.77    0.91    1.18    1.15    1.28
Prof Itabi I Ity:
Working Ratio              82.6X   82.81  168.51   88.6%  112.7%  111.6%
Operating Ratio            91.8%   97.4%  122.4%  100.7%  184.5X  130.7%
Return -in Fixed Assets    14.6%    4.6O  -10.8X   -1.2%  -22.5X  -26.6%
Liquldity:
Working Capital /c        8,477   3,669   2,889   8,688      336    (941)
Curront Ratio              1.60   1.56    1.40    1.51    1.06    0.89
Quick Ratio                1.53    1.47    1.38    1.48    0.88    0.68
Capitalization:
Debt to Equity             31.7%   80.7X   81.6%   27.9%   87.3%   45.2X
Asset Leverage             69.0%   62.1%   64.4%  61.9%   68.6% X    0.8%
/a Average days on hand
/M Million FPU's
M/ MillIon FUG'.
November 1988



- 91 -
MADAGASCAR - PORTS REHABILUTATION PROJECT                        Annox S.6
S E P T
Financial Forecast
Assumpti ons
198     1 1?    106I    1989    19U9    1991    19        1991    1994    1995
Traffic:
sonlI cargo (thou*. ton)    59o      680      670     S" 8     60 55"          670     o89     S9o      s9e
Number of vesselsa           38      856     354      852     850     348      846     844     842      840
Tariffs:
I16 FMU/ton                5,809   8,?20   6,964   6,964   8,064   8,064   0,964   8,964   7,741   7,482
19M  million FUM/vosset    1.80    1.66    1.87    1.87    1.87    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.80    1.73
Annual Increase              TX     20#     20%
Exch; ng rate USIFiMC        08g     689     680      689     880     6ss     630    689       689     689
Exchange rat. USSlFF       6.80    6.69    S.6O    6.60    S.69    6.89    S.69    8.89    6.68    6.80
Inflation                    7.2%    6.6X    6.61    7.OX    7.1X    4.9%    4.09    4.O%    4.9x    4.0%
1.009   1.972   1.145   1.223   1.896   1.401   1.457   1.516   1.576   1.839   1.796
Total Staff                4,400   4,290   4,189   4,970  83969   3,859   8,749   8,689   8,620   3,413
Interest Rate               9.10%   9.10%   9.19X   9.10X   9.10X   9.109   9.19%   9.19X   9.1G9   9.10%
Capital Investments:         997   2,997   2,710      711   1,986     104       97      48       O       9
Cyci. project:  6,999       15C     46%     49%
Port project:
Equipment:      8,890        5%     29X     29%      29%     85%
Civil works:      979                B%     29%      29%     29X     20X      1OX      6X
Depreciable Life (years)      80      s9      80       80     as      3a        89     38       30      30
Technical assistance:          0       0       0        
USM      9
Borrowings                   884   2,865   2,921   1,409   2,211      840      170      85       0       0
Caisse C'lo:FF 68,000        6X     29%     29%      20%     85X      0%      OX       O%
IDA:                     8o%      22X     17X
Port project US$  2,700        Ss      6X     29%      29%     29%     20%    1x        5%
Railway III  USS  1,999       15%     45X     49%
Cyclono II   USS  5,000       15X     46%     40X
Debt Amortization            260     260     260      260     502   1,087   1,160   1,150   1,159   1,160
Cash:           Rovonue       14%     15X     12%      12X     12X     12X      12X     12%     12X     12X
Recelvables:    Revenue      115X    9OX      79%      55%     48%     83X      26%     29%     29%     261
Inventory:      Revenue       17%     17%     17X      17%     17X     17X      17%     17%     17%     17%
Current Llablts:Expenses    116      98B%     6OX      6X      66%     49X      86X     88%8X 38X       8
November 1988



- 92 -
MADAGUCR - PORTS R4IUTATIOSN PROJECT                            Anne% 6.6
S E P T
Pro-toem   nco e   St*at.wtt
tor the years ended Decmber 81st
(mIllIon FM*)
1966    I"97   1i96    1899    190      1991    19m      1998    1994    190S
Revenue:
Cargo related             3,642   4,442   5,620   5,808   6,216   6,601   6,9s8   7,872   7,487   7,062
Vesel re lated              499      66      610     862     919     949      982   1,016   1,008   1,000
Other                       766      on6    81      921     947   1,626   1,0687   1,11    1,165   1,201
4,796    ,9806   7,292   7,692   9,120   8,667   9,616   9,497   9,649   9,803
Working Expensoe:
Salaries                  8,629   8,997   4,149   4,828   4,606   4,666   4,602   4,646   4,864   4,719
Materials                   922      972   1,92C   1,688   1,144   1,201   1,260   1,821   1,886   1,454
Other                       401      429     468     490     526     U68    s67       647     787     641
6,168   6,388   5,682   6,695   6,174   6,J61   6,429   6,618   6,80    7,014
Operating Reoult            (387)    517   1,666   1,797   1,94$   2,266   2,667   2,694   2,841   2,769
Deprociation                526      688    616      992     998   1,089   1,084   1,129   1,174   1,221
Not Operating Result        (0880)   (11i)    6S0    90S     958   1,217   1,608   1,7S6   1,687   1,586
Interest Expens             109     261      488    781    O86       992     92       689     742     688
Net Income (Loss)         (1,001)   (402)    862     174     117     225      576     916     926     930
Before Extr'y Its"       3        uan  uainin   mm. ,              m       mm..  minm
November 1996



- 93 -
MADAGASCAR - PORTS REHADILITATION PROJECT                      Annex 6.7
S E P t
Pro-form* Balance Shoets at Docember U1ot
(million FAG)
106    1987I   1900    1O9   low9    1001    1M         19      1994    1996
ASSETS
Cash                      1,190     688     67t    928      974   1,02?   1,082   1,140   1,168   1,176
Accounts Receivable       5,525   5,906   5,111   4,206   3,482   2,848   2,889   1,922   1,968   1,984
Inventories                  0      992   1,224   1,292   1,U88   1,487   1,614   1,595   1,620   1,048
Current Asets          ?7,620   7,184   7,210   8,420   5,799   5,819   4,935   4,057   4,781   4,809
Fixed Assets             15,777  29,061  24,868  28,779  29,768  81,176  82,624  88,875  85,2W0  88,689
Accuoulated Deprociation 10,782  12,175  18,818  15,798  17,976  19,778  21,696  23,786  25,909  29,214
Not Fixed Aset.           5,045   7,676  10,440  10,977  11,069  11,896  10,928  10,187   9,322   8,425
3t,orred Chargs               8       8       8       a       8       a        8       8       S       3
Other Asstet                196     116    (126)    866     726     882      782   1,871   1,961   2,641
--- ------ ------ ---- - -- - -
Total Assets             12,784  15,178  17,525  17,786  18,888  17,348  16,498  16,188  16,017  15,876
am      uaus           m=    au..   aam              aua         aaag
LIABILITIES
Current Liabillties       6,971   6,182   4,498   3,906   3,395   2,676   2,486   2,W65  2,579   2,857
Long Term Debt            2,755   5,360  8,031   9,190  10,809  10,208   9,228   8,156   7,008   6,68
Provisions                1,56W   1,500   1,560   1,000     260     250      260
Paid In Capital           6,7 W   6,710   6,710   6,710   6,710   8,710   6,710   8,710   6,710  6,710
R"erves                  (1 ,00)
Retalned Earnings        (3,172) (3,574) (8.212) (8,038) (2,921) (2,896) (2,121) (1,205)   (280,   B65
Total Equity            2,586   8,136   8,496   8,672   3,789  4,014   4,589   6,505   6,480   7,860
Liabilities and Equity   12,7U4  15,178  17,526  17,766  16,388  17,848  16,496  18,168  16,017  15,9?6
maa m              aum                                  =am   g
November 1966



- 94 -
MADAGASCAR - PORTS REHAILITATION PROJECT                        Annex 6.8
SEP T
Pro-forme Funds Statements
(million FMC'a)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    199      1993    1994    1995
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Not Income                (1,081)   (402)   3862     174     11?     226      675     916     925     930
Depreciation                528      668     816     892     993   1,039   1,084   1,129   1,174   1,221
Funds from Operatlons       (555)    268   1,172   1,066  1,110   1,264   1,869   2,946   2,099   2,151
Not Borrowlngs               584   2,006   2,671   1,159   1,709    (608)   (9t0) (1,0B5) (1,10) (1,159)
Equlty Csplt.l              989   1,000        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Financing                 i,573  38605   2,671   1,159   1,709    (6ON)   (090) (1,086) (1,159) (1,165)
Total Sources           1,019   8,871   3,848   2,225   2,619      56       679 at   9      949   1,001
USES OF FUNDS
Working Capital           2,499      458     712    (209)   (110)     3o      65    (347)       0      (3)
Net Plant ond Equipment   1,207   3,499   3,374   1,429   1,621      632      514     438     369     324
Other Investments         (2,879)    (81)   (243)    998   1,108      (94)    190     889     590     680
Total Ues                 1,018   3,871   3,843   2,225   2,819      588    879       9890    949   1,001
November 1986



- 95 -
MADAGASCAR - PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT                       Annex 6.9
S t P T
Pro-form, Ratio Analysis
I988    1997    1900    1989    1't;   1991    1992    198    1994    1995
Efflelncy:
Revenue Turnover           95.1%   75.9X   09.8%   70.1%   08.*X   75.1X   88.8%   98.7X  188.5%  116.4%
Receivables Turnover /a    415       828     252     197     1s8      120      98      78      78      78
Inventory Tu ...over /_a   C 8        s8      78      79      79      82  86           87  8          64
Productlvlty /bt            1.02    1.20    1.48    1.44    1.44    1.58    1.59    1.08    1.67    1.69
/;_            184     185     180      188     189     145     162     189      168     176
Pricing:
d-n'l cargo (thou*. ton)    o6o              669 579  5       560    589      670     580     590    8s
* FMC/ton                 8,098   7,894   9,888  10,56W  11,889  11,752  12,222  12,710  12,690  12,870
Number of vessels           868    a85       854     852     360     848      848     844     842     840
A million fUG/vessel        1.89    1.79    2.29    2.45    2.62    2.78    2.84    2.96    2.95    2.94
Profitability:
Working Ratio               107X      91X     77%     77%     78%     74X      71X    7?x      71X     72X
Operating Ratlo             118X    108X      88X     88X     88X     8tX      88X     82X     88%     84%
Return on Fixed Assets    -18.5X   -2.8x    9.8%    8.6X    8.4%   lO.SX   18.5%   18.7%   17.1X   17.7%
Not Return (after mnt.)   -22.8%  -4.2X    4.09    1.8%    1.OX    1.9X    5.2X    8.7%    9.5X   10.5%
Liquidity:
Working Capital /d        1,549   2,892   2,714   2,514   2,404   2,484   2,499   2,152   2,152   2,149
Current Ratio               1.8    1..'    1.6       1.8     1.7     1.8      2.0     1.9     1.8     1.8
Quick Ratio                 1.1      1.2     1.4     1.4     1.4     1.5      1.8     1.4     1.4     1.4
Capitalization:
Debt to Equity               62X    t3X       70X     71X     74X     72X      67X     se%     52%     44%
Asset Leverage               80X      79X     80X     79X     79X     77X      72X     seX    69%      54%
Self Flnancing /_.e         -9X    -11X       11%     12X      8%      8t%    112%    209%    258X    287%
/_a Average days on hand
/_b 1985 million FMG revenue per employee
/Ic Tons of cargo/employ.
Mid lIlion FMG's
N. Not Income : Net Capital Expenditures
November 198B



MADAGASCAR
PORTS  REHABILITAXOlh     rKUJzCT                                                           A-  5 10
1984 lITS MI00
ATSMr-                                                                                                             rStEows-     mDdT-
AN" K1JA          TOL IAY TOLAI4ARO MANM(ARA MAMW   OREVA  3tOIeE   MSY-GE  V0EIM   APTM4a  SM@AvA                    TR IR    At   ETStHINV AALAVA Sr AlUS         TFLTAL
PO.t 0Doe                  3.907    3.189      2,754     1.344      873       610       439      250    3.416       5St        301        0       53        46        64       60    1,324   19.046
S.rth... Foos             4,236    5.142       4,159    4.909     3.258    2.306    5,442        484    3.771        451      4*          0        14       64       340      414    4.3=6   41.363
Cargo h" dIlh Foos         7,76M    1.,564     7,036    1,977    2.962        509    5,723       764   20.436    1,427        315        64      32         0       434      361         a   #1.866
Passenger                     0        12          0        0         0         0        0         0         2        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        14
P;loot.                    3.0646       0      1o414        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0 o    .060
Cooc"oto                  X49,74?   95,220    24,582         0      354         0    3,768         0    16,319    5,735         0         0        0         0       332        0    7,134  204.99
loW..  U.-e..to        69,422   115,335    39.92S    8,230      7,44?    3.225   IS.372    1.690   45,944       0.131      461        64      392       112       seo       835    4 ,7eS4  S2.167
E.pr wi tow,*
Staff                     12.221    16,791    14,344    6.l86e    7.7s5    1,639    2,085        822    2,670    3.759        679       739       746    1.974    2,264          0        0   74,s4
S,.pp  i                   2.86s    2.875      2.856     1.133     1,395      739       s1       365     1.294       480      279       130       200      2m9       327       126      SW    16,343
4.930    4,930      74.01    4,375    292        1.316      645       48       632 2,631267    2.901       1,361     1.701    1,55     2 A.665     09       S364   42.476
e-..rh.                   23,846   29.268     29,627    13.925    14,410    4,399    3.824    2.m        7.853    7.29S    4,595    2,655    3,247    4,532    5,092         1,233      907  5,934
To1.4  Ep,p**"          43,872   53,854    54,506   25.619   26,442    8,093    7.035    4,09S   14,448    13,421    0,4S4    4.,6s    b,974    0,338    9,366    2,232    1,669  292.337
Op.e'al..  Result         25.S50   61,2S5   (14.503)  (17.389)  (18,%")   (4.660)   6,337   (2,397)  31,496   (5,290)  (7,993)  (4,021)  (S,562)   (8.226)  (0.378)  (1,397)  13.113   39*,63
L.a. Opfrc.atie           67,100    57,100    44,900    6,400    35,000    3,300   16,400          0   24,0D0      4,300                  0    2,000         0    3.600                4,000  270,1D0
met 08otpt;"i   R  It   (61,5S0)   4,1SI   (S9,483)  (23,789)  (33,995)  (6,168)  (10.063)  (2,397)   7,496   (9,590)  (7,993)  (4,821)  (1.502)  (6,226)  (11.978)  (1,397)   9.1t5  (20 o270)
R.q.i.ra Tariff             so 70    -3 6%    149 0a   209 1   456 60   253.30    6555    141.202   -16.31    117.90   1733.6%   7532.6   1934.25  7344.61   3209.910   167.31   -61.70         693 
ltcre...*
June 1986



- 97 -
Annex 5.11
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ex3lanation of Main Accounts
The sources of revenue of the port authority are:
Entry feos, based on the tonnage of all ships exceeding 50 tons
deadweight, vary according to port.
Berthing fees, computed by the hour, according to length of vessel
moored alongside quays, or according to displacement tonnage when
at anchorage; these also vary according to port.
Fees for vilotina and tugboat service are parceived in a lump sum
where the service is mandatory (Antsiranana, Toamasina, Toliara).
Cargo charges are calculated by the gross ton or by head of
cattle, the duties at unloading exceeding the charges at loading
by more than 502. Fees are also collected on each passonger.
All the aforementioned fees havo been last revised in 1979
(increase of 302).
Rentals from concessions include:
- a rental by the m2, which,may not be modified during the
contract period,
- a fee based on a certain percentage of the volume of business of
the contracting party.
In ceztain ports these revenues amount to 50%   - 75% of the total
port revenues.
Expenses
Lxpenses are divided ir.to nine budget headings according to
function, and a single heading for investment.
Function
81      Personnel:  salaries and entitlements
82      Miscellaneous personnel expenses
83      Equipment and services
84      Materials
85      Port maintenance
86      Contributions and subventions
87      Contingencies
88      Transport of personnel



- 98 -
Annex 5.11
Page 2 of 2
Capital
81      Capital and investments
The total budget for expenditures in 1984 amounted to 364 million
FMG, whereas the revenues did not exceed 292 millions PMG.
The figures for the 1984 budget indicate that the gap between
revenues and expenses fall mainly under two headings:
1.      Perconnel expenses, which were 28X below budget allocation
under the two pertinent headings.
2.      Maintenance costs, which were also 28X below the sums
allocated for this purpose. This fact is indicative of the
operational difficulties experienced by the administration,
particularly if one considers the unmet requirements of
maintenance of ports installations and equipment.



- 99 -
MADAGASCAR PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT            Annex 5.12
Pro-forma Ports Budget
(million FMG's)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Revenue                          589   747   867-  972 1,088 1,201
Expenses
Working Expenses               319   353   393   '41   500   572
Depreciation
Existing assets              270   259   249   239   229   220
Project Assets                 0    38    67   115   163   199
270   297   316   354   392   419
589   650   709   795   d92   991
Capital Recovery                      97   158   177   196   210
(@ 102 factor)
Tariff Increases
In real terms                       19.6%  9.3%  5.3%  4.9%  3.3%
In current terms                    26.8% 16.1% 12.1% 11.9% 10.4%



- 100 -
ANNEX 5.13
Page 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pro-forms Ports buitaet
Assumtions
1.       Traffic (see Annex 4.3)
2.       Inflation (see Annex 5.5)
3.       Personnel.  From 1986 on, personnel expenses decrease by 4% less
than the rate of inflation.
4.       Other Operatina Expenses.  Increase in line with rate of
inflation.
5.       Maintenance Expenses.  The budget allocation for maintenance will
increase by 2002 over a period of five years in real terms.
6.       Capital Recovery Factor. 10% p. a.
7.       Depreciation.   Straight line over the estimated useful economic
life. All civil works, infrastructural works, and equipment, are
depreciated by the Ports budget.
8.       Overhead.  Under this category, a share of the cost of operation
of the central services in Antananarivo (taking the inflation rate into
account) has been included in the operations cost of each port.
9.       Revenues. It zas been assumed that the revenues will equal
expenses.
November 1986



I '  IBRD 195951
32-                              MADAGASCAR                                                                                                            12*
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                  Antsimnanu
4.    ProJeot ports
Paved oaids                                                                     St. Louis  4.
All*weethords road.
Nosy  Be4A'b.Iobe
__ _Non-vermoeni nl*eds                                                             o    / 4                 +,Vahemrna
*_.  Aoilfroodsemo 
River,
4     Ai.rports
*     Nehonai capital                                                            I                               Sombovo
I     l.olooamv
*     Fofitonylpromvnc.) sopitols                                  Anoldovao      I
Antsoh, brh                     4 AMoop
,ntoeotdoval be es                                      __                                                          lho
Mohoihongo         rno
m i                ./                    Mondritsato
14e                             SoopolsOe         ~~~~~~MarJvoory        AMompitony                         tMasra
/                                                               )  
/                Ambotobo..'y0        /w                                    J
4. p.oiorpy                   ovknn<              "soonn           Aoaonteroeo-iontgo     g
Andleo                       /   +Ambodftotro,
2      4Andr.omse                     noerivo Aimonm
/         OMorofenobe
moint'rono<R                                              \O0botondra2t0
'A                                              } Anita 4Toancssina
X                      AnEazob4eaX ~~~Angoiorob>f7
04.An.Tozvo im                                    r                    J /
/                                               . pmedrotrsosIvZ
tX   biroono m ondidr   S/obib~~~~~~~~ibiony
Soov nandr,onoa           A                  4  btomondry
mond"voto               Antsireli?AI stMiboan
Belo*-Tunrbihmn                            Fa "  4'mp
20-                                                                    Antsir             Morolombo    /                                               20~
Morond2wogtgmbondy LeFondr.o                                                /
Ambotofmanodro  o        6oArnbositra    NoyVoriko
Amboh.moh too
ionara ts    o W  Mananjory
Moombd    Tondovo                  0borohol'o
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'"
OAkAnooobo           lt
4'                 -      4'         oi..be        Vohwpon      KILOMETERS o     so    100    150   200
i                                 _~~~~~~~~~Vr              MILES O         SO          too
-  okooho
Toliooo                                                       Vo+ndr      ono             -
4.deotr 4'                              M,dony m    /AI!L  TANZANIA
TAO -W eS OW  *Wd CYRok'                                                                             /
t      (fera eto                  /2 - \->I                            ,  )             COMORo5
nwn seW owc       r aw. MO                    tAMl,O                            /                             'AI
o'                                                4'fA 4                                                         BiMonan.- 1 i r
5005.5 VW 4 mnkoa', Jo Us...-..,.- t.. \~4
Cr"    Ia6lrhe  \~.             AI r  vx
aItr.SIo. Xth 5rW                       \                                     /                             /         j     ' 
end SW u0ftnu merry~ W-53A'tm
m us )W do en err/.o i f                                                                                                            MADAGASCAR
*Vofs tFS.,r, _SP'*ldfl                                                     Tolanarer
awfrrwom o' I" rs  Ar                                       mAebosombe   Jt -SfUtN \
wro-     rW                                                                                                  AFRICA
r c  tNOVMBEL19AND
NOVEMBER 10B3



