Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C Q4?
Report No. P-4421-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 13.2 MILLION (US$ 16.0 MILLION)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Malagasy Franc (FMG)
Average 1985          September 1986
US$ 1.00    =        FMG663                 FMG752
FMG 1,000            US$1.51                US$1.33
SDR 1.00    =        FMG673                 FMG907
The Staff Appraisal Report uses the exchange rate at the time of appraisal,
US$1.00 = FMG630 (see paragraph 3.20 of the Staff Appraisal Report).
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      -      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DAC       -      Directorate of Civil Aviation, Merchant Marine and
Meteorology
FAC       -      Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
KfW       -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of
Germany)
MTRT      -      Ministare des Transports, du Ravitaillement et du
Tourisme
ODA       -      Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
SEPT      -      Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina
SOLIMA    -     Malagasy national petroleum company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:      Government; Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina
(SEPT); coastal shipping and cargo handling companies.
Amount:             SDR 13.2 million (US$16.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA terms.
Relending:          About US$2.7 million would be onlent to SEPT, over 20
years, with six years' grace, at 9.1 percent p.a. interest,
a commitment fee of 0.75 percent p.a., and the foreign
exchange risk borne by the Government.
Project
Objectives:         The objectives of this project are: (i) to rehabilitate
infrastructure in selected ports so as to reduce cost of
shipping; (ii) to strengthen sector management and to
improve institutional performance; (iii) to reduce delays
and safety hazards to shipping; and (iv) to reestablish
full cost recovery for the port sector.
Project            The project would. consist of the following components: (i)
Description:        rehabilitation of ports infrastructure; (ii) modifications
and improvements to cargo handling; (iii) strengthening
navigation and other services to shipping, and (iv)
institutional development and reform, including a
comprehensive training program.
Benefits:          The project is expected to reduce the cost of international
and coastal shipping through improved cargo handling.
Quantified benefits include improved ship utilization. Non-
quantified benefits include improved safety of navigation,
institutional and technological improvements.
Risks:              The main risk facing the project concerns the capability of
institutions concerned to carry out the project. Most
seriously the Toamasina component depends on the continued
commitment of Government and SEPT to the Action Plan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banh authorization.



-il-
Local     Foreign      Total
------- US$ Million -------
Estimated Coats
Port Infrastructure                           1.8         2.7          4.5
Cargo Handling                                1.0         7.3          8.3
Navigation and Other Shipping Services        0.8         3.4          4.2
Institutional Development                     0.6         4.8          5.4
Engineering, Bid Documents, Supervision    0.2            2.1          2.3
Base Cost                                     4.4        20.3         24.7
Contingencies:  Physical                      0.4         2.0          2.5
Price                        1.4         6.3          7.6
Total Project Cost (not of taxes)             6.2        28.6         34.8
Total Project Cost (including taxes)         13.5        28.6         42.1
Financing Plan (net of taxes)
IDA                                           2.4        13.6         16.0
France (CCCE)                                 0.0        10.0         10.0
France (FAC)                                  0.0         2.6          2.6
Federal Republic of Germany (KfW)             0.0         2.3          2.3
Great Britain (ODA)                           0.0         0.1          0.1
Government, SEPT, other local                 3.8         0.0          3.8
beneficiaries
Total                                         6.2        28.6         34.8
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Years                   1987       1988       1989       1990
-U________ uSS Million -----
Annual                                1.6       2.9        3.2        3.1
Cumulative                           1.6        4.5        7.7       10.8
Bank Fiscal Years                   1991       1992       1993
-- US$ Million ------
Annual                               2.6        2.0        0.6
Cumulative                          13.4       15.4       16.0
Economic Rate of Return: 29%
Appraisal Report:           6294-MAG
IBRD 119595, Madagascar: Ports Rehabilitation
Project



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA credit of SDR 13.2 million (US$ 16.0 million equivalent) to the
Democratic Republic of Madagascar on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Ports Rehabilitation Project. Cofinancing for the project will be provided
by the Federal Republic of Germany and by France through the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC). Britain (ODA) also contributed to project preparation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Current Economic Situation and Prospects"
(Report No. 5996-MAG) was distributed to the Executive Directors and to
participants in the Madagascar Consultative Group in March 1986. Its
conclusions as well as the results of IMP negotiations on a Sixth Standby
Program are reflected below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.       With a population of 10 million and a per capita income of US$250
in 19B5,1 Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. The
country is sparsely settled, with a population density of about 17
inhabitants per square kilometer. While generally well endowed with
natural resources and a variety of soils, there are large regional
variations in ecology and climate. Agriculture is the mainstay of the
economy, providing employment for 88 percent of the population, creating
two-fifths of GDP and generating more than 80 percent of export earnings.
4.       The years following 1972 marked a turning point in Madagascar's
political and economic development.  The government that took office in
1972 emphasized national control of the economy. It introduced inward-
looking policies aiming at self-sufficiency in industry and agriculture,
nationalized most of the larger private companies (which were essentially
foreign-owned), and established direct or indirect state control over the
greater part of agriculture marketing. A new system of regional and local
government (the fokonolona system) was introduced, intended to provide for
decentralization within a framework of centralized control. The present
regime, which came to power in 1975, intensified, extended, and codified
these policies. Pricing policies became biased in favor of urban
consumers. However, fiscal and external economic policy remained cautious
11 Provisional Atlas estimate.



through most of the decade, and the level of public external debt was
extremely low. In 1978, however, Government decided to diversify the
economy, taking advantage of Madagascar's borrowing potential, and adopted
a policy of "all-out investment.' Many new parastatal companies were
created. Unfortunately many of the projects selected made very little
contribution to GNP, exports, or debt-servicing capacity, so that by 1980
the debt service ratio was rising sharply.
5.       From 1973 to 1982, real per capita GDP fell by an estimated 28
percent. The main factors behind this decline were: (a) the persistent
climate of uncertainty within the private sector created by the
nationalizations of the mid-1970s, combined with the rapid expansion of an
inefficient and unmanageable public sector; (b) excessive market
regulation, through price fixing and controls that favored urban consumers,
restrictive licensing legislation, quantitative import restrictions and
exchange controls, and the establishment of national and regional marketing
monopolies (cereals, agricultural inputs, basic commodities, road and sea
transport, financial institutions); and (c) the neglect of smallholder
agriculture in favor of import-substitution manufacturing, including
enterprises of dubious economic value.
6.       The financial crisis that started in 1980 was the result both of
inappropriate policies and of external shocks. While export prices flagged
and international oil prices doubled, GDP and export volumes continued to
decline, the budgetary deficit rose to 18 percent of GDP, domestic
inflation reached 30 percent per year, external debt service obligations
(before rescheduling) relative to exports escalated from about 4 percent in
1978 to a peak 90 percent in 1985, and the current account deficit of the
balance of payments reached 18 percent of GDP. As resource constraints
tightened, domestic investment plummeted. Under the impact of heavy
external payment obligations, declining export earnings, and reduced
creditworthiness, severe foreign exchange shortages prevailed. Import
constraints, the severe rationing of foreign exchange, and an overvalued
exchange rate contributed to a sustained decline in industrial and
agricultural production.
7.       Faced with an unsustainable external current account gap,
Government began to implement stabilization measures in 1981 with IMF
assistance. From 1983, aggregate expenditure was steadily reduced and
gross domestic savings increased. Among the notable measures taken to
control demand were the abolition of consumer subsidies and tight monetary
management. Sustained austerity combined with measures to boost revenues
helped reduce the budget deficit and inflation. Measures were also taken
to restore production incentives. Throughout 1982-85, the FMG underwent a
real depreciation of 25 percent vis-a-vis the SDR, and a further 20 percent
depreciation was implemented in August of this year. Realistic tariffs in
the public sector were established while a program of liberalization of
prices and markets was undertaken in the agricultural, industrial, and
transport sectors.
8.       Between 1980 and 1985, agricultural output fluctuated.  Production
of rice remained at around 2 million metric tons of paddy per year.
Madagascar had to continue importing rice throughout the period, although
the volume imported declined steadily from a peak 356,000 metric tons in



- 3 -
1982 to about 105,000 metric tons in 1985. The decline in rice imports,
however, was due to foreign exchange scarcity rather than any marked
increaso in doniestic self-sufficiency. Production of other food crops
(maize, potatoes, cassava, sweet potatoes) grew steadily and significantly,
following higher demand for these crops as a result of incroased rice
prices. Cotton production grew rapidly in response to increased producer
prices and, with the support of a project financed by IDA and France,
Madagascar became a net exporter of cotton fiber. The production of other
industrial and export crops generally stagnated (e.g., tobacco, coffee,
pepper) or declined (e.g., groundnuts). The output of two other principal
export crops, vanilla and cloves, was stagnant in the face of limited world
market demand.
9.       Industrial output declined sharply  'etween 1980 and 1984 with a
modest recovery in 1985. Industrial manufacturing capacity has been
heavily underutilized in recent years owing to shortages of domestically
supplied and imported inputs and spare parts. The construction industry
also remained slack. On the policy front, Government initiated positive
changes, easing pricing controls, improving the administration of foreign
exchange allocation, and legislating a new Investment Code aimed at
attracting foreign private investors. An export earnings retention system
(the EPI scheme) was established that provided incentives to exporters. A
liberalized import regime is being implemented that would reduce the number
of goods covered by quantitative restrictions.
10.      Owing to the slow growth of agriculture and industry, transport
activity also stagnated. Costs escalated due to the dilapidated state of
the transport system. Low administered tariffs reduced incentives to
private transporters, thus further discouraging the provision of services.
To improve the transport system and the policy environment, Government
selected an "economic network" of about 10,000 kms of primary and secondary
roads for priority rehabilitation; established a road fund for maintenance;
and permitted tariff increases for the roads, railways, and the national
airline. A naeional transport plan is now being prepared with IDA support.
11.      Public Finance.  The "all-out investment" campaign of the late
1970s caused an unprecedented growth in public capital expenditures. It
was largely financed by external loans and substantial budget deficits
leading to the accumulation of arrears. Between 1981 and 1985, the bulk of
the fiscal adjustment was accomplished by cutting capital expenditures,
reducing general Government activity, containing the expansion of the
payroll, and phasing out budgetary subsidies to parastatals (many of which
subsequently became indebted to the banking system). Given the low level
of activity of the economy, attempts to increase revenues were generally
less successful. The magnitude of the overall budgetary deficit, which
stood at 18 percent of GDP in 1980, was reduced to 4.5 percent in 1985.
Current budgetary deficits were eliminated from 1983 on, so that the
Government was in a position to contribute to development expenditures.
Nevertheless, the size of the current surplus remains small relative to
public investment needs, and the execution of some foreign-financed
projects is slowed by the lack of local cost financing.



-4-
12.      Monetary developments during 1980-85 were generally in line with
fiscal developments, reflecting Implementation of stabilization measures.
Throughout the period, the growth of credit to Government was reduced and,
beginning in 1982, credit to the non-government (i.e., parastatal and
private) sectors generally expanded faster than credit to the Government.
Domestic inflation was reduced, from about 30 percent in 1981 and 1982 to
approximately 11 per,-ent in 1985. The reduction of inflation during the
period was all the more remarkable in that it occurred at a time when the
Malagasy Franc was depreciating.
13.      Madagascar's balance of ;avments remained weak throughout 1980-85.
Although annual reductions in the volume of imports ware so great that they
adversely affected economic activities, they were outweighed by poor export
performance and heavy debt service payments. Nevertheless, there were
steady and marked improvements in the resource and current balances. In
1985, the resource gap (US$140 million) and current account deficit (US$258
million) had fallen to 25 percent and 45 percent of their respective 1980
levels.
14.      Based on the external debt portfolio at end 1985 and after taking
into account pipeline disbursements, Madagascar will need new net capital
inflows of about US$380 million per year during the 1986-90 period to cover
current account deficits, to meet scheduled debt repayments, and to
maintain a modest amount of gross reserves. The conditions under which
Madagascar is able to obtain new finance and reschedule the debt are of
crucial importance and will determine whether the country will be able to
overcome present external payment constraints, even with a high-quality
policy program.
15.      Financial Stratexy.  Since the emergence of the debt crisis at the
beginning of the 1980s, Madagascar has managed the balance of payments by
cutting imports, through the demand management measures described above,
complemented by substantial debt rescheduling. These measures are very
costly, involving disruption of economic activity and refinancing of some
originally concessional loans at less concessiona]l terms. Even more
important, they have yet to lead to a viable balance of payments, which can
only be achieved by restoring growth in export earnings. Madagascar now
has probably reached a limit to further cuts in imports as these are down
to bare essentials. While the country's creditors may continue to accord
debt rescheduling, to generate significant amounts of debt relief, the
rescheduling arrangements wotuld need to be more concessional than
previously. In the future, therefore, Madagascar must attempt to boost
export earnings as a means of strengthening the balance of payments and
reducing the debt burden. Concessional balance of payments support will
continue to be needed.
16.      Relationship with the IMF.  The Government complied with the
performance criteria of the fifth standby agreement signed in April 1985.
Most of the important program targets were achieved. A sixth standby
program was approved by the Fund Executive Directors in September 1986.
While continuing measures to stabilize the economy, the program emphasizes
the promotion of economic growth by means of further liberalization of the
external account, the rehabilitation of selected parastatals, improved
domestic producer prices and marketing systems, and a substantial step
devaluation of the FMG. Madagascar is eligible for IMF Structural
Adjustment Facility resources, and a medium-term program is being
formulated with the help of the Bank and the IMF.



17.      The third meeting of the Consultative Group for Madagascar took
place on April 25 and 26, 1986. The meeting agreed that the Government's
program of policy reforms was on the right path and it was urgent that it
be pursued and developed further. It was racognised that if Government's
efforts were to succeed, Madagascar needs substantial external support.
This would be provided by a combination of higher official development
assistance, particularly in the form of quick disbursing aid, and debt
rescheduling. Agreement on rescheduling was reached at a meeting of the
Paris Club in October 1986, and the Consultative Group is expected to meet
again late in 1987.
PART II- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
18.      Overall Lending Levels and Sectoral Composition.  As of September
1986, IDA credits to Madagascar amounted to US$597.93 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans totaled US$32.6
million. Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on
infrastructure, including urban and social infrastructure (48 percent of
lending), agriculture (35 percent), and energy (10 percent).   IFC has fou-
investments in Madagascar, in textiles, footwear, and fisheries. Annex II
contains a summary statement of past loans and IDA credits as of June 30,
1986.
19.      Infrastructure Lending.  The Bank has supported ten transport
projects with IDA credits totaling US$189.78 million. Six (US$147.2
million) were for the construction, maintenance, and rehabilitation of
highways; one (US$11.65 million) in 1970 to improve Madagascar's main port
of Toamasina; and three (US$31 million) to support the railway's
modernization efforts, in 1974, 1979 and 1986. All except the sixth
highway project and the recently signed third railways project have been
completed. Urban infrastructure development benefited in 1980 from a Water
Supply and Sanitation Credit for the capital city of Antananarivo (US$20.5
million), and an urban development project (US$12.8 million) in 1984. In
1984 IDA responded to the need to reconstruct cyclone damage with a US$15
million credit, and a supplemental credit of US$10 million, following the
March 1986 cyclone damage, was signed in August 1986.
20.      Agricultural Lending.  The Bank has supported 15 agricultural
projects, of which five have been completed and ten are under execution.
This has included three livestock development, four irrigation, two
agricultural institution development, two forestry projects, and one for
each of agricultural credit, rice intensification and cotton development.
After intensive preparation, an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit was
approved in March 1986. The program on which it was based included major
liberalization ot rice marketing, improved public expenditure programming,
and actions to promote export crops.
21.      Energy projects have received growing Bank Group attention.  IDA
participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June



-6-
1982. Two credits (for US$12.5 million and SDR 10.7 million) for petroleum
exploration support the Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply
of hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy sector. In both
projects the technical components have proceeded well. Over US$250 million
in exploration development by foreign oil companies was generated by
promotion under ona of the projects. Energy planning romaine weak,
although the recent decision by Government to give prime responsibility for
energy planning to the Ministry for Industry, Energy and Mines has sot the
scene for improved use of resources in this sector. An energy projcot has
been appraised.
22.      Other Lending.  In 1980, a US$5 million credit was made to the
Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar. An Industrial Sector Adjustment
credit of US$40 million became effective in August 1985, and a supplemental
credit of US$75.0 million from the Special Fund for Africa was approved in
December 1985. In the social sectors, education has been the major
recipient of Bank assistance, with two Credits in 1967 and 1976 totaling
US$11.8 million. A credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$11.5 million) for an
accounting and audit training project was approved in 1981; and a second
credit of US$10.3 million for management and accounting training in
February 1986.
23.      Implementation Problems.  Problems have arisen in the execution of
a number of projects, mainly delayFi, cost overruns, deficiencies in
management, and inadequate financial performance. Current problems center
un difficulties linked to the country's economic crisis, notably the acute
shortage of foreign exchange and budget funds, and institutional problems
with the parastatal system. The Baik has addressed generic issues through
Country Implementation Reviews, most recently in June 1985. The Government
has been responsive and there have been improvements in Government
portfolio management.
24.      Project Evaluation.   Eight completed projects have been audited
by the Operations Evaluation Department. Audit Report No. 1622 of December
1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was
generally successful.  However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of
August 1981 concluded that earlier assessments of project performance had
been over-optimistic, and that the actual rate of return was probably
negative. Audit Report No. 1143 of April 1976 of the first Education
Project concluded that the education and manpower training objectives were
satisfactorily achieved.  Report No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the
Third Highway project was well justified and had a satisfactory rate of
return despite substantial cost overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978
concluded that the physical objectives of the Tamatave Port project were
satisfactorily achieved but pointed out that the institutional objective
was not accomplished during project implementation because of inadequacies
in the staffing of the port authority. Report No. 5434 of January 29, 1984
on the first Railway Project concluded that due to overruns and delays, the
scaled-down project had an estimated rate of return of less than
10 percent. Report No. 5403 of December 28, 1984 covered two agricultural
projects: the Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project was a
profoundly disappointing operation, but the Village Livestock and Rural
Development Project contributed to laying the groundwork for more effective
services for traditional livestock owners, with good prospects for
sustainability.



- 7 -
25.      Bank Strategy and Futura Program.  Thi Bank strategy ia to support
the Government'z- efforts to rehabilitate and restructure the economy byt
(a) promoting policies and programs aimed at reforming incentive
structures, setting a more favorable climate for private
sector initiative and investments, and providing financial
and other support for appropriate policy programs;
(b) supporting sectoral strategies aimed at rehabilitating
productive infrastructure and establishing condltions for
long-torm growth, and providing financial and technical
assistance for these programs;
(c) strengthening the institutions responsible for soctoral
policy formulation and management; and
(d) helping Madagascar to mobilize and to make effective use of
donor financial, technical, and debt relief support.
26.      Lending Program Development.  On the assumption of continued
Government responsiveness, the Bank plans to support Government adjustment
efforts with sectoral and, possibly, structural adjustment lending as its
main vehicle of financial assistance. Further sector adjustment operations
in agriculture and industry are being prepared. These would support
continued market deregulation, export promotion, cost recovery, private
investment, parastatal reform, and rehabilitation of productive and
economic assets. The program would also address longer term issues in
human resource development, health, agricultural research, and
environmental degradation. Overall, future lending would concentrate
mainly on agriculture, industry, and transport.
27.      The main vehicle for aid coordination has been the Consultative
Group. An important part of the Bank's country assistance strategy is to
make the Consultative Group a more effective means of addressing
Madagascar's economic and financial problems. Donor and creditor support
of a comprehensive financing strategy, combined with a sound Government
program to stimulate real growth, offer the best prospects for future
development.
28.      Economic and Sector Work.  Our econoziic and sector work program
for the next three years is intended to support the identification of
future adjustment measures, as well as donor coordination within the CG
framework. It is directed at parastatal reform, improvement in sector
planning and public investment program formulation, and development of a
core medium-term lending program. A project for technical assistance to
the Directorate-General for Planning in planning and aid coordination is
under discussion with UNDP and the Government.   A study of the population,
health and nutrition sector has recently been cnrried out. The Bank is
also providing technical assistance ini policy analysis and selected
institution-building. Two Bank staff members have been seconded to assist
the Government (in public investment programming and in the management of
the livestock sector), and the Bank's Resident Mission has been augmented
by a resident economist. The Special Project Preparation Facility has and
will continue to be used to provide technical support for policy studies,
as well as to strengthen investment planning, progranming and budgeting.



PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport Network
29.     The fourth largest inland in the world, Madagascar covers an area
of 590,000 km.  Tho imland is sparsely populated (about 17 per km2), and
the population is unevenly distributad, with about one-half of all
inhabitants occupying tho central one-quarter of the island. The transport
infrastructure includes an extensive but low-standard road network, two
rail systems of considerable longth, a wvll-developed air network, four
international ports, 14 coastal shipping ports, about 15 minor ports, and a
navigable canal along the east coast. Apart from the central plateau,
where half of the population is concentrated, Madagascar's transport
infrastructure is inadequate and fails to provide proper access to all
productive areas of the country.
30.      Road Transport.  Affected by difficult terrain, heavy rainfall and
lack of suitable construction materials in some parts of the island, road
construction and maintenance in Madagascar is costly, and some regions
remain relatively isolated.  About 5,200 km of the 50,000 km of roads are
paved. The paved highway network consists oft (i) a main north-south link
connecting Mahajanga on the west const with Antananarivo (the capital) and
Antsirabe, a main industrial town; and (ii) an east-west road linking
Antananarivo with Toamasina, the main port. Under the Sixth Highway
Project, IDA and Switzerland are assisting in rehabilitating the Mahajanga-
Antananarivo road, while the African Development Bank, the European
Development Fund, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Switzerland are
financing rehabilitation of other priority road links.
31.      Total vehicles in 1984 numbered 42,000.  By contrast, there were
104,000 vehicles in 1976. Under the Sixth Highway Project, the Bank urged
further liberalization of road transport policies. During negotiations of
the Third Railway Project (Cr. 1694-MAG), in March 1986, Government agreed
to the free movement of goods and to the freedom of transport pricing.
32.      Rail Transport.  The railways operated by the parastatal Reseau
National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (RNCFM) consist of two separate and
unconnected single-track systems. The northern system (about 700 km)
connects Antananarivo and industrial areas in the plateau region with the
main port of Toamasina and the area of Lac Alaotra; the southern line (163
km) connects the southern highlands regional capital, Fianarantsoa, and the
main coffee producing area, with the port of Manakara. The Antananarivo-
Toamasina line is expected to remain the main means of tcansport for bulk
commodities from Toamasina to the central highlands and will also continue
to carry a substantial number of passengers.
33.      Air Transport.  Madagascar has developed a relatively dense air
transport network in response to the distance between population centers
and the poor condition of surface transport. Air Madagascar had been in
poor financial health but has now successfully renegotiated maturities on
its long-term debt obligations to foreign banks and in 1985 began a
financial and operational improvement program, including divestiture of
inappropriate subsidiaries.



-9-
The Maritime Subsector
34.      Madagascar depends on shipping for nearly all its foreign trade.
Most high-value general cargo moves by regularly scheduled liner services
and conference linos; the conference between Europe and the Indian Ocean is
the most important. This conference, CIHACOREM, includes the Societe
Malagasy des Transports Maritimes (SMTH). SMTM, the state-controlled
shipping line, operates two modern container ships and one other cargo
vessel used for inter-island trading.  Both SMTM and the other state-
controlled company, Compagnie Malgache de Navigation (CMN), are efficiently
operated. CMN operates two modern 5,300 dwt ships, and an older one of
similar size, serving trade between South*ia Africa and the Indian Ocean
islands, as well as six coasters.  There are about 25 small powered coastal
vessels, owned by private and public companies, as well as a number of
traditional sailing boats serving smaller ports. The parastatal oil
company SOLIM& operates three tankors and a number of lighters and barges.
35.      Coastal Shipping.  Coastal shipping performs vital functions of
distribution and collection of local produce, impor - and exports. In
1984, some 224,000 tons of dry cargo and 120,000 tons of petroleum products
were carried by the 14 vessels above 530 ewt.  Cargo handling rates in the
ports are generally low. The major part of the Ma',agasy coastal shipping
fleet is in poor condition. Ship ownera have had little incentive to
invest and limited opportunity to obtain foreign exchange, so that many
ships are old and poorly maintained. inclement weather increases the
difficulties of coastal shipping service, and further decreases ship
utilization. Peor port conditions have led to changes in coastal shipping
patterns, such as the use of small landing craft.
36.      Ports.  Sea conditions are quite different on the east and west
coasts, being protected in the west, 4tnd exposed to the Indian Ocean swells
in the east; these conditions affect both the type of vessels that can
operate safely, and the type and productivity of port operations. There
are no good storm shelters on the east coast. Toamasina and Antsiranana to
the north are the only deep water ports. Together with Vohemar, these
ports are the only ones which do not require lighterage. Two other
important east coast ports, Hanakara and Tolagnaro, are built in
unprotected sites, and rely on lighterage cperations. On the west coast
the most significant ports are Mahajanga, Toliara and Morondava.
37.      Madagascar's most important international port is Toamasina on the
east coast. In 1984, it handled 80 percent of total imports and 58 percent
of total exports.  The domination of ToamasinL is due to the fact that it
is the only deep water port with easy road and rail access to the capital
and the central plateau.  Other ports with importarnt direct export &nd/or
import traffic include Mahajanga (with 11 percent  £f total traffic),
Antsiranana, Toliara, St. Louis, Nosy Be and Moronda.va. Over 97 percent
of total traffic is concentrated in the ten ports included in the proposed
project.
38.      Port facilities and navigation aids are generally old and
dilapidated, suffering from inadequate maintenance. All ports suffer from
deterioration and advanced age cf wharves and buildings, to such an extent
that unless prompt repairs are made, the investments required will be much
higher due to total losses. There is a critical need for rehabilitation



- 10 -
and replacement of equipment. A particular problem relates to dredging.
Most dredgers are out of servic and hardly any dredging has been done in
the last ten years. Since a return to the dredging patterns of the 1960s
would be uneconomical, Government has now decided to carry out a reduced
dredging program in Manakara; minor dredging will be carried out as
necessary elsewhere.
39. Ports Rehabilitation Program. The combination of dilapidated port and
navigation facilities, inefficient operating procedures, difficult physical
conditions and worn-out coastal ships gives Madagascar costly and
unreliable shipping. It is a burden on the economy in general and is
particularly serious for many communities whose main transport links are by
sea, including several of Madagascar's export crop areas. In view of the
need for port rehabilitation, the Government in 1982 asked the Fonds d'Aide
et Cooperation of France (FAC) to finance a Study of Ports and Shipping:
(i) to develop a program to rehabilitate and maintain Madagascar's ports;
(li) to improve coastal shipping; and (iii) to collect relevant port and
traffic statistics to be used as a basis for a sector investment plan. In
carrying out this study, consultants evaluated alternative ways to meet the
transport needs of the coastal regions and recommended priorities for port
rehabilitation. The study recommended in December 1983 that the Government
rationalize and streamline institutional arrangements, establish improved
accounting and financial procedures for all ports, and employ specialists
to design effective navigational aids. In 1984, the Bank concluded that
the study was a good basis for a port rehabilitation p-ogram and, at the
request of Government, agreed to finance preparation and technical
assistance with a PPF advance. Project preparation was also financed by
FAC and by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United
Kingdom (for navigational aids).
40.      Port Institutions.  The most difficult problems facing the
Madagascar ports subsector are institutional weaknesses. Until 1985, the
port subsector was administered by three ministries: Transport, Supply and
Tourism (MTRT), Public Works (MTP), and the Ministry of Finance. While the
administration of the ports and the planning of new investments were under
the supervision of MTRT, execution and infrastructure were supervised by
MTP. Navigation aids were the responsibility of MTP, yet means of
transport to them were provided by MTRT. There was little coordination
between the ministries, neither of which had large enough budgets.
41.      Following the Ports and Shipping Study, Government reorganized the
port sector in February 1985. The main objectives of the reorganization
are: (i) establishment of clear sector authority in the MTRT; (ii)
reinforcement of local port administrations; (iii) clear definition of
operational objectives; (iv) clear lines of authority; and (v) allowing
each port the means to attain its objectives. The reorganization gave full
responsibility for ports and maritime transport to MTRT's Director of Civil
Aviation, Merchant Marine, and Meteorology (DAC). DAC now has four marine
departments: (i) Seaways - dealing with dredging, navigation aids, and
hydrography; (ii) Merchant Marine - dealing with maritime transport and
supervising Malagasy shipping lines; (iii) Port Authorities - responsible
for Harbor Masters; and (iv) Port Services - in charge of port operations
(except at Toamasina), contracts, and finances. Port Authority functions
at Toamasina are delegated to the Societe d'Exploitation du Port de



- 11 -
Toamasina (SEPT). Four provincial departments are responsible for
coordinating each coastal region. Stevedoring and cargo handling
activities are contracted to a private firm or consortium under concession
agreements for each port.
42.      Port of Toamasina.  SEPT is responsible for services to ships,
port infrastructure and other activities. It is autonomous but subject to
the supervision of MTRT and the Ministry of Finance. The port has suffered
from poor productivity and frequent damage to cargo, resulting in
considerably higher international shipping rates to Toamasina than to
similarly located ports. Causes can be reduced to: (i) lack of
competition; (ii) job tenure and poor labor motivation; (iii) strong
unions; (iv) inadequate equipment; and (v) inefficient management. In
consultation with IDA and other donors and with the help of consultants,
SEPT has now prepared and adopted an Action Plan to overcome these
problems. A new General Manager was appointed in April 1986, with strong
backing by Government and a clear mandate to turn SEPT around.
Improvements were visible a few weeks later: tighter discipline, improved
morale, and the observance of working hours. SEPT's commitment to
implement the Action Plan is the basis for the present project.
43.      The Action Plan includes divestiture of non-port related
activities, renewal of entire upper management, training of staff,
reduction in staff, new tariff and budgeting systems, improvement of
maintenance, and development of an incentive system to motivate stevedores.
It provides numerical, physical and financial targets and performance
indicators, together with programs for investment, introduction of reforms
and ne-w systems. Execution of the Plan will be closely monitored by
Government with technical assistance under the project, and the performance
targets will be reviewed and updated annually with IDA.
44.      The cyclone that struck Toamasina in March 1986 (Honorinina)
caused serious damage to the breakwater and to Pier C. The Pier C repairs
have been included in the present project, while the more urgent breakwater
repairs were included in the cyclone rehabilitation operation (para. 19
above) and are now in progress. Other infrastructure works required at
Toamasina include paving of rolling surfaces and container handling yards,
since container handling, which has increased steeply, represents a good
opportunity to improve productivity and to reduce shipping costs overall.
These relatively minor investments, together with technical assistance and
training, will provide the necessary support for the SEPT Action Plan.
Government Policy and Planning
45.      The Transport Sector and Planning.  With support under the Sixth
Highway Project of 1982, Government has been developing a coherent
transport planning process. This complements the more general work on
public investment and expenditure programming in which it is engaged with
IDA participation.  Transport planning policy goals are to provide
transport at lower cost and to reduce regional .solation through
rehabilitation of transport infrastructure. IDA agrees with these general
objectives.   A priority "Economic Road Network" of about 10,000 km was
designated in 1982, which formed the basis for the rehabilitation and
maintenance components of the Sixth Highway Project. The Government



- 12 -
subsequently prepared and refined an overall Public Investment Program,
containing an important transport sector component, which has been reviewed
with the Bank and was presented to Consultative Group meetings in 1984 and
1986. A Directorate of Transport Planning was set up in MTRT in 1984 with
technical support from French aid and IDA (under Sixth Highways). The
Directorate is preparing a National Transport Plan, a draft of which has
been reviewed with the Bank and which will be presented for Government
ratification by March 1987. The Directorate has completed several detailed
studies concerning tariff policy, origin-destination of road traffic,
relation between road transport costs and tariffs, and port services in
northeast Madagascar.
46.      The Transport Plan is expected to have a strong emphasis on road
rehabilitation and appears realistic, so that it should prevent recurrence
of the experience of 1984 and 1985, when less than half the investments
originally planned were made, mainly because of budget cuts. It will seek
(i) to coordinate and plan transport services and pricing; (ii) to
introduce competition between different transport modes and between
different operators of a given type of transport to improve quality of
service; (iii) to reorganize training; (iv) to rehabilitate transport
companies by importing sufficient quantities of spare parts, providing
technical assistance where necessary, and restructuring parastatals; and
(v) to replace obsolete transport material. A separate issue is the
Pangalanes Canal rehabilitation project, financed by the African
Development Bank. While the general project objectives are reasonable, the
assumptions underlying the economic justification now seem optimistic, and
there is a risk of cost overrun. IDA and the AfDB are discussing with
Government how to keep investment and operating costs to a minimum.
Bank Group Role in Transport
47.      Bank involvement in the transport sector in Madagascar is
substantial. Between 1974 and 1986, the Bank supported ten transport
projects with a Bank loan and IDA credits totaling nearly US$190 million,
six in highways, one in ports, and three in railways. The Bank has and
should continue to play a critical role in improving the institutional
capacity and policy framework for the sector. A Trarsport Sector
Memorandum (Report No. 4057) was prepared in 1982-3.
48.      The first port project (Credit 200-MAG, US$9.6 million, 1970)
provided for extension of Toamasina Port, creation of the Toamasina Port
Authority, and technical assistance. PPAR No. 2299, dated December 22,
1978, concluded that: (i) the physical objectives of the project were
satisfactorily met; (ii) the low economic return of 7 percent was due to
lack of traffic growth resulting from adverse economic and political
conditions unforeseen at the time of the appraisal; and (iii) although
technical assistance for institution building did not achieve satisfactory
results initially, partly because the expatriate experts chosen performed
poorly, some progress was made in improving Port Authority management.
These achievements, however, were short-lived due to economic
deterioration, weak management, and labor problems.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.      Following review of the Transport Sector Memorandum (Report No.
4057-MAG) in 1983, and in the context of the National Transport Plan now
being prepared, the Government asked the Bank to continue to support
rehabilitation of the priority parts of the transport sector, by further
support for road and railway maintenance and by support for port
rehabilitation. Accordingly, a credit for a third Railways Project (Credit
No. 1694-MAG) was approved by the Board in May 1986, and a seventh Highway
Project is being prepared. Based on the Ports and Shipping Study and
supported by other studies and technical assistance financed by France, the
United Kingdom and a PPF advance, the present project was prepared between
1984 and 1986. Negotiations were held in October 1986; the Madagascar
delegation was headed by the Minister of Transport, Supply and Tourism,
Mr. Joseph Bedo. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6294-MAG) is being
distributed separately. The main features of the credit and project are
given in the summary at the beginning of this Report and in Annex III, and
a map showing the transport system and the project ports is attached (No.
19595).
Project Oblectives
50.      The overall purpose of the proposed project is to rehabilitate
selectively the physical infrastructure and equipment of ten ports,
primarily to reduce overall transport coste to the users of shipping
services. These ports account for about 97 percent of the port traffic in
the country in 1984. Secondly, the project aims to develop the
institutional capacity to manage and maintain efficiently the ports
subsector and its restored assets. Thirdly, it aims to reduce delays and
safety hazards to navigation. Fourthly, it is intended to establish full
cost recovery for the ports sub-sector. These objectives are consistent
with the Bank's sector strategy formulated in the 1983 Transport Sector
Memorandum.
Project Scope
51.      The proposed project includes the ports of Toamasina, Manakara,
Tolagnaro, Toliara, Vohemar, Morondava, Mahajanga, Nosy Be, Antsiranana and
Port St. Louis. It will include the following components: (i) rehabilita-
tion of port infrastructure (repair and minor construction of quays,
slipways, buildings and utilities); (ii) modifications and improvements to
cargo handling (procurement of new cargo-handling equipment, floating
craft, spare parts and materials); (iii) strengthening services to the
shipping sector (dredging at Manakara, Toliara and Mahajanga; navigation
aids and hydrographic survey capability; spare parts); and (iv)
institutional development and reform (technical support to improve
management and training for about 500 staff).



- 14 -
Project Description
52.      Rehabilitation of Ports Infrastructure.  With the exception of
Antisiranana and Tolagnaro, all the ports included in the project need
urgent repairs to the waterfront structures, such as concrete encasement of
sheetpile walls, sealing of fill behind concrete blocks, replacement of
pier beam., installation of fenders, and repairs to the pier and trestle
surfaces. A new quay and earthfill would be the most economic solution at
Vohemar; a new slipway is required at Manakara, and a new ramp at
Mahajanga.
53.      In most ports cargo handling operations are seriously affected by
the poor condition of storage yards, which damages equipment and lowers
productivity. Thus, the project includes preparation and paving of
approximately 140,000 m2 in eight ports, as well as construction of some
truck loading and unloading ramps. Generally, the port buildings are in
acceptable condition, but the project includes an administration building
at Toliara and maintenance sheds at Toamasina. Lighting, drainage, and
water and electric distribution will be rehabilitated at Toamasina, Toliara
and Tolagnaro.
54.      Modifications and Improvements to Cargo Handling.  Generally, due
to aging, poor maintenance, bad rolling surfaces and lack of spare parts,
cargo-handling equipment in all ports under consideration is in very poor
condition, idle, or completely out of service. The project includes:
(a) basic port equipment consisting of: (i) four tire-mounted 30-
ton container cranes; (ii) 22 25-ton trucks; (iii) four 90-HP
tractors; (iv) two small mobile cranes; (v) one 25 ton and
135-ton forklifts and (vi) a four-wheel drive vehicle;
(b) the reconstruction of the chromite ore conveyor system at
Toamasina; and
(c) spare parts, tools and materials.
55.      Floating Craft.  Of the ten ports included in the project, seven
require lighterage, and all require smaller craft. The general condition
of the floating craft, with the exception of some work boats, is very poor;
many cannot be rehabilitated. The project provides 14 barges ranging from
80 to 150 tons, two 160-HP tugs, two 60-ton landing craft and one line-
handling boat.
56.      Services to the Shipping Sector.  Siltation has been a problem in
Mahajanga and Manakara and, to a lesser degree, in Toliara and Tolagnaro.
The project provides for bottom cleaning in Mahajanga, a small suction pump
to be mounted on a pontoon for use in Toliara and Tolagnaro, and the
rehabilitation of dredging equipment at Manakara.. This represents a least-
cost solution taking into account the costs of dredging, cargo
handling and lighterage and shipping.



- 15 -
57.      Madagascar's lights, lighthouses, buoys and beacons have been
seriously neglected, to the extent of endangering coastal and international
shipping and neglecting compliance with international regulations.
Similarly, charting, hydrographic surveys and weather service have been
disregarded. The project provides new buoys, solar-powered lights,
lighthouse repairs, spare parts, radio and telephone communication systems,
maintenance equipment and a launch.
58.      The project provides foreign exchange for the coastal shipping
companies and cargo handling companies in the ports, which are largely
private, to enable them to buy spare parts and complementary equipment.
The counterpart funds will be credited to the ports budget (see para. 67
below).
59.      Institutional Development and Reform.  The project provides 274
staff-months of technical support: (i) a ports advisor for technical and
project implementation assistance, during five years; (ii) maintenance and
cargo handling experts, during five years; (iii) one year's assistance by a
dredging expert, to assure continued operation of the dredging program and
development of dredging personnel; (iv) one- to two-year missions by
experts in accounting, hydrography and navigation aids; and (v) missions of
short duration, in specific assignments such as follow-up of the
implementation of the SEPT Action Plan (see paras. 42 and 43 above) and
training in procurement procedures.
60.      The project will include a comprehensive training program: (i) a
training specialist for two years; (ii) scholarships and overseas training
for about 60 upper and middle level staff; (iii) training materials such as
projectors, books and furniture; and (iv) training of 500 staff in port
operations, dredging, navigation aids and hydrographic surveys.
Cost Estimates
61.      The total estimated project cost is US$42.1 million, including
contingencies and local taxes. The foreign exchange cost is US$28.6
million, or about 68 percent of total. Local taxes and duties, included in
the estimates, amount to US$7.3 million. Physical contingencies were
calculated at 10 percent of base costs. Price escalation for foreign and
local costs is based on projected increases in international dollar prices
of 7.2 percent p.a. in 1986, 6.8 percent p.a. in 1987 and 1988, 7.0 percent
p.a. in 1989, 7.1 percent p.a. in 1990, and 4.0 percent thereafter. Cost
estimates for equipment are based on final engineering; detailed
engineering for civil works, as well as bid documents for civil works,
equipment and navigation aids, have been substantially completed, with
financing by France and the United Kingdom and by IDA under a PPF advance.
Financing Plan
62.      Project expenditures net of taxes and duties (US$34.8 million
equivalent) would be financed by external donors and by local sources,
including Government, cargo handling companies and SEPT. External sources



- 16 -
would finance nearly 90 percent of project costs, including local costs of
US$2.4 million to be financed by IDA. In view of Madagascar's balance of
payments and budgetary constraints, this level of local cast financing is
appropriate. The proposed financing plan, in million US dollars, is:
Donor                   Local        Foreian          Total
IDA                      2.4           13.6            16.0
France (CCCE)                           10.0           10.0
Germany (KfW)                           2.6             2.6
France (FAC)                            2.3             2.3
United Kingdom (ODA)                    0.1             0.1
Government, SEPT and    3.8                             3.8
local beneficiaries
Total                    6.2           28.6            34.8
Financing will be parallel.  The US$1 million PPF advance to finance part
of project preparation costs would be refinanced by the IDA credit.
Government would onlend US$2.7 million to SEPT on the following terms:
(i) final maturity of 20 years; (i$) six years' grace; (iii) interest rate
of 9.1 percent p.a.; (iv) commitment fee of 0.75 percent on the undisbursed
portion of the loan; and (v) borrower to assume the foreign exchange risk.
Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
63.      The project would be implemented by HTRT, who would be the main
executing agency, and by SEPT, who would be responsible for all investments
in Toamasina. Technical assistance in project implementation will be
provided for both MTRT and SEPT. The project is expected to start in early
1987, and to be completed by September 30, 1992. MTRT's recent
reorganization provides a coherent framework for the technical assistance
component and to carry out future projects. SEPT has carried out other
projects successfully and is expected to develop sufficient capability to
implement its part of the project with the technical assistance provided.
Government and SEPT will prepare quarterly reports of their performance
based on agreed indicators. Targets will be revised annually, in
consultation with IDA, to reflect the performance attained during the
previous year.
Procurement
64.         Civil works contracts, equipment, floating craft, spare parts
and materials financed by IDA would be procured by ICB. Items costing no
more than US$50,000 equivalent, and not exceeding US$1.0 million in the
aggregate, would be procured by international and local shopping on the
basis of at least three quotations from different sources. Proprietary
spare parts, which are estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million in total,
would be procured by direct contracting after negotiations. Cargo handling
companies and shipowners would procure directly using their normal methods,
an amount estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million. All contracts above
US$50,000 would be submitted for prior review by IDA. Training would be
provided under terms satisfactory to IDA. A procurement table is provided
as Annex IV.



^ 17 -
Disbursements
65.      IDA credit funds would be disbursed on the following basis: (i)
equipment, spare parts, tools, materials, and floating craft; 100Z of
foreign and 601 of local expenditures; (ii) civil works: 100% of foreign
and 752 of local expenditures; (iii) consulting services: 1002 of foreign
and 802 of local expenditures; and (iv) training services and fellowships:
10OZ of foreign and 602 of local expenditures. All claims would be fully
documented, except those relating to any contract or training activity
whose value is less than US$20,000 that would be submitted under a
statement of expenditures. Documentation for these claims would be held at
MTRT and SEPT, available for inspection by JDA. In order to expedite
disbursements, MTRT and SEPT, on terms acceptable to IDA, would each open a
Special Account in foreign currency at a commercial bank; IDA would deposit
into each account an initial amount of foreign currency equivalent to
US$600,000 for HTRT and US$400,000 for SEPT. The accounts would be
replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications. These applications
would also comprise a statement of account movements since the last
application, and a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the
original amount deposited less payments for which the application is
submitted.
Financial Objectives
66.      The main financial objectives of the proposed project are to
establish financial viability and full cost recovery both for the Port of
Toamasina and the port sub-sector as a whole. For the port of Toamasina,
the implementation of SEPT's Action Plan, in agreement with IDA, is
expected to achieve these objectives. In accordance with the Action Plan,
a full audit of SEPT's 1984 and 1985 accounts was carried out during
project preparation. On the basis of the audit findings, SEPT has drawn
up, with the help of financial consultants, a draft financial restructuring
plan, which has been discussed with IDA. Agreement by Government to a plan
acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness of the credit. SEPT and
the Government will take all steps necessary to ensure that from 19B8 on
its operating revenues will exceed total operating expenses, defined to
include administrative and maintenance charges, depreciation on revalued
assets, and interest on borrowing. SEPT increased tariffs by 50 percent in
October 1986, which should allow it to comply with this target.
67.      The MTRT prepares an annual "Ports Budget" of operating
expenditures, investments and receipts for the 17 main ports. The
Government increased port tariffs in October 1986 by an average of about 40
percent. By December 19B7, in consultation with IDA, it will again revise
the structure and level of all port-related tariffs and the concession
agreements with the cargo handling companies, and subsequently take
whatever measures may prove necessary to ensure by 1988 a sufficient
current surplus on the Ports Budget to provide the recovery of all costs
including maintenance and depreciation, and a capital charge. The
concession fees would be calculated so as to enable private operators to
earn a reasonable after-tax return on their investment.
68.      In order to ensure the achievement of the project financial
objectives, and to contribute to the rational use of resources, neither
SEPT nor the Government will invest in items costing more than US$50,000 in
the ports sub-sector without consultation with IDA (for SEPT, without IDA's
approval).



- 18 -
69.      Within six months of the end of each fiscal year, SEPT will submit
to IDA its financial statements audited by independent auditors, acceptable
to IDA. The Government will also submit audited consolidating statements
for the Ports Budget. Finally, within six months of the closing date the
Government and SEPT will prepare completion reports.
Ecological and Demographic Impact
70.      None of the proposed works will significantly affect the present
ecology of Madagascar: maintenance dredging of less than 20,000 m3lyear
will be much less than was done through the 1960s with no ill effects.
Dredging spoils will be disposed of at landfill sites at all locations.
There will be no changes in demographic distribution as a consequence of
the project.
Proiect Benefits and Risks
71.      The proposed project aims to reduce the cost of coastal and
international shipping and to facilitate exports through improved cargo
handling. The main quantified direct result of port improvements is
improved ship utilization. Improved cargo handling in Toamasina will
reduce costs of both imports and exports. Safety and ship utilization will
be improved by rehabilitation of navigation aids. Furthermore, the project
aims to provide Madagascar with the capacity to prevent the recurrence of
past problems. The expected result of the largest part of the project is a
reduction in final transport costs to users, which not only includes
payments to ship owners for their services but also expenditures such as
insurance and interest for capital tied up in goods while in transit.
72.      MTRT, with the assistance of consultants financed under PPF,
prepared traffic forecasts under different economic growth assumptions.
The most conservative of these forecasts has been adopted for the economic
evaluation of the project. The overall estimated economic rate of return
is 29 percent. Rates of return for the individual ports range between 19
and 53 percent. Sensitivity analysis shows that the different project
components remain justified with higher costs or lower traffic growth. For
the project as a whole, a decrease in benefits of 20 percent lowers the
return to 22 percent, while a 10 percent cost increase would lower it to
26 percent.
73.      The main project risk relates to possible poor performance by
institutions concerned with project implemention. Most seriously, the
Toamasina component is dependent on continued commitment by SEPT and the
Government to the Action Plan. Considerable efforts have been made in
proje-zt design to overcome these limitations, including limiting vulnerable
project components such as extensive dredging, and by providing a
substantial amount of technical assistance.



- 19 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
November 25, 1986



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR: ECOUC L'OICATORS
GROSS DOaESIC PFR=C If 1985                         Annual Rte of  owth
USS HIn    2       1970-78   197F-85
CDP at Market Price                        Z344      10o.0    n-.1      - 0.5
ntsuption                                  2149      91.7      -0.7        0.1
- Private                                 (1831)    78.1    (-1.9)    -(0.5)
- Eiblic                                   ( 318)     13.6    (-0.1)      (1.8)
(koas Domstlic Inacuant                     335       14.3     -4.4     - 5.3
OArrent Account Ba=                       - 258    -10.6       -           -
Expor of Goods, NFS                         354      15.1      -0.7     - 8.0
Tmpors of Goods, NFS                        494      21.1     -6.2      - 9.4
OUrPUr LABOR ENROE AND PRWCDIVMTY EN 1984
Valu adderA     Lir  Force         Va per Worker
U LSMlt     %     _0                     1) US$
Agriculture                                1,007.6   42.3  4,356         88.1       231.3
Induswry                                    371.1   15.6    135            2.7    2,749.2
Services                                   1,004.2   42.1    454          9.2    2,211.8
Toa1/hmerage                               2,382.9  100.0  4,945         1(1G0      .42.0
mOERMEr FUWACE
Central Gvernrent
MG Bln              X o- GDP
1985    1982      1983      1984        1985
Orrent Receipts                             251.5   15.2       15.2       17.7       16.2
Qtlnt Etxpenditures                         213.5   16.1       14.2       14.4       13 A
QSrrent Deficit                              37.9   -0.9       1ID        3.3         2.4
Capital E,cperdiceres                        109.5    7.5       7.2        7.8        7.1
Foreign Financrg(net)                        48.1    5.1        3.8       2.7         3.1
MOMECREDIT, AD PRICES
1981    1982      1983      1984        1985
(Billion- REOutstradir at the Erd of the 1Mriod)
Money ad Qiasti me                          250.0  276.0    271.5        321.0      361.6
Bark (kedLit to Public Sector               238.0  269.0    307.0       338.0       357.4
Bank Qteit to State Enterprises              178.7  214.5    262.4       334.0      392.3
and Private Sectos
Perlentage or lde  Nturbers
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             30.7   27.7      22.2       23.4       23.3
MP krice Deflator(1970-100)                 313.7  403.9    490.3       540.5       601.0
niral pentae chages in:
GP Price Deflator                          25.2   28.6       21.5       10.2       11.2
Bank (kedit to Coverraenr                  33.0   13.7       14.3      10.1         5.7
Bank Cedit to Other SecwriU                10      20        22.3      27.3        17.5
.)bce: ALl comnersiorr w dollars in this cable are ar the average exchaW  rare prevaiLirg durirg che period
covered.
1. At mrwket prices
2. The series an Cedic to th Private Sector ard State Enterprises has been revised to bein with  The
proposed progran to show gross credit outstandirg,irnludiig provisions tr loan losses.
3. Private Sector and State Enterises.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ALCEOF PAlMENS
1982     1983      19841     19851
EKprts of gSods & N.F.S.      380.2    356.4    388.7    353.6
biports of goods & N.F.S.     651.7    550.7    502.5    493.4
Pesource Pale                -271.5   -194.3   -113.8   -139.8
Factor hmome, Not             -99.0   -112.6   -133.5   -133.1
Private Tansfers, Net          -1.4     -1.2       3.5      L5.0
Osrent Aco.rt Blce           -371.9   -30B.1   -243.8   -257.9
Officl Utrequited Transfers  72.3        60.8     67.8      68.1
Not PnrXt, Boma121.3    196.8    159.6    165.4
DlsbuEsemsrts                 209.9    193.6    I2.R    160.7
Awrtizatinn                  -181.3   -195.7   -130.2   -149.2
Debt Belie                     92.7    198.9    169.0    153.9
Other Capital (net)2          186.9      36.5      43.9      4.6
2!Mare in Peseves              -8.6      14.0    -25.2      19.8
(increase - -)
IRate of exchaq              1982      1983      1984     1985
US$1.O  - Et;                 349.74   430.45    576.60    662.48
EMG1 - US$                    0.002    0.0023    0.0017    D.0015
/L Provisional estiimtes
/2 Incxle  net 1MF credit, state arxl rivate shlrt term capital, arrears
ard consolidat 8 arrears, and errors ard CZoissios.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
:ORHANDISE ECIS (AVE   198 - 85)                    MADAGASCAR
UJS$ mh     X
Coffee                         129.7     38.6
Abnilla                        39.7      11.8
Cloves                         46.0      13.7
Pishzir  products              20         6.0
Ocher cenxoities              100.6      29.9
Total                         336       1OM.o
WWLDBT, ,D        3 1.19851 
Public Debt, Tncl.guaranteed           29.9
bn-Qwaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstardirg & Disbursed          2309.9
DEBr sEIcE RArio FR 1985/4
Public Debt, rwl. guarantee:d/5          47.6
II DiyLI)1N, Dec.31, 1985
aS M iMAs
outstarg S DIsburs                       270      308.3
lJrdisburse.                                      191.7
Otstaidirg incl. Udisbrsed               27.0    500.0
/3 Paris Club greal to resddule about $ 120 million in Marc 1984;
or%don Club, $195 milflon in May 1984.
/4 Debt service payWnuts as % of goods ad services
J5 After effects of debt reschedulirg arrangements and ircludIig pannts
of arreares ard 1MF rqeprchases



- 23 - , >                               ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OP R4TIQj£
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUB4f1,jtL-' MADAGASCAR
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of Saptember 30, k98611
Loan or
Credit
Number     Year   Borrower    Purpose                       Bank      IDAI   Undisbursed
-      (US $ Millions)------
Fifteen Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                                    32.57  181.43         --
CR  817-MAG  1C18   Madagascar  Andekoleka Hydroelectric               40.602       0.90
CR  881-MAG  ±979   Madagascar  Hangoky - Agriculture                  12.00        1.92
CR 1002-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation.                      20.50        1.51
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank * BTM                 11.50        1.80
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antanansrivo T.A.              2.30        0.57
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting & Audit                     11.50        1.70
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                            20.00        6.60
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II                   15.00        9.90
CR 1249-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions                5.70        0.92
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Taimiroro Heavy 02l Exploration        11.50        4.48
CR 1337-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Lac Alaotra                            18.00       13.65
CR 1391-MAG  1983   Madagascar  SLxth Highway                          25.00        8.80
CR.F004-MAG  1983   ----    -----'' ---- ---                           20.00        9.00
CR 1433-MAG  1983   Madagascar  Cotton Development                      7.90        1.78
CR.F008-MAG  1093   -------         "       ' -- " ------               9.90        5.20
CR.F1497-MAG 1983   Madagascar  Urban                                  12.80       12.87
CR 1526-HAG  1984   Madagascar  Cyclone Rehabilitation                 15.00        1.6Sr
CR 1541-MAG  1985   Madagascar  Industrial Assistance                  40.00       28.40
CR.A0070-MAG 1985   Madagascar  Industrial Assistance (SFA)            20.00       15.60
CR 1589-MAG  1985   Madagascar  Irrigation Rehabilitation              12.00       14.08
CR 1661-MAG3 1986   Madagascar  Accounting & Mgtmt Training            10.30       10.30
CR 1694-MAG3 1986   Madagascar  Third Railway                          12.00       12.00
CR 1709-MAG3 1986   Madagascar  Second Ag. Institutions                10.00       10.00
CR 1691-MAG3 1956   Madagascar  Ag. Sector Adjust. Credit              20.00       20.00
CR A16-MAG3  1986   Madagascar   "       '              Ii             33.00       33.00
CR 1526-MAG  1986   Madagascar  Cyclone Supplemen-al                   10.00       10.00
TOTAL                                     32.i7  607.93     236.63
of which has beer. repaid               6.37    4.37
TOTAL now outstanding                     26,20  603.56
Amount sold
of which has been repaid               --        6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA           26.20  597.16
TOTAL undisbursed                                           236.63
11 The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Ditectors on April 3G and
October 31.
21 Including a supplemental credit of US$ 10 million of 1980.
31 Not yet effective



- 24 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
Port Rehabilitation Prolect
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2 years
(b) Preparation by: MTRT and SEPT, assisted by consultants
financed by France, the United Kingdom and IDA
(c) Initial discussions with IDA: May 1984
(d) Appraisal Mission: December 1985
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: by March 31, 19B7
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
Financing of technical assistance to MTRT & SEPT to develop
iaplementation capacity.
III. Special Conditions
1. The Government will:
a.   Revise by December 31, 1987, after review with IDA, the
structure and level of port tariffs and concession agreements
with port cargo-handling companies, and take other necessary
steps, to ensure that by 1988 revenues will provide for
recovery of sub-sector costs, including maintenance, a
capital charge, and depreciation on revalued assets;
b.   Not make any new investment in the port sub-sector costing
the equivalent of more than $50,000, without prior
consultation with IDA;
c.   Submit to IDA project accounts, independently audited, within
six months of the end of each fiscal year;
d.   Submit to IDA consolidated statements of the Ports Budget,
audited by the Government auditor, within six months of the
end of each fiscal year, together with auditors' opinion on
compliance with the cost-recovery covenant.



- 25 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
2. SEPT will:
a.   Take steps necessary to ensure that by 1988 its revenues will
cover its operating costs, including administration, loan
service, depreciation on revalued assets and maintenance;
b.   Submit to IDA independently audited accounts within six
months of the end of each fiscal year;
c.   Not undertake any investment in excess of US$300,000 without
consent of IDA.
3. The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
a.   Execution of agreements with all cofinancing agencies;
b.   Execution of the 3ubsidiary Loan Agreement; and
c.   Adoption by SEPT and Government of a financial restructuring
plan acceptable to IDA.



- 26 -                             Annex IV
HADAGASCAR
Ports Rehabilitation Project
Procurement Arrangements
- Procurement Method -
rCB     Other       N.A.       Total
(US$ millions)
(a)  Civil Works
Quays, slipways, trestle.          3.3                              3.3
Yard.                              3.1                              3.1
Buildings                          0.2                             0.2
Utilities                          1.5        0.0        0.0        1.5
8.1       0.0        0.0        8.1
(5.0)                           (5.0)
(b)  Equipment
Port and cargo handling            1.0        4.3        0.0       5.3
1.0       4.3        0.0        5.3
(0.5)     (0.5)                 (1.0)
(c)  Floating craft
For lighterage                     0.0        2.3        0.0       2.3
For dredging                       1.0        1.4        0.0       2.4
1.0       3.7        0.0        4.7
(0.5)     (0.5)                 (1.0)
(d) Spare parts and materials
For port equipment                 4.0        4.1        0.0       8.1
For coastal shipping               0.0        1.6        0.0        1.6
4.0       5.7        0.0        9.7
(2.0)     (2.0)                 (4.0)
(e)  Navigation aids                    3.3        0.0        0.0       3.3
3.3       0.0        0.0        3.3
( 1.0)                          (1.0)
(f) Consulting services
Technical support                  0.0        0.0       3.8        3.8
Engineering supervision            0.0        0.0       3.3        3.3
0.0       0.0        7.1        7.1
(2.0)     (2.0)
(g)  Training                           0.0        0.0        3.8       3.8
0.0       0.0        3.8        3.8
(2.0)     (2.0)
Total                             17.4       13.7       10.9      42.0
(9.0)     (3.0)      (4.0)    (16.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



MAP SECTION



- - *r          -              -. 18RD 1D53l;
MADAGASCAR
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
4-. ouu4 t
_   %aw9 w § CAP                                               G    2        A 
4.       _ N Iwoj.otpo wu
.,       ,                                                       So LGI
IF                                                                                                                 V4Nmwaw4we,4-V4,n
0Md,,,~~~~~~A.u,,
*1w, _
A~~~~~~p.us~~~~~~~ ~                          /I                         t§b
t                 5r>zat^4-§-    g^"fraw   >laly                     \        l~_  4-
~~~ Xlndwl                          ° --                                               OOI
A.p-44                          I '
MnintaoOtW                       4            CmtN>lwldrazo~~Mn.qke,
\>               Arknaetf, AtdR49                 ;5 -Amv
/            Son/rdo\                                         )     N lla
-1               Nea         S     i            /               /JV4
MS5¢_-                  4; M           n|*r f~~I 
1                         eoanso             61
e /
tolis/ l$    /             *-f          f3       Ar*oio.dt        i--_-    .-      -.-
t-_^2^//V"   ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~ v}.                                    PAIL3*O      30   MACiAAD
7        1 0 0_                                                                  _  s ,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ t
S-t~ ~~4 0o>                                    i,.:                               Qr 
_ w _s                                                                AFttC.^,~~~~~~~~~1w.wdw
__ _ __   __ * .   _   .            ...        -.*  _ .                  /  _ t>1X
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~OEEE  7



