OFF C!AL
LOAN NUMBER 1752 MAG
Project Agreement
(Port Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE D'EXPLOITATION DU PORT DE TOAMASINA
Dated                          ,1987


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1752 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       V    AAA                , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
SOCIETE D'EXPLOITATION DU PORT DE TOAMASINA (SEPT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SEPT
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SEPT, a part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to SEPT on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SEPT, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SEPT declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part II
thereof with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and port
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SEPT shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Part II of the Project.
Section 2.04. SEPT shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SEPT shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SEPT shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   SEPT shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SEPT of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SEPT
Section 3.01. SEPT shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and port practices under the supervision of a Directeur Gngral
with adequate qualification and experience and other qualified


﻿-3-
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SEPT shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and port utility practices.
Section 3.03. SEPT shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) SEPT shall implement the Action Plan,
agreed upon with the Association and shall not make substantial
amendments of such Action Plan without the prior approval of the
Association.
(b)   By June 30 of each year during execution of the
Project, SEPT shall review with the Association the progress made
in the implementation of the Action Plan and shall consult with
the Association on the content and scope of the Action Plan for
the following three-year period.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SEPT shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) SEPT shall:
i    have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently   applied,  by
independent    auditors    acceptable    to    the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after


﻿-4-
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SEPT shall, from time to time, take all such measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its port tariffs) as shall be required to produce,
for each of its fiscal years, starting in 1988 and thereafter,
gross revenues from all sources equivalent to not less than the
total operating expenses of SEPT.
(b) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, SEPT shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by SEPT and satisfactory to
the Association, review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the
requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall fur-
nish to the Association the results of such review upon its
completion.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "gross revenues from all sources " means
the sum of revenues from all sources related to
SEPT operations, net non-operating income and any
reductions in no-cash working capital.
(ii) The term "total operating expenses" means the sum
of all expenses related to SEPT's operations,
including maintenance and administration, depre-
ciation on periodically revalued assets and other
non-cash operating charges, interest and other
charges on debt (excluding interest financed under
a loan contract), repayment of loans (including
sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or
payment in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and
other cash distributions of surplus, increase in


﻿-5-
net working capital other than cash, and any other
cash outflows other than capital expenditures
related to SEPT's operations.
Section 4.03. SEPT shall not undertake any investment not
included in the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more without prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SEPT thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SEPT of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿-6-
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SEPT:
Sociftf d'Exploitation
du Port de Toamasina
B.P. 492
Toamasina
Madagascar
Telex:
55619
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SEPT may be taken or executed by the
Directeur Gfnfral or such other person or persons as the Direc-
teur Gfnfral shall designate in writing, and SEPT shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                 ),,I qA"    W"
ACkito~Regional Vice President
Ea tern and Southern Africa
SOCIETE D'EXPLOITATION DU PORT DE TOAMASINA
By
Aixthorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


