Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14513
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3293-ES)
MAY 19, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =    Colon (c)
US$1.0            =    c 8.78 (February 1994)
c 1.0             =    US$0.1139
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCR:        Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador
BFA:        Agricultural Development Bank
CACM:       Central American Common Market
CACT:       Central American Tariff Code
CEL:        National Electric Power Company
CEM:        Monetary Stabilization Bonds
CONAP:    National Privatization Commission
FMLN:       Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front
FOSAFFI:  Fund for the Restructuring and Recapitalization of the Financial System
FUSADES:  Salvadoran Foundation for Social and Economic Development
IDB:        Inter-American Development Bank
IMF:        International Monetary Fund
INAZUCAR: National Sugar Marketing Board
INCAFE:   National Coffee Marketing Board
NFSP:       Non-financial public sector
PCR:        Project Completion Report
SAL:        Structural Adjustment Loan
SIF:        Social Investment Fund
SSF:        Financial System Superintendency
USAID:      U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                      May 19, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on El Salvador
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3293-ES)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the El Salvador Structural
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3293-ES), prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This US$75 million loan (SAL I) supported the Government's 1989-94 Economic and Social
Development Program, which aimed at promoting economic growth and poverty alleviation through
export diversification, better fiscal policies and financial intermediation, and enhanced agricultural
productivity. This program had been presented by the Government to the Bank in mid-1989, at a
time when the country was still in the midst of a civil war and deep economic crisis.
The Bank was able to respond rapidly because its economic work had kept up-to-date with
conditions in the country. Notwithstanding a resurgence of fighting in late 1989, the appraisal
mission took place in October/November 1990. By then, the authorities had already started to
implement the major components of their program. The loan was approved in February 1991. It
included, in addition to the adjustment areas mentioned earlier, conditionality on social expenditures
and direct support for a poverty-oriented nutrition program.
Implementation was smooth and the loan was fully disbursed by June 1993, in line with the
original plan. Delays were encountered in meeting some detailed conditionality, but in most critical
economic areas compliance was good. A pilot food-stamp program, however, could not be
implemented because of a faulty design, and the Bank granted a waiver.
The main policy objectives of the operation were achieved. Foreign trade was liberalized,
nontraditional exports grew, the banking system was strengthened, tax revenues were boosted by
the introduction of a value-added tax and the currency was stabilized. With the restoration of
peace, economic growth has resumed. El Salvador has made remarkable progress in overcoming
the crisis while at the same time restructuring its economy. SAL I contributed to this recovery. It
provided support to a Government that had ownership of the reform program and was determined
to carry it out. The program outcome is rated as highly satisfactory, its institutional development
impact as substantial, and its sustainability as likely.
The quality of the PCR is very good. It is comprehensive and analytical, drawing valuable
lessons. Although it lacks an assessment of the poverty impact of the program and of agricultural
productivity trends, these topics have beerl analyzed by the region in other recent reports. An audit
is planned in conjunction with a follow-lip operation (SAL II).
Robert Picciotto
by Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their oMciai duties.
ILs contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizutlon.






EL SALVADOR
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3292-ES)
Table of Contents
PREFACE..
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .....................................  iii
Part I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Program Identity: ................................ 1
B.      Economic and Political Background ......................... 1
C. Loan Processing.                                                                               3
D.   The Adjustment Program: Objectives and Description.                                          5
E.  Program Design and Organization.                                                              8
F.      Program  Implementation and Monitoring ..................... 11
G.      Relationship with the Government's Stabilization Policies
and IMF Stand-By Arrangements .......................... 21
H.      Sustainability of the Program  ............................ 22
I.      Program  Results, Government Ownership, and Overall
Evaluation ........................................ 24
J.      Bank and Borrower Performance  .......................... 26
K.      Lessons Learned  .................................... 28
Part II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.      Global Overview .................................... 31
B.      Program  Design .................................... 33
C.      Government Ownership ................................ 36
D.      Performance and Results ............................... 37
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Loan Position .......................................... 39
Key Program  Data ....................................... 39
Cumulative Loan Disbursements ............................... 39
Staff Inputs ........................................... 40
Mission Data  .......................................... 40
Related Bank Loans ............                                                                  40
Statistical Tables (1 to 12c) ............................                                       41
ANNEX I: Status of SAL I Loan Conditionality ......................... 55






PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3293-ES)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL I) (Loan 3293-ES). SAL I, in the amount equivalent to US$75 million was approved by
the Board on February 12, 1991. The loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1993. The loan
was fully disbursed and the last disbursement made on June 28, 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Country Operations Division 2 (LA2C2) of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I, and Annex I)
and by the Borrower (Part II). The PCR was discussed with the Borrower and there were no
differences in views on the information and analysis presented in the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Loan
Agreement, relevant economic and sector documents, information in project files, and
discussions with Bank staff and Salvadoran officials during a project completion mission in
November 1993.
Page i






PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3293-ES)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Project Objectives. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) was designed to support the
Government's 1989-1994 Economic and Social Development Program, which focused on
economic recovery, adjustment, and maintenance of a consistent macroeconomic policy
framework. The objectives of the program were to: (i) improve incentives to stimulate savings
and investment in more efficient export-oriented and import-substituting activities; (ii) increase
tax enforcement capacity; (iii) improve the efficiency of financial intermediation; (iv) improve
productivity in the agricultural sector; and (v) prevent a deterioration in the nutritional status of
the poor during the adjustment process. The program aimed at promoting export growth and
diversification, a more efficient allocation of domestic resources, improved fiscal control, and
a reduction in absolute poverty. It was also expected to lead to improved creditworthiness, thus
facilitating access to external financing, needed for long-term sustainable growth. SAL I focused
on five principal areas: trade policy; fiscal policy; monetary policy and financial system reforms;
agricultural sector reforms; and social reform (Part I, paras. 17-18).
2.    Design and Implementation Experience. A clear conceptual foundation for the program
had been developed prior to the 1989 elections under the coordination of the economic research
group of FUSADES. In September 1989, the newly-elected Government approached the Bank
with a draft structural adjustment program and requested assistance for its implementation.
Thus, the key issues and the policy options for reform were broadly shared and understood by
both parties at the outset. SAL I was thus appropriately timed in terms of the need for reforms
and the Government's willingness to adopt the necessary measures (Part I, para. 28).
3.    Overall, the focus, scope and design of SAL I were appropriate for the objectives to be
achieved. The focus of SAL I was suitable and its scope was very comprehensive and well
balanced. The project was well prepared and the Govemment's institutional capacity and the
available technical assistance, provided by other international and bilateral institutions, were
suitable to the goals of the program, except perhaps in the case of the nutritional component
(Part I, para. 29).
Page iii



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
4.    Prior to Board presentation and in fact even before loan appraisal, the Government
implemented a sizeable number of policy adjustments and reforms. Progress in Government
compliance with SAL I conditionality was very satisfactory; most of the conditions were fully
met with no significant delays, three were substantially met, and only one technical waiver was
required (Part I, paras. 35-36, 43, 54).
5.    The following limitations in design and implementation of the program were noted:
*     Early analysis of the legal changes required to comply with some of the policy reforms
may have averted implementation delays in the removal of trade barriers and in the
divestiture of the assets of the agricultural marketing boards (Part I, paras. 30, 68-70).
*     The Bank should have been more attentive to the Borrower's lack of familiarity with
design, implementation, and supporting procedures of structural adjustment loans when
preparing the policy matrix. Perhaps more time should have been spent with the
Government in reviewing the steps that were necessary to meet the conditionality (Part
I, para. 30).
More consultation with representatives from other sectors of the Government, such as
the decentralized agencies and private sector groups, could have further enhanced the
implementation of the program (Part I, para. 30).
-     Although the objectives of the nutritional program were well integrated with those of
SAL I, its implementation under the framework of the adjustment program was
inappropriate. The inclusion of the fortified cookies, weaning formula, and food coupon
projects detracted attention from the supervision and implementation of the structural
adjustment measures and eventually resulted in the issuance of a waiver for non-
compliance with the food coupon project (Part I, para. 31).
*     With hindsight, the application of an explicit formula for determining interest rates was
not the appropriate adjustment instrument in view of the large influx of capital from
private remittances (Part I, para. 32).
*     The restructuring and strengthening of the Banking Superintendency (SSF) should have
been explicitly incorporated as part of loan conditionality in all three tranches in order
to avoid delays and sequencing issues in overall financial sector reform (Part I, paras.
33 and 51).
6.    Notwithstanding these limitations, the timing of the loan was extremely appropriate and
any shortcomings in design and implementation must be balanced with the urgency to support
the Government's adjustment efforts.   First, since the Government had prepared a
Page iv



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
comprehensive program, it would not have been appropriate for the Bank to delay the process
while specific legal changes to meet SAL conditionality were thoroughly reviewed. Second, the
Government's program was linked directly to the peace efforts which were the overriding
priority. In this regard, the Government needed to achieve growth quickly since an improvement
in economic conditions was an essential ingredient to achieving peace. Third, the Govemment
needed to restore relations with much of the donor community as soon as possible, in order to
obtain critical international support and vital external financing for peace-related initiatives. It
was presumed that swift action by the Bank to support the Government's program through SAL
I could generate greater international support. In fact, this support for the Government program
was confirmed at the first Consultative Group Meeting for El Salvador held in May 15-16, 1991,
three months after Board approval of SAL I (Part I, paras. 30 and 34).
7.    Program Results. Following a long hiatus in Bank operations, in a country that had
endured a tumultuous period of internal conflict, the overall performance of SAL I in El
Salvador can be considered very satisfactory. The timing of the program at the start of a new
Government with a strong commitment to structural reforms was instrumental in achieving its
objectives. The success of SAL I in meeting its objectives and engendering a close working
relationship with the Government should contribute to accomplishing the goals supported by SAL
II (Part I, para. 89).
8.    The principal accomplishments of SAL I include the following:
*     The success of SAL I helped the Government regain credibility with the international
community and raise resources needed for the implementation of the post-war National
Reconstruction Plan presented at the May 1991, March 1992, and April 1993 Bank-
sponsored Consultative Group meetings (Part 1, para. 34).
*     SAL I provided the discipline that the Government needed to get the program off the
ground, especially for reforms to re-activate the economy through increased private
sector investment while stabilizing the currency, interest rates, and inflation (Part I, para.
82).
*     By supporting the Government's stabilization and structural reform program, the loan
contributed to increased confidence in the economy, which reinforced the flow of capital
and investment (Part I, para. 84).
*     Financial sector reforms revamped the banking system, greatly enhancing asset quality
and contributing to increased profitability. Liberalization of interest rates resulted in
increased savings (Part l, para. 85).
Page v



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
*     Through elimination of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, the program strengthened
competitiveness and set the stage for the development of export-oriented activities (Part
I, para. 86).
*     The introduction of the Value Added Tax significantly improved the tax revenue base by
creating a one-time windfall in revenues and establishing a more income-elastic source
of revenue (Part I, para. 59).
*     SAL I enabled the Government to define broad objectives and to focus its program
around specific goals. It buttressed the planning process (Part I, para. 89).
9.    Sustainability. The overall success of SAL I bodes well for the continued sustainability
of program benefits. One of the objectives of the program was to reactivate the economy.
Achieving economic growth in the short-term was critical to enhancing the possibilities of
reaching a peace agreement. The program's success in triggering a healthy economic recovery
beginning in 1990 greatly enhances the sustainability of all other reforms both on the political
and on the economic fronts. SAL I succeeded first in accomplishing the urgent task of
reactivating the economy and second in preparing the Government for continued policy reforms
through SAL II (Part I, para. 75).
10.   Since SAL I was the first operation of its kind in El Salvador, it was envisioned as a first
step in the adjustment process. Achievement of the loan's objectives was not dependent on
completing all the necessary medium and long-term structural adjustments. In fact, most SALs
are designed with the understanding that follow-up operations will be necessary. However, the
success of SAL I in meeting loan objectives depended on how well the loan satisfied certain key
conditions that would in turn ensure continuity of reforms through a SAL II operation. In this
regard SAL I succeeded first in accomplishing the urgent task of reactivating the economy and
second in preparing the Government for continued policy reforms through SAL 1I. SAL II
addresses a number of policy weaknesses discussed in this report.  In this regard, the
sustainability of SAL I benefits are likely to hinge on the successful implementation of its sequel
(Part I, para. 79).
11.   The principal risk to the sustainability of SAL I is the possibility of political discord or
change in direction of economic policy by the new government beginning in June 1994. A
smooth transition by the new administration in the area of economic policy is critical for the
sustainability of structural reforms (Part I, para. 80).
12.   Lessons Learned. Five main lessons can be learned from the very satisfactory experience
of SAL I (Part I, para 98).
Page vi



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
Borrower ownership of structural reforms and policy continuity are a prerequisite for
successful adjustment lending. In the case of SAL I, the thrust of the program had been
conceived by the Government prior to assuming office. The Bank's role was primarily
to assist in structuring a feasible set of goals based on the Government's own structural
adjustment program. Continuity in the Government's policies was then ensured through
very low turnover in key ministerial posts.
*     Political will is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for smooth and timely
compliance with loan conditionality. Possible changes in the legal framework and
logistical issues related to program implementation should also be reviewed during
appraisal. Close agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on the scope of a
structural adjustment program should not be grounds for accelerating preparation and
appraisal of a SAL. In the case of SAL I, the Government had the advantage of a
prepared program prior to appraisal. Nevertheless, some more time should have been
allocated to evaluating implementation capacity because a borrower's willingness to
accept certain conditions, no matter how well intentioned, should be weighed in terms
of its capability to carry them out. An adjustment program involves a balancing act
between speed of preparation and execution, program detail, and flexibility to maneuver
in an uncertain environment. In the case of SAL I, perhaps more time should have been
spent with the Government in reviewing the steps that were necessary to achieve the
program objectives, in order to gauge the Government's implementation capabilities and
hence the appropriate degree of program flexibility, particularly in the case of the
privatization process. Greater analysis of the legal ramifications of some of the policy
reforms may have averted the implementation delays experienced in the removal of trade
barriers, and in the divestiture of the assets of the agricultural marketing boards. On the
other hand, the overriding consideration was the urgent need to support the Government's
adjustment effort.
*     A structural adjustment loan should not include an investment program type component.
Tacking onto a SAL what may appear to be a straightforward project component (i.e. a
non-policy related activity) risks undermining the effectiveness of a SAL.  The
administrative requirements for designing, implementing, and monitoring an investment
project component are quite different than those of a SAL. In retrospect, an investment
project may have been a more appropriate vehicle for implementing the nutritional
program.  Nevertheless, it was felt that an adjustment operation that might cause
additional social hardship should include countervailing measures and, in the end, two
out of the three measures included in the nutritional component were indeed successfully
implemented.
*     Sequencing issues within sector reforms should be closely analyzed during loan
preparation. The sequencing of the financial sector reforms under SAL I may have
Page vii



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
heightened systematic risk by promoting new sectoral components, before completing
work in other areas. Financial system reform programs should have followed a step-by-
step schedule emphasizing the commercial banking system first, in parallel to the
strengthening of the Superintendency, followed perhaps by insurance companies, pension
funds, and capital markets. In general, the speed of reforms should be regulated by the
quality of the outcome.  In this regard, the restructuring of the financial system
components should have proceeded one area at a time. For example, before moving on
to restructuring the insurance industry, the banking system reforms should be well in
place, and the supervisory agency operating smoothly.
*     In designing loan conditionality that involves actions to be taken on a long list of items,
such as elimination of a large number of import/export permits, a broader approach is
appropriate. This approach would help avoid undue delays in implementation of program
components which are not critical to the overall success of the program. Throughout
SAL implementation, the Government demonstrated a genuine commitment to the trade
reform measures. Delays in eradicating the remaining two items delayed tranche release,
while evidence was being collected on the substantial compliance with the objectives of
the condition. In future lending operations, instead of identifying a large number of
closely related individual actions, a broader definition should be used to allow room for
technical judgement by the Bank regarding whether satisfactory compliance meets the
objectives.
Page viii



PCR: Structural Adjuistment Loan
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Program Identity:
Name               :     Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan Number              3293-ES
RVP Unit           :     Latin America and the Caribbean
Country            :     El Salvador
Sector             :     Non-Project Lending
B.   Economic and Political Background
1.          El Salvador is the smallest country in Central America. With a population of
about 5.4 million people in an area of 21,000 sq. km, it is the most densely populated country
in the western hemisphere. With social indicators among the worst in Latin America and per
capita income of US$1,170 in 1992, it also ranks as one of the poorer countries in the region.
El Salvador has a limited natural resource endowment, and virtually no remaining agricultural
frontier. Almost 60 percent of the population lives in rural areas, and 87 percent of agricultural
producers farm areas of less than 3 hectares.  During the 1980s, about 1 million people
(practically 20 percent of the population) migrated to the US as a result of the civil war, and
now provide significant worker remittances. Worker remittances grew from 0.3 percent of GDP
in 1980 to almost II percent in 1992.
2.    El Salvador's small open economy is highly sensitive to developments in the external
environment. During 1979-1988, exports of goods and non-factor services averaged 25 percent
of GDP, but fell to only approximately 14 percent of GDP per year during 1989-93.
Merchandise exports are heavily dependent on a few export commodities: coffee, cotton, sugar
and shrimp. Of these, the most important is coffee, representing about 61 percent of total
exports.  However, sharp fluctuations in coffee prices have negatively affected economic
performance. Historically, exports were also hampered by an exchange rate regime which
allowed the persistent overvaluation of the colon. Restrictive and highly protective trade policies
engendered a production apparatus that was ill-adapted for exporting outside of the Central
American region.
3.   In the 1960s and 1970s, rapid real GDP growth (averaging 5.4 percent per year) stemmed
from favorable agricultural commodity prices, expanding regional markets for manufactured
products following the creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM), and an
accommodating and expanding international financial environment.  The economy was
characterized by the absence of significant domestic imbalances and low inflation. There were
Page I



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
improvements in health and education services, particularly in urban areas. Nevertheless, gross
inequalities in wealth, income, and access to land severely exacerbated social tensions.
4.    In 1979 social tensions erupted into open civil war. At the same time, the external
environment deteriorated sharply due to adverse terms of trade and a contraction of regional
markets. These events led to severe macroeconomic imbalances and a marked drop in income
per capita. The conflict also diverted public resources from infrastructure and the social sectors
to military expenditures. Inappropriate economic policies, including nationalization of the
financial and export-marketing systems at the beginning of the decade, also contributed to the
deterioration.  Stabilization efforts during this period focused largely on reducing public
investment, while external imbalances were temporarily dealt with through more restrictive trade
policies, increased grants largely associated with the conflict, and higher worker remittances.
As a result, the country's external debt has remained relatively low. By 1989 a full-fledged
economic crisis had emerged: a bad coffee harvest and expansionary fiscal polices led to a rapid
decline in foreign exchange reserves, and debt service to external creditors was halted, leading
to arrears and suspension of disbursements by the World Bank and IDB.
5.    After assuming office in June 1989, President Cristiani's administration set forth three
primary goals for his Administration: to end the civil war, re-introduce market discipline into
the economy, and initiate a systematic attack on poverty. The Government introduced a far-
reaching economic reform program emphasizing the reactivation of growth and the reduction of
absolute poverty as its top economic priorities, while initiating negotiations with the Farabundo
Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN) in an attempt to achieve a peaceful solution to the
decade-long civil conflict. Much of the work on the economic program had been completed prior
to the elections, under the auspices of FUSADES, a private research foundation. Subsequently,
the principal contributors to the design of the economic program went on to assume key posts
in the Cristiani Administration.
6.    Implementation of the Government's "Economic and Social Program, 1989 - 1994,"
focused initially on the economic crisis through short-term stabilization measures. The principal
areas were monetary and credit policies, fiscal policy, trade and exchange rate policies, and
price policy. Strict control over credit expansion was applied while interest rates were adjusted
upward in order to promote domestic savings. Correction of fiscal imbalances was directed
toward the 1990 budget. A tax revenue enhancement package included raising the minimum
tariff rate, simplifying income taxes, and adopting a monthly payment of corporate taxes. On
the expenditure side, constraints were applied to the public payroll, numerous subsidies were
eliminated, and tighter expense controls were imposed over autonomous institutions and public
enterprises. Trade policy measures centered on tariff rate reductions from excessively high
levels (the maximum  tariff was approximately 290 percent in 1988).  Currency market
restrictions were eased through the establishment of a market-determined exchange rate, as well
as the creation of exchange houses which were allowed to freely negotiate exchange rates. Price
Page 2



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
controls were substantially dismantled in July 1989, when controls on 231 items - out of 240
previously controlled - were eliminated.
7.    Along with economic stabilization, the Government's agenda included a social emergency
program aimed at poverty alleviation. The program was launched in August 1989 and was
comprised of four key components: (i) a Special Urban Emergency Program targeting the
construction of basic services infrastructure and the improvement of social services including
community-run pre-primary education facilities; (ii) the Municipalities in Action Program which
included provision of technical and financial assistance to municipal governments; (iii) a Special
Social Development Program for municipalities most affected by the military conflict, including
the building of schools and health posts; and (iv) an Earthquake Reconstruction Program with
greater emphasis given to reconstruction of schools, markets, housing, and other basic
infrastructure in San Salvador. Funding for many of these programs would be obtained through
a social investment fund which would in turn be financed by multilateral lending agencies.
8.    The goals of the medium-term component of the development program were to foster
market-oriented economic reforms, restructure the social sectors, and launch a national
reconstruction program once hostilities ceased. Priority for economic reform was to be given
to trade liberalization, and fiscal and financial reforms. One of the key goals of the medium-
term strategy was to achieve sustainable GDP growth of 5 percent per annum in the mid-1990s
(see Table 1).
C.   Loan Processing
9.    Shortly after taking office, the Government sought Bank support for its medium-term
program in the form of a SAL. At that time the Bank had just completed a Country Economic
Memorandum which helped to focus the loan's objectives. Preparatory work commenced almost
immediately during the summer of 1989, but was held back by a major guerrilla offensive
centered in the San Salvador area in November 1989, which led to a 6-month delay in loan
preparation. An identification mission was able to visit El Salvador in April 1990. The mission
concentrated on the following areas: (i) macroeconomic policy; (ii) financial sector; (iii) fiscal
policy; (iv) agricultural pricing; (v) trade policy; and (vi) social sectors. Discussions with the
Government advanced expeditiously due in large part to the existence of a comprehensive policy
agenda that had been developed during the political campaign, and was being supported by the
Cristiani Administration's solid commitment to economic reforms. The mission was thus able
to concentrate on structuring and prioritizing specific goals within the program. The processing
of SAL I, from the identification mission (April 1990) through loan negotiations (December
1990), took nine months. The Bank and the Government were in general agreement in terms
of loan objectives and structural adjustment measures since the outset of the process and thus,
during the design stage, much of the discussion centered on the timing of individual measures,
rather than their justification.
Page 3



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
10.   The Bank worked closely with the IMF during this initial phase since the Government
had requested the Fund to provide support for the design of its stabilization program. The
Government's positive performance with respect to fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate
adjustments led to the IMF Board approval of an upper-tranche Stand-by program on August 27,
1990.
11.   Recognizing that accessibility to Bank as well as other multilateral and bilateral financing
hinged on normalizing debt service payments, the Government moved swiftly to clear
outstanding arrears. In January 1990, El Salvador cleared arrears with the Bank, and those with
the IDB were cleared in February. A Paris Club agreement was reached on September 17,
1990.
12.   By loan appraisal in October-November 1990, the Government had made significant
progress in pursuing its reform agenda and thus warranted the Bank's strong support. Some
weaknesses were noted in the areas of fiscal policy, tax enforcement, and lack of consolidation
of the Government's budget, as well as Government resistance to eliminating trade restrictions
on certain agricultural and energy products. The most important changes to the policy matrix
originally contained in the Initiating Memorandum discussed at the Regional Loan Committee
were: (i) additional measures to improve the tax collection mechanism; (ii) a modification of the
interest rate liberalization scheme; and (iii) steps to introduce three targeted nutritional assistance
programs. These modifications were not considered of a substantive nature and were not
expected to affect the program's overall focus or strength. In addition, an IMF mission in
November to review the Stand-by had reported that all performance criteria through September
had been observed.
13.   Bank internal review meetings which endorsed the proposed conditionality of the
adjustment loan, expressed some concerns regarding the high degree of political risk, especially
the possibility of a return of hostilities. The sustainability of the Government's reform program
was questioned in view of an unproven track record on stabilization. Concerns were also raised
about the appropriateness of the nutrition component in dealing with the nutritional problems of
the population, and more specifically, on the rationale behind the design of the weaning food
scheme.
14.   Negotiations with the Government were completed on December 19, 1990. At the time,
the Government had already complied with the conditions for Board presentation except for the
following: (i) public announcement of the schedule of tariff adjustments; (ii) issuance of a
Central Bank directive establishing an interest rate band; (iii) issuance of Central Bank
regulations defining the terms and conditions for recapitalizing the banks through Government
funding; and (iv) completion of a proposed action plan to rehabilitate the Banking
Superintendency. Subsequent action by the Government to meet these conditions cleared the
way for Board presentation.
Page 4



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
15.   During the initial stages of SAL I preparation, a loan of US$50 million was
contemplated, to be disbursed over 12-18 months. Subsequently, the program was extended to
cover a two-year period and the loan amount was raised to US$60 million. Prior to loan
negotiations, the Government requested that the loan amount be raised to US$75 million. The
Bank agreed to the higher amount in view of the persisting nature of the Persian Gulf crisis and
consequent higher oil prices which had exacerbated El Salvador's external financing gap.
16.   SAL I was approved by the Executive Directors on February 12, 1991 and became
effective on May 23, 1991. The first tranche of US$25 million was disbursed in October 1991.
Disbursement of the first tranche was slower than expected because the Government experienced
difficulties in collecting the import documentation required by the Bank disbursement procedures
(para. 96).
D.    The Adjustment Program: Objectives and Description
Overall Objectives
17.   SAL I was designed to support the Government's 1989-1994 Economic and Social
Development Program, which focused on economic recovery adjustment, and maintenance of
a consistent macroeconomic policy framework. The objectives of the program were to: (i)
improve incentives to stimulate savings and investment in more efficient export-oriented and
import-substituting activities; (ii) increase tax enforcement capacity; (iii) improve the efficiency
of financial intermediation; (iv) improve productivity in the agricultural sector; and (v) prevent
a deterioration in the nutritional status of the poor during the adjustment process. The program
aimed at promoting export growth and diversification, a more efficient allocation of domestic
resources, improved fiscal control and a reduction in absolute povcrty. It was also expected to
improve El Salvador's creditworthiness, thus facilitating access to external financing, needed for
long-term sustainable growth.
18.   SAL 1 focused on five principal areas: (i) trade policy, centered on the narrowing of the
tariff band; (ii) fiscal policy, with the primary goal of introducing the VAT; (iii) monetary
policy and financial system reforms, with special emphasis on liberalization of interest rates and
the restructuring and privatization of the banking system; (iv) agricultural sector reforms, which
centered on the liberalization of producer prices and the divestiture of the assets of the
agricultural marketing agencies; and (v) social reform, with primary attention given to
nutritional programs. By front-loading policy conditionality, the Bank was able to validate the
Government's commitment prior to Board approval. Reforms in these areas were expected to
set the stage for a more equitable and sustainable GDP growth of 5 percent during 1993-1998
with a diminishing external resource gap.
Page 5



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
Description of the Proeram
19.   SAL I was disbursed in three tranches upon compliance with specific policy measures.
A matrix listing loan conditionality and compliance is found in Annex 1.
a.    Trade Policy and Exchange Rate Management
20.   In 1990 the Government adjusted all tariff rates within a range of 5-35 percent. It
announced a schedule for the progressive reduction of the tariff range to a maximum of 20
percent and a minimum rate of 10 percent by June 1993. All imports other than investment
goods carried out by autonomous public sector institutions would be subject to the same tariffs
as private imports. Import permits were not to be required for more than 16 tariff positions and
export permits would not be required for more than 4 tariff positions; the products for which
trade permits were to be eliminated and the timetable for elimination were specified in a
schedule agreed upon during negotiations.
b.    Fiscal Policy
21.   The Government presented the Bank a set of actions to improve tax enforcement and
expand the base of registered taxpayers. The Government also decided on an action plan for
introducing a value-added tax (VAT) to replace the sales tax by June 1992. This plan was
elaborated with a suitable level of technical assistance from the IMF and USAID. Compliance
with a pre-agreed public sector savings target was to be considered during the macroeconomic
review that would precede each future tranche release. In addition, SAL I would support the
regular preparation of a consolidated budget, combining the ordinary and extraordinary budgets,
to be presented to the Legislative Assembly, beginning with the fiscal budget for 1993.
C.    The Financial Sector
22.   The Government was committed to eliminating all controls on commercial bank interest
rates by January 1993. During a first phase the Government would liberalize interest rates on
180-day deposits and the lending rate for credit transactions of up to one year. The interest rate
schedules were to be reviewed with the Bank on a periodic basis. Interest rates charged by the
Central Bank on its short-term rediscount lines that depend on its own resources were to be
adjusted in line with market rates.
23.   In November 1990, the Legislative National Assembly approved a package of laws to
recapitalize and privatize the nationalized banks and savings and loans associations, and to
reform the Banking Superintendency. SAL I would support the recapitalization of the banks and
the rehabilitation of the Superintendency in conformity with these laws. Initiation of sale of at
least two commercial banks, adequate progress in the implementation of the Superintendency's
Page 6



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
rehabilitation program, and the completion of a plan to recapitalize and sell the savings & loans
associations and the Banco Hipotecario were specific loan conditions.
d.    Agricultural Pricing and Marketing
24.   An important constraint on the agricultural sector had been the discriminatory treatment
it received through trade policies pursued by past governments. Much of the conditionality in
this area, therefore, was already being addressed in the trade policy conditions for SAL
disbursement. Import and export permit requirements were to be eliminated for rice, sorghum,
and yellow maize. In the special case of white maize and beans, a variable tariff scheme was to
be implemented. The other important step in the agricultural sector supported by SAL I was the
divestiture of assets of the parastatal marketing companies, which constituted a fiscal burden and
whose monopoly rights already had been abolished. These conditions included an action plan
to reform and sell the assets of INAZUCAR, INCAFE, and BFA's marketing activ4ties.
e     Poverty Alleviation
25.   To reduce the incidence of absolute poverty, the Government designed a set of measures
as part of its structural adjustment program, with the aim of providing a safety net for the most
vulnerable groups of society in the short term, and of improving their human capital in the long
term. The Government, with IDB assistance, established a Social Investment Fund (SIF) with
an initial 3-year mandate, which was approved by the National Assembly on October 31, 1990,
to channel donor funds toward urgently needed projects.
26.   Initially, the Bank had proposed setting of explicit social expenditure targets (as shares
of GDP) in SAL I conditionality. However, lack of information on social spending levels by
type of program prevented the design of realistic targets and would have consequently precluded
their monitoring.  Thus, the Bank settled for a more general condition on the sectoral
distribution of budgetary expenditures in the 1992 Budget prior to submission to the Legislature
(see Annex 1). Explicit social expenditure targets were introduced in the subsequent Social
Sector Rehabilitation Project (SSRP), which was approved by the Board on June 19, 1991. The
separation of the ordinary and extraordinary budgets and the incompatibility of their accounting
framework would have to be resolved, as proposed in the public finances segment of the
program, before the development of a social spending plan could begin.
27.   The Bank reached agreement with the Government on three pilot nutrition projects, the
substance of which had been discussed in a strategy report on nutritional assistance in El
Salvador prepared jointly by RUTA, the World Food Program, and the Government. The three
projects involved: (i) the distribution of nutritionally-fortified cookies to primary schoolchildren;
(ii) the distribution of weaning formula through health posts; and (iii) the introduction of food
coupons.
Page 7



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
E.    Program Design and Organization
28.   SAL I was designed to support the Government's 1989-1994 economic program by
providing the necessary discipline to get the program  off the ground.  A clear conceptual
foundation for the program had been developed prior to the 1989 elections under the
coordination of the economic researchi group of FUSADES. In September 1989, the newly-
elected Government approached the Bank with a draft structural adjustment program and
requested assistance in its implementation. The Bank's Country Economic Memorandum, which
had been completed just prior to the initiation of President Cristiani's term, had also helped to
define some of the key structural adjustment issues. Thus, the key issues and the policy options
for reform were broadly shared and understood by both parties at the outset. SAL I was
appropriately timed in terms of the need for reforms and the Government's willingness to adopt
the necessary measures.
29.   Overall, the focus, scope, and design of SAL I were appropriate to the objectives to
achieved. The focus of the SAL I was suitable and its scope was very comprehensive and well
balanced. The project was well prepared and the Government's institutional capacity and the
available technical assistance, provided by other international and bilateral institutions, were
suitable to the goals of the program, except perhaps in the case of the nutritional component.
the critical reason for the operation's success was that the final SAL I policy matrix followed
very closely the adjustment program as designed by the principal managers of economic policy,
the President of the Central Bank and the Minister of Planning. This ensured a clear definition
of the role and responsibilities of the key institutions involved in the implementation of the loan
objectives. The swiftness of loan preparation and negotiations confirmed a high degree of
agreement between the Bank and the Government.
30.   Nevertheless, in retrospect, a few relatively minor flaws might have been avoided. First,
early analysis of the legal changes required to comply with some of the policy reforms may have
averted implementation delays in the removal of trade barriers and in the divestiture of the assets
of the agricultural marketing boards. In the case of trade barriers, delays on several items
resulted from uncertainties on whether trade permits could be eliminated through Executive
Decree or if legislative approval was necessary. Delays in the privatization process resulted,
in part, from the fact that the legal procedures for the sale of parastatals' assets varied from
entity to entity, depending on the Law of creation of each of them (this distinction was applied
even to individual sugar mills) (para. 69). Second, the Bank should have been more attentive
to the Borrower's lack of familiarity with design, implementation, and supporting procedures
of structural adjustment loans when preparing the policy matrix. Perhaps more time should have
been spent with the Government in reviewing the steps that were necessary to meet the
conditionality.  Third, more consultation with representatives from  other sectors of the
Government, such as the decentralized agencies and private sector groups, could have further
enhanced the implementation of the program.
Page 8



PCR.- Structural Adjustment Loan
31. Fourth, although the objectives of the nutritional program were well integrated with those
of SAL I, its implementation under the framework of the adjustment program was inappropriate;
it should have been structured as a project component of a separate investment operation. The
inclusion of the fortified cookies, weaning formula, and food coupon projects detracted attention
from the supervision and implementation of the structural adjustment measures and eventually
resulted in the issuance of a waiver for non-compliance with the food coupon project. Tacking
on what appeared to be a straightforward project component risked undermining the effectiveness
of the structural adjustment loan since the administrative requirements for preparing, designing,
implementing, and monitoring a project loan are quite different than those of a SAL. The loan's
only waiver was due to difficulties in implementing the nutritional program dealing with the food
coupon pilot project.  The Bank should have specified a more flexible condition such as
implementation of a nutritional action plan, including a clear sector strategy and the institutional
arrangements, rather than a highly detailed and rigidly structured project component. The
purpose of a SAL is to act as a catalyst for structural reforms, and the social sector component
attempts to ease the pain of those adjustments. However, the elaboration of nutritional and other
social projects should be in the context of a specialized sectoral operation, not a SAL. In
particular, the implementation of the nutritional initiatives required substantial technical
assistance. At the time of loan negotiations, the Bank was appraising the complementary SSRP.
In retrospect, this project may have been a more appropriate vehicle for implementing the
nutritional program. Nevertheless, it was felt that an adjustment operation that might cause
additional social hardship should include countervailing measures. In the end, two out of the
three measures included in the nutritional component in SAL I were indeed successfully
implemented.
32.   Fifth, with hindsight, the application of an explicit formula for determining interest rates
was not the appropriate adjustment instrument in view of the large influx of capital from private
remittances. Any formula approach to setting rates is bound to have distortions. The formula
used in setting interest rate conditionality was designed to maintain interest rates positive in
inflation-adjusted terms. However, this approach did not take into consideration the supply of
funds in the market. Because El Salvador was experiencing a strong influx of capital from
private remittances, the Central Bank was faced with a conflicting situation: positive real interest
rates were contributing to the excess liquidity arising from capital inflows. However, the
Salvadoran authorities were not prepared at that time to have fully market-oriented interest rates
and, in addition, it was only in 1991 that private inflows began accelerating (from an average
of approximately 5 percent of GDP per year during 1987-90, inflows increased to 8.8 percent
of GDP in 1991 and 10.5 percent in 1992). Finally, the formula approach was intended only
as a transition toward full liberalization of interest rates. In fact, interest rates were liberalized
in March 1992, almost one year ahead of schedule.
33.   Finally, the restructuring and strengthening of the Banking Superintendency (SSF) should
have been explicitly incorporated as part loan conditionality in all three tranches in order to
Page 9



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
avoid delays and sequencing issues in overall financial sector reform. In adjustment programs,
the liberalization of the financial system is imperative for the development of domestic savings
and the efficient allocation of resources. While a highly deregulated financial system tends to
be more efficient, it is also more vulnerable to imbalances created by excess risk-taking.
Because of this, the strengthening of the Banking Superintendency needed to be given the highest
priority. For instance, SAL I should have included reforms aiming at the preparation of a
database with key financial rations, followed by preparation of regular financial reports on
commercial banks.  Moreover, the SSF was responsible for coordination of the loan
classification project and for qualification of the new bank investors.  While the agency
completed these tasks successfully, the sequencing of these steps was not well designed. By not
adequately considering the time factor involved in the privatization and reorganization of the
banking system Superintendency, the Bank may have grouped too many activities together at the
same time. A SSF strengthening program was not included in the loan because other bilateral
(USAID) and multilateral (IMF) institutions were going to provide sufficient technical assistance
toward this objective. However, in retrospect, the inclusion of conditionality in this area in all
three SAL tranches would have given it higher priority at the political level and possibly avoided
both delays in the implementation of the program to strengthen the SSF and sequencing issues.
34.   Notwithstanding the limitations discussed above, the timing of the loan was extremely
relevant and any shortcomings must be balanced with the urgency to support the Govemment's
adjustment efforts. First, since the Government had prepared a comprehensive program, it
would not have been appropriate for the Bank to delay the process while specific legal
implications of program implementation were reviewed (para. 30). Secoad, the Govemment's
program was linked directly to the peace efforts which were the overriding priority. In this
regard, the Govemment needed to achieve growth quickly since an improvement in economic
conditions was an essential ingredient to achieving peace. Third, the Govemment needed to
restore relations with much of the donor community as soon as possible, in order to obtain
critical intemational support and vital external financing for peace initiatives.  When the
President Cristiani assumed office there were no active relationships with other donors except
for the U.S. Also, there had not been any Bank lending for over a decade except for the
Earthquake Reconstruction Loan of 1987. It was presumed that swift action by the Bank to
support the Government's program through SAL I could generate greater intemational support.
In fact, this support for the Government program was confirmed at the first Consultative Group
Meeting for El Salvador held in May 15-16, 1991, three months after Board approval of SAL
I. Moreover, the success of SAL I helped the Government regain credibility with the
intemational community and raise resources needed for the implementation of the post-war
National Reconstruction Plan presented at the March 1992 and April 1993 Bank-sponsored
Consultative Group meetings.
Page 10



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
F.    Program Implementation and Monitoring
35.   Progress in Government compliance with SAL I conditionality was very satisfactory.
Most of the conditions were fully met, three were substantially met, and only one technical
waiver from the pilot food coupon component was required and granted. The principal
implementation and monitoring results are summarized below.
ag     Board Presentation Conditionality
36.   Prior to Board presentation and in fact even before loan appraisal, the Government
implemented a sizeable number of policy adjustments and reforms (see Annex 1). These actions
confirmed its strong commitment to the program in spite of the tense environment that followed
the November 1989 guerrilla offensive. The Government's attitude was one of urgency in
completing the preparatory work for Bank approval of the program. Its accomplishments were
noteworthy in view of the dire conditions of the economy at the time that President Cristiani
assumed office in June 1989.
37.   One of the initial accomplishments was the unification of the currency market. During
the first half of 1990, all foreign exchange transactions, except for a few public sector items,
had been transferred to the commercial bank market, thus, in effect, unifying the official and
the commercial bank rates. With the legalization of exchange houses in April of that year, the
black market was neutralized. This set the stage for the orderly implementation of the trade
policy reforms.
38.   By December 1990, the Government had narrowed the minimum/maximum tariff spread
from 0-290 percent to 5-35 percent and the number of tariff rate categories from 25 to five, and
it had publicly announced a schedule of annual tariff adjustments to bring tariffs within a range
of 10-20 percent by June 1993'. Most tariff duty exemptions were eliminated. Import and
export permit requirements were also eliminated on 32 tariff items and a schedule for removal
of most remaining permit requirements was agreed upon.
39.   Progress on reforming public finances was satisfactory. Most of the pertinent conditions
dealt with simplification of the tax base and preparation of action plans to strengthen its
buoyancy through enactment of appropriate legislation. Some weaknesses were noted in the area
of tax administration and enforcement measures. The action plan contained a series of partial
measures such as modifications to income tax deductions, a program to monitor a sample of
' Later the minimum tariff was set at 5 percent instcad of the agreed 10 percent. This discrepancy stemmed from a
subsequent agreement among Central American countries to set a common floor for all member countries of five percent.
Since the Bank was in support of a regional common market agreement and the discrepancy was not considered excessive,
the lower tariff floor was accepted.
Page 11



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
corporations, and a reduction in the float used by banks in making tax collections. The existence
of a one-year IMF Stand-by program (approved on August 27, 1990) was instrumental in
incorporating the 1.7 percent non-financial public sector savings target for 1991. However, the
actual result was a deficit of 0.7 percent of GDP (see para. 61).
40.   For the most part, financial system reforms proceeded on schedule. The transformation
from fixed to market-determined interest rates was to proceed according to a lengthy transition
period. Initially interest rates were modified according to a pre-specified formula based on prior
inflation rates. Appropriate legislation was enacted to initiate the recapitalization of the banks
and their subsequent privatization, and the restructuring of the Banking Superintendency. Based
on this legal framework, the Government was set to restructure the banks in anticipation of their
eventual privatization through the sale of shares.
41.   Perhaps the slowest area of the program was linked to agricultural sector reforms
involving the divestiture of the assets of the commodity marketing boards. Prior to loan
negotiation, the Government had expressed concern over the timetable for divestiture of IRA's
assets. One of the Board Presentation conditions was to define an action plan for divestiture of
IRA, which was to be initiated as a second tranche condition. The Government prepared the
plan, but its resistance to a specific schedule for asset sales was symptomatic of strong political
opposition to privatization. Shortly after Board approval of SAL I, the Government established
a National Privatization Commission (CONAP), through Decree 768, which was to serve as an
umbrella entity to manage privatization and divestiture. As subsequent events demonstrated,
CONAP and its divestiture program never really got off the ground (paras. 68-70).
42.   Social sector reforms carried out prior to Board presentation included the establishment
of a Social Investment Fund in October 1990 with appropriate funding to initiate its operations
in 1991. Preparations began for a pilot project to distribute nutritionally-fortified cookies to
schoolchildren at the start of the school year in March 1991.
b.    Second Tranche Conditionality
43.   Progress in carrying out the economic program  was satisfactory and there were no
significant delays in meeting tranche conditionality.
44.   The Government's macroeconomic management, as evident in the reactivation of the
economy, proved to be satisfactory. This confirmed once again the Government's commitment
to the program and the consistency of policy actions. Economic activity improved noticeably
rduring 1990-91, with GDP growth averaging 3.5 percent per annum, accompanied by a
kignificant decline in inflation from 24 percent in 1990 to 14.4 percent in 1991 (see Table 1).
However, on the external front, the trade balance deteriorated, falling to -12.5 percent of GDP
in. 1991, from -12.1 percent 1989 and -  1. I in 1990. The deterioration was attributable to lower
Page 12



PCR- Structural Adjustment Loan
than expected export earnings and continued import growth. The former resui.ed from weather-
related declines in the volume of coffee exports as well as continued low coffee prices; the latter
was driven by a combination of a strong economic recovery and trade policy liberalization.
Despite the deterioration in the trade balance, a surge in private transfers narrowed the relative
size of the current account deficit (before official transfers) from 9.4 percent of GDP in 1989
to 5.0 percent in 1991.
45.   The IMF's one year Stand-by program expired in August 1991. All performance criteria
were met except for the non-financial public sector (NFPS) deficit in the last quarter.
Nevertheless, the IMF did not consider it a serious deviation from the program, and approved
a follow-up Stand-by in early January 1992. The principal reasons for the departure from the
fiscal target had been a higher than expected level of domestic interest rates and substantial
advances to the electricity utility to offset operational losses arising from the drought and war-
related sabotage.
46.   Compliance with trade reform  policies (see listing of conditions in Annex 1) was
satisfactory. All tariffs in Annex I and II of the Central American Tariff Code (CATC), save
for the exceptions noted previously, were set within a range of 5-30 percent, including the tariff
on wheat (which was raised from 1 to 5 percent) (see Table 2). Items included in Annex III of
CATC, which are classified as luxury goods (e.g., liquors, automobiles, recreational
motorcycles, and yachts) were to retain a tariff rate of 35 percent. This did not, however,
constitute a significant exception to the progress achieved in complying with the tariff reform
program.
47.   Compliance with conditionality for public finance reform was satisfactory. Preparatory
work for the implementation of a VAT was consistent with the objective of introducing the VAT
in July 1992. The Government took several steps to improve tax enforcement and expand the
base of registered taxpayers, as reflected in the loan's conditionality. While the Borrower had
complied with conditionality by proposing legislation to improve tax revenues through an
expanded base and through reduced evasion, the implementation of the tax enforcement program
did not bring about a measurable improvement in revenues. The lack of an adequate institutional
framework as well as legal enforcement capabilities weakened the effectiveness of the new tax
measures. A law establishing more severe penalties for tax evasion (Ley de Delito Fiscat) was
approved only in September 1993.
48.   Monetary policy reforms proceeded in a satisfactory manner. As described in paragraph
33, the complications arising from the interest rate formula in large part triggered the
Government's decision to announce that interest rate controls would be eliminated ahead of
schedule by mid-1992. The Central Bank also adopted a resolution establishing a uniform
interest rate for all short-term rediscount credits, except for lines reserved for micro-enterprises,
the reformed agrarian sector, and external credit lines (see Table 3). The Government's success
Page 13



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
in curtailing inflation in 1991 facilitated the process of interest rate liberalization. As inflation
fell, nominal interest rates declined moderately, thus ensuring an increasing real interest rate
margin (see Table 4a, b, and 5). While positive real interest rates were conducive to increased
savings, they complicated monetary management by colliding with the Government's attempts
to neutralize the much bigger than expected inflow of capital through worker remittances by
actually encouraging greater transfers to the country. In hindsight, the unexpected increase in
private remittances revealed some institutional weakness in the management of monetary policy
which could not have been anticipated during loan design.
49.   The restructuring of the loan portfolio and consequent recapitalization of the commercial
banks and finance companies was accomplished as planned. Between December 1990 and April
1991, the Government had approved several laws dealing with the restructuring and privatization
of banks and financial companies (formerly the Savings and Loan Associations), the Banking
Superintendency, and the BCR. The restructuring and recapitalization of the banks was to be
accomplished by a new entity called Fondo de Saneamiento y Fortalecimiento Financiero
(FOSAFFI). Citibank was hired to evaluate and classify the banking system's loan portfolio.
According to the new classification, the banks had to maintain high reserves in the case of loan
losses. As a result of this operation, a decision was made to liquidate three banks (Banco
Mercantil, Banco Capitalisador and Banco de Credito Popular) and to merge two banks (Banco
Financiero and Banco de Desarrollo). To recapitalize the remaining banks, BCR was authorized
to issue up to c1,200 million in Financial Restructuring Bonds (Bonos de Saneamiento) which
were then transferred to FOSAFFI to be used in purchasing the non-performing loans of the
banks. The swap of non-performing loans for Financial Restructuring Bonds was made on the
basis of equal nominal values, although the banks were to perform the loan servicing and
recovery.  In addition, FOSAFFI injected additional res& urces in the form  of a capital
contribution for those banks that were below the minimum capital adequacy level of 8 percent
of assets. The total value of FOSAFFI's rescue operation was as follows: purchase of "D" and
"E" rated loans, cl,818 million and additional capital contributions, c630 million, for a total
amount of c2,448 million. By strengthening the balance sheet of the banks, the financial
restructuring was a critical factor in the success of the subsequent sale of the banks' shares (see
Table 6).
50.   The first two banks that were offered for sale were Banco Cuscatldn and Banco Agr(cola.
Observing the Government's objective of widespread ownership of capital, the terms of sale
limited equity ownership to 5 percent per individual, including related parties, and per
corporation, partnership, or their affiliates. During the initial offering, the sale of shares would
be limited to: (i) small investors up to c100,000 in shares purchased; and (ii) bank employees.
After 120 days, the remaining shares were to be sold through public auction to other investors
subject to the 5 percent rule.
Page 14



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
51.   Progress had been made in the program to rehabilitate the Banking Superintendency
(SSF): a comprehensive technical assistance project was signed with USAID in early 1991 to
modernize the administrative functions and procedures of the SSF, purchase data processing
equipment, and train personnel . However, as discussed earlier (para. 33), because sequencing
issues were not explicitly addressed, the program to strengthen the SSF did not proceed at the
speed which would have been necessary to match advances in bank privatization.
52.   Compliance with agricultural sector conditionality was satisfactory, although significant
problems were encountered during its implementation. The sale of IRA assets was fraught with
political as well as procedural difficulties. While IRA ceased to function in 1990, it still
maintained 1,800 employees on the payroll. After a lengthy and heated negotiation with the
labor union, a severance package was agreed in August 1991. Nevertheless, the Government
had to fight an uphill battle with the Assembly to overcome political opposition to the divestiture
process. Opposition groups argued that the sale of IRA assets could result in oligopolistic
control of basic grain marketing activities by a few large producers. For this reason the
Government encouraged the sale of the assets to small farmers and cooperatives, further delaying
the divestiture process. Nevertheless, by taking this measure concerning IRA, the Government
eliminated the fiscal burden represented by IRA and further reduced its potential to interfere in
the marketing of basic grains; the two main objectives of SAL second tranche conditionality in
the agricultural sector.
53.   Second tranche social sector reform  measures were undertaken satisfactorily, even
though ex-post data show that actual expenditures in education and health were lower than
budgeted. In early September 1991, the Government and the Bank discussed a draft of the
ordinary fiscal budget, prior to its submission to the Legislative Assembly, which the Bank
subsequently found satisfactory. The Draft 1992 Budget proposed a 12 percent increase in real
terms in budget allocations for education and a 20 percent real increase in the allocation for
health. These allocations represented a shift of resources toward education from 1.6 percent of
GDP in 1991 to a projected 1.7 percent in 1992, and toward health from 0.9 percent to 1.0
percent respectively. Final data for those two years show a 5 percent real increase in ordinary
budget expenditures for education and an 8 percent real increase in budget expenditures for
health. These allocations represented a shift of resources toward education from 1.6 percent of
GDP in 1991 to 1.63 percent in 1992, and toward health from 0.78 percent to 0.8 percent
respectively.
c.    Third Tranche Conditionalitv
54.   Progress in carrying out the economic program was satisfactory. The fulfillment of third
tranche conditions met with some delays, in particular: the removal of remaining trade barriers,
the initiation of sale of agricultural marketing agencies' assets, and the implementation of a pilot
program for the food coupon. Nevertheless, the Government's compliance in the critical areas
Page 15



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
of the program assured the achievement of SAL I's overall objectives. In addition, release of
the third tranche was delayed beyond the targeted fourth quarter of 1992 because the National
Assembly was focussing on peace-related legislation as a priority.
55.   On the macroeconomic side, economic activity expanded strongly during 1992, with real
GDP growth of 4.6 percent, driven mostly by the agricultural sector and continued expansion
in construction and manufacturing. Inflation subsided to 11.2 percent from 14.4 percent in
1991. Fiscal policy management was complicated by: sharp falls in international commodity
prices, particularly coffee prices; a drought which seriously affected the state-owned electricity
company (CEL); and delays in setting up new tax administration measures to strengthen
revenues. The IMF approved a 14-month Stand-by in January 1992. At the mid-term review
in August, however it was apparent that the Government was significantly exceeding targets for
central government expenditures and net bank credit to the non-financial public sector.
Agreement could not be reached at that time on corrective measures to put fiscal policy back on
track. A Stand-by Arrangement was eventually approved by the IMF Board on May 10, 1993.
The fiscal package for the 1993 program included a reduction in central government
employment, public sector wage restraint, cuts in non-priority current spending, increases in
taxes and in social security contributions, and tax fraud legislation. At mid-term review in July
1993, the Government met all performance targets with a particularly strong showing in terms
of increased net international reserves. Government revenues rose as a result of the VAT,
higher import taxes, and the enactment of the tax evasion law. In addition, expenditures were
not as high as expected due to delays in capital expenditures which had been expected to
accelerate during the latter part of the year.
56.   The third phase of trade policy reforms was satisfactory, although elimination of two
out of 29 trade permits specified at the time of loan negotiation for third tranche release was
postponed (para. 21). The objective of this condition was to promote trade liberalization through
the gradual abolition of NTBs. To this end, and in agreement with the other Central American
countries, the Government set all tariffs in Annex I and II of the CATC within a range of 5-20
percent and tariffs on items included in Annex III of CATC were lowered to 30 percent. In
addition, the Government eliminated the required 8 import permits and 19 out of 21 export
permits as specified in the agreed schedule. Although abolition of 2 of the required export
permits was postponed (LPG and diesel), the Government substantially met the objective of the
condition through the elimination of an additional 11 trade permits which had not been included
in the schedule.
57.   By the time of third tranche review trade barriers were dramatically lower than those
existing during loan preparation.   Throughout SAL  implementation, the Government
demonstrated a genuine commitment to trade reform measures.  Delays in eradicating the
remaining 2 items should not have delayed tranche release, since there was substantial
compliance with the objectives of the conditionality. Instead of identifying a large number of
Page 16



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
closely related individual actions, a broader definition should have been used to allow room for
technical judgement by the Bank regarding whether satisfactory compliance met the objectives.
58.   While most of the supervision of trade policy reforms consisted of evaluation of letters
and decrees issued by the Government, some concern was expressed that these changes in effect
may not have been fully implemented. Some items passing through customs may have required
a permit even after they had been technically rescinded, or higher duties than required may have
been charged. However, the verification of implementation though physical inspection at custom
stations would have been close to impossible. In addition, the Government had displayed a high
degree of commitment to trade reform and parallel institutional reforms in customs were
beginning to address these customs administration problems.
59.   Implementation of fiscal policy reforms was satisfactory. The VAT was approved by
the Legislative Assembly on July 24, 1992, despite strenuous political opposition, and
implementation of the 10 percent VAT began on September 1, 1992.   The initial
recommendation had called for a 15 percent rate, but this was subsequently reduced to 10
percent to gamer the necessary legislative support. One of the notable features of this legislation
was the enactment of a uniform rate with exemptions applicable to only a few categories.
Preliminary 1993 data indicate a VAT/GDP coefficient of 4 percent, which compares favorably
with the average coefficient of the sales tax during the previous ten years of 2.6 percent. This
is consistent with the experience in other countries where the introduction of a VAT has
generated a one-time boost in revenues (see Table 8). By providing a buoyant revenue base, the
VAT should alleviate the fiscal imbalance. In addition, the reporting requirements under the
VAT provide a useful mechanism with which to monitor other taxes, such as the income tax.
To ensure maximum revenue generation, however, tax enforcement needs to be strengthened,
since concerns were expressed regarding non-reporting of VAT sales by businesses.
60.   The first stage of the Government's budgetary reform program was completed with the
preparation of a Consolidated Budget in a single format for fiscal year 1993. The Ministry of
Finance prepared the ordinary budget and the Ministry of Planning transmitted to the Assembly
the extraordinary budget for fiscal year 1993. With this consolidation, the Government will be
able to use the budget as a more effective tool for planning, targeting, and monitoring
expenditures.
61.   As discussed earlier (para. 39) the targeted 1.7 percent savings of non-financial public
sector for 1991 -- as specified in the Letter of Development Policy -- was not achieved and the
actual result was a deficit of 0.7 percent of GDP. Three factors contributed to this deterioration:
(i) the unanticipated increase in domestic interest payments following the restructuring of the
domestic public debt; (ii) budgetary contributions made to the electric utility (CEL) to cover
some of the losses caused by drought and sabotage; and (iii) slower than expected tax
collections. The Government took a number of steps in the second half of 1991 to reverse the
Page 17



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
fiscal deterioration. These measures included: postponing some current and capital expenditures
- except in the social sectors; accelerating the preparation and implementation of tax reforms;
and rescheduling some domestic interest payments. In addition, the Government did not grant
any general public salary increase. Based on the positive impact of these measures the IMF
approved a follow-up 14-month Stand-By Arrangement on January 6, 1992.
62.   Interest rate and financial system  reforms satisfied third tranche conditions. All
deposit and lending interest rates were liberalized beginning on March 1, 1992, almost one year
in advance of the publicly-announced January 1993 deadline. Once the interest rate formula and
other direct methods of Government intervention in setting interest rates were removed, rates
began to fluctuate roughly in line with inflation (see Tables 4a, b, and 5). However, this trend
was reversed during the first half of 1993 as inflation accelerated and nominal interest rates
declined. Some bankers interviewed for this report felt that BCR may have applied some degree
of moral suasion to bring down deposit rates, in view of the high degree of liquidity triggered
by stronger than expected capital inflows. This perception confirms that the liberalization of
interest rates and higher than expected capital inflows revealed some institutional weaknesses in
the management of monetary policy, which could not have been anticipated at the time of loan
design and which are currently beginning to be addressed by the authorities.
63.   More specifically, under a system  of market-determined interest rates, monetary
authorities can influence rates in response to policy objectives through the use of open market
operations. In El Salvador open market operations were not formally introduced until late 1991
(see Table 9). So far, the limited size of the local money market precludes large operations.
In 1993, the Central Bank had to resort to increasing the reserve requirement rate to 20 percent
from 15 percent and requiring banks to invest another 5 percent of deposits in the form of
government securities (CEM's), to neutralize part of the capital influx (see Table 10). The cost
of absorbing funds from the financial system also added to the BCR's operational deficit. While
the introduction of floating interest rates removed market distortions, it may have strained the
monetary authority's ability to implement policy objectives. The potentially adverse effects from
this institutional weakness have been mitigated by moderately low inflation rates; nevertheless,
continued increases in liquidity could result in additional intervention by the BCR. Without the
capability to effect open market operations, such intervention may have to be in the form of
reserve requirements or forced placement of government securities. The Government is fully
aware of these weaknesses and has placed the strengthening of monetary policy management as
one of the priority policy areas to be addressed in the next stage of adjustment.
64.   The management of the privatization of the banking system exceeded performance targets.
The shares of two banks, Banco Agr(cola and Banco Cuscatldn were offered to potential
investors in November 1991 and the sale was completed during 1992 (see Table 6). Both banks
have reported healthy profits during the first half of 1993. Clearly the cleanup of the loan
portfolio through FOSAFFI was pivotal to their positive performance. Market demand for the
Page 18



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
banks' shares remains strong, as seen in recent prices for Banco Cuscatldn shares in the informal
market of c250, which is sharply higher than the initial book value offering price of c120 per
share. The shares of the privatized banks are expected to be listed in the stock exchange once
the remaining institutions have been sold. At the time of this report, all state banks and two
financial companies have been privatized and the remaining two financial companies are in the
process of being sold.
65.   A few minor incidents occurred during the sale of the banks, but these were diligently
resolved by FOSAFFI. One of the objectives of the privatization was to ensure widespread
ownership of capital in the banking system. For this purpose investors were limited to 5 percent
of total shares outstanding, and purchase of more than one percent required registration with the
Superintendency.  In the case of Banco de Comercio, one investor allegedly hired 600
individuals to purchase shares on his behalf. Once they became aware of this problem, the
authorities postponed the sale and annulled those bids. Subsequently the procedures for the sale
of the banks were changed to minimize the possibility of similar attempts at collusion. The
revised rules were as follows: (i) 25 percent of shares would be sold to bank employees; (ii) 25
percent to small investors up to c100,000; and (iii) after a sixty day waiting period, the
remaining 50 percent would be sold through public auction. Since the implementation of this
mechanism, the sale of the other banks has proceeded without any notable incident.
66.   The proceeds from the sale of the banks and the eventual recovery of the restructured
loan portfolio is expected to compensate the Government for the financial obligation created by
the issuance of the restructuring bonds. The financial obligation rose because the purchase of
bank shares by investors was in large part financed by the Government and investors were
allowed to purchase the shares with only a 15 percent minimum down payment. The initial cash
payment as well as subsequent loan repayments made by the investors and any loan recoveries
from the non-performing portfolio will be earmarked toward redemption of the original
restructuring bonds. Thus, the Government is expected to recoup the original cost of bailing out
the banks. While this operation appears to be self-financing, the Government still bears the
credit risk of financing the purchase of the shares. A sudden drop in the price of the bank shares
could result in a default on the part of investors who borrowed from the Government to purchase
those shares. Based on the six completed privatizations, the sale price of the shares was on
average seven percent above book value at the time of offering. Although shares are not yet
formally traded, as of March 1994 share prices in the informal market are increasing. As long
as shares continue to trade at a premium, the risk of loan defaults will not be significant.
Nevertheless, future operations of this type should consider lowering the loan to value ratio to
perhaps 60 percent to mitigate credit risk.
67.   Even though the conditionality on agricultural sector reform  was met, there were
significant problems and delays in the divestiture of the agricultural marketing boards' assets.
In fact, only a very modest portion of the BFA, INCAFE, and INAZUCAR assets were actually
Page 19



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
sold (see Table 7). The conditionality itself was weak since it called for initiation of the action
plan for divestiture, when it should have required more substantive measures such as a minimum
percentage of assets offered for sale.
68.   Three problems surrounded the privatization of the agricultural parastatals: (i) gaps in
the coordination process; (ii) lack of a clear understanding of the legal framework for
privatization by both the Borrower and the Bank; and (iii) political concerns. One of the major
reasons for subsequent delays in the sale of IRA's and the other agencies' assets was the
ineffectiveness and consequent abandonment of the Commission on Privatization (CONAP) as
the coordinating agency for privatization. CONAP had been given the legal faculties to speed
up divestiture by sidestepping bureaucratic and ineffective procedures but was not utilized.
69.   With the dissolution of the privatization commission CONAP, the Government activated
a decentralized strategy by which the responsibility for dissolving the parastatals fell to the
pertinent Ministers and the President of BFA. The legal process for the sale of parastatals'
assets varied from entity to entity, depending on the Law of creation of each of them (this
distinction was applied even to individual sugar mills). Thus no common path could be charted.
Some Ministers sought ex-ante legal opinions from the Justice and Finance ministries on the
legitimacy of proceeding with the privatization in the manner recommended by their own legal
staff. The Ministry of Finance also had to approve all valuations of the entities to be sold and
this caused delays due to lack of experienced staff and disagreements on the value of assets. In
addition, the lack of bids for most of the assets was an indication that the Ministry of Finance's
valuations were too high. Unfortunately the valuations have not been modified, even in those
cases where no bids were presented. A more efficient method would have been to allow the
selling agency to adjust the price down to a pre-specified percentage in order to better reflect
market conditions. More importantly, CONAP should have been funded from the start, possibly
even under a TA component, to perform the necessary strategic studies that could have assisted
in defining the objectives and goals of the privatization/divestiture process and the legal changes
required. In addition, some of IRA's assets required additional investments to prepare them for
sale. The promotion of the asset sales also required additional financial resources.
70.   Finally, a lack of leadership and political will to take unpopular decisions also delayed
the divestiture process. Due to the intensity of political opposition to the sale of assets, the
Government preferred to fight the battle over bank privatization and to postpone other
privatizations until the peace process had progressed further, particularly since many of the
assets were in rural areas. Recently the Government has submitted to the Assembly new
legislation that allows the creation of independent corporations that would hold INCAFE and
INAZtJCAR assets allowing the shares to be sold to workers, producers, and other investors.
This approach, which is similar to the banks' privatization program, should help to remove
obstacles to the divestiture of the assets.
Page 20



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
71.   Social sector conditionality was met in substance, even though a technical waiver had
to be granted with respect to one of the three nutritional pilot programs (see Table 11). Two
of the initiatives, the fortified cookie distribution and the weaning food programs, were
implemented satisfactorily. Some delays were experienced in reaching the full 78 municipalities
due to some logistical problems -- such as the amount of time required to develop the cookie
formula and the availability of adequate bakeries -- which were satisfactorily resolved. The third
initiative, to distribute food to the poor under a pilot food coupon program, was not considered
feasible as originally designed in the program. The Government determined that more
comprehensive and cost-effective results could be achieved through a combination of actions
provided for in the national Nutrition Strategy, designed in close coordination with the Bank.
A technical waiver was granted since the overall nutritional program achieved the objective of
improving conditions for the poor. As discussed in paragraph 31, it would have been more
appropriate to include the nutritional component as part of a sector investment project rather than
a SAL. In retrospect it should also be noted that the adjustment program did not generate a
significant negative social effect; strong family remittances, private sector investment, and the
resumption of economic growth contributed to reducing the social cost of adjustment which was
one of the key objectives of the social component.
G.   Relationship with the Government's Stabilization Policies and IMF Stand-By
Arrangements
72.   The Government's economic program  was comprised of both a stabilization and a
structural adjustment component. The short-run objectives of re-aligning the exchange rate in
a free market context, curtailing fiscal imbalances, and reactivating the economy primarily
through export growth and private sector investments were an integral part of the program. The
Government's positive performance in stabilizing the economy during the first year of the
administration led to IMF approval of an upper-tranche Stand-by program on August 27, 1990.
73.   Perhaps the most successful aspect of the stabilization program was the unification and
liberalization of the currency market. During the first half of 1990, the Government unified the
exchange rate and legalized the exchange houses. After an initial devaluation of the colon of
52 percent, the rate quickly stabilized. The foreign exchange system was freed of restrictions
on payments and transfers for current international transactions. While the BCR continued to
intervene on a selective basis, the magnitude of intervention was moderate.
74.   Performance on the latest Stand-by Program  approved in May 1993 has improved
noticeably.  All mid-year 1993 targets were met. The better than expected results of the
program were attributed to: (i) strong capital inflows driven by private remittances; (ii) a better
than expected increase in fiscal revenues, as a result of the VAT and import taxes; and (iii)
implementation delays in programmed capital expenditures, although current government
expenditures were above programmed levels.  With the unification of the budget, the
Page 21



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
Government should have better control over the execution and monitoring of the annual budget,
thus strengthening stabilization efforts.
H.   Sustainability of the Program
75.   The overall success of SAL I bodes well for the continuation of program benefits. One
of the objectives of the program was to reactivate the economy to achieve short-term economic
growth, critical to enhancing the possibilities of reaching a peace agreement and alleviating
poverty. Only through sustained growth can peace now be consolidated. The program's success
in triggering a healthy economic recovery beginning in 1990 greatly enhances the sustainability
of all other reforms both on the political and on the economic fronts.
76.   In the short term, satisfactory performance was achieved in program  design and
implementation, in administering stabilization policies under an IMF Stand-by, and in overall
program results. Structural reforms in the external sector and in the financial system have
strengthened the capability of those sectors to promote the efficient allocation of resources,
enhance domestic savings, and trigger export-oriented growth within a market-determined
framework.  Market confidence in the Government's commitment to reforms has been
demonstrated by a strong increase in private investment which has averaged 16.5 percent annual
growth in real terms during 1991-1993.
77.   The critical sustainability issue related to macroeconomic stabilization program, as
experienced under the three consecutive IMF Stand-bys, has been inadequate fiscal discipline.
Even though preliminary data show that the NFPS deficit (including grants) was reduced to 2
percent of GDP in 1993 from 4.2 percent in 1989, these figures are still significantly above the
levels averaged during the latter part of the 1980s (see Table 1). Weakness in fiscal policy
management can be attributed in part to insufficient tax administration and to Government
resistance to cutting back the public payroll. These problems are exacerbated by a disorganized
budgeting process where different ministries and decentralized agencies assume control over their
own budgets without coordination at the consolidated level. To the extent that issues related to
fiscal fragility are not adequately addressed, further progress in structural reforms could be
compromised.
78.   In some areas such as financial system and trade policy reforms, SAL I made substantial
progress toward the final objectives. In other areas such as fiscal reform and divestiture of
government agricultural marketing entities, SAL II is expected to provide continuity to the initial
reforms in order to move closer to the desired final objectives.  One of the principal
achievements of fiscal reform under SAL I was the establishment of a VAT which is expected
to act as a buoyant source of tax revenues. However, tax administration and enforcement, as
well as consolidation and control over the budget process, were not improved sufficiently to
achieve a sustained reduction in the fiscal deficit, while at the same time increasing net benefits
Page 22



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
from government expenditures. On the agricultural front, the results from the divestiture of the
marketing agencies' assets were disappointing. The modest response of grain production to the
liberalization of producer prices also puts into question the viability of agricultural development
policy if it is based on the promotion of unprofitable activities. More emphasis on agricultural
technical assistance to diversify production could greatly expand the benefits created by SAL I.
Even though financial system reforms have exceeded expectations, weaknesses in the institutional
capability of BCR to execute monetary policy and in the ability of the Banking Superintendency
to supervise and regulate the financial system could result in future sustainability problems. The
issue of specialized versus multiple services banking needs to be reviewed. Perhaps the concept
of universal banking, in which one holding company can provide commercial and investment
banking as well as insurance underwriting, should be considered. Studies of the experience in
other banking systems could provide useful insights on the most appropriate framework for El
Salvador's financial system. The on-going SAL II and the attached TAL propose to address a
number of these remaining issues and possible sustainability and back-tracking concerns.
79.   Since SAL I was tne first operation of its kind in El Salvador, it was envisioned as a first
step in the adjustment process. Achievement of the loan's objectives was not dependent on
completing all the necessary medium and long-term structural adjustments. In fact, most SALs
are designed with the understanding that follow-up operations will be necessary. However, the
success of SAL I in meeting loan objectives depended on how well the loan satisfied certain key
conditions that would in turn ensure continuity of reforms through a SAL II operation. In this
regard SAL I succeeded first in accomplishing the urgent task of reactivating the economy and
second in preparing the Government for continued policy reforms through SAL II. SAL II
addresses a number of policy weaknesses discussed in this report.  In this regard, the
sustainability of SAL I benefits are likely to hinge on the successful implementation of its sequel.
80.   The principal risk to the sustainability of SAL I is the likelihood of political discord or
change in direction of economic policy by the new government which will take office on June
1, 1994. Presidential, Legislative, Municipal, and Central American Congress elections were
held on March 21, 1994. They were particularly important as they included, for the first time
as a political party, the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN), which had been
fighting against the Christian Democratic and ARENA Governments for 12 years, until the
signing of the Peace Accords in January 1992. A second round for the presidential election was
necessary as the ARENA candidate was unable to garner a strict majority. The runoff election
was held on April 24, between the ARENA candidate and the candidate for the Coalition of the
Democratic Convergence, which included the FMLN. Dr. Armando Calder6n Sol, of ARENA,
was the winner in the second round and will be sworn in on June 1. A smooth transition to a
new government in the area of economic policy is critical for the sustainability of structural
reforms. It is expected that the incoming President, whether of the same party or from the
opposition, is not likely to completely reverse economic policies, especially since these have
produced significant benefits in terms of growth in economic activity. Nevertheless, there is a
Page 23



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
risk that a new administration may not support all the policies initiated under SAL I and
deepened under SAL II.
1.    Program Results, Governrment Ownership, and Overall Evaluation
81.   Program Results.    This analysis will focus on the short- and medium-term results of
the program. In view of the recent implementation of this SAL, the long-term benefits may take
some time to materialize and, even then, it may not be possible to separate the structural
adjustment effects of SAL I from those of SAL II (approved on September 1993), or from any
other factors which may in the future induce structural changes. When compared to the expected
results at the time of appraisal, the medium-term outcome (based on 1991-1993 data) has been
stronger economic growth, a higher external current account deficit, and lower external debt.
82.   SAL I provided the discipline that the Government needed to get the program off the
ground, especially for reforms to re-activate the economy through increased private sector
investment while stabilizing the currency, interest rates, and inflation. As the adjustment
program took hold -- particularly financial sector reforms, foreign trade liberalization, major
improvements in tax policy and tax administration, and agricultural sector reforms -- and peace
prospects improved, the economy began to recover. GDP grew by 3.5 percent per year during
1990-91 and by 5 percent per year during 1992-93 while total investment grew by an average
of over 19 percent per year during 1991-93 (see Table 1). The current account deficit, which
represented over 9 percent of GDP in 1989, was reduced to a more manageable level of 5.6
percent of GDP in 1991-93. After reaching 4.2 percent of GDP in 1989, the overall deficit of
the non-financial public sector (after grants) improved to 1.8 percent of GDP in 1993 (see Table
1). End-year inflation, which had reached 24 percent in 1989, declined to approximately 12
percent in 1993.
83.   However, it is important to put these achievements in perspective by comparing them to
trends in the Salvadoran economy during the mid-1970s and assessing the impact of the civil war
on the economy: (i) between 1979 and 1982 GDP fell by 22 percent; real GDP levels are
currently only approximately equal to those of the late 1970s and GDP per capita in 1992 was
still about 15 percent below 1975 levels; (ii) total investment in 1992 was only 16 percent of
GDP compared to its peak of approximately 24 percent during pre-war years; (iii) gross
domestic savings have fallen from a peak of 20 percent of GDP per year on average during
1975-1977 to an average of 0.5 percent during 1992-1993; thanks to increasing worker
remittances gross national savings have decreased less but still fell from an average of over 20
percent per year during 1975-1977 to about 1 1 percent during 1992-1993; and (iv) the reduction
in the current account deficit can be accounted for entirely by the worker remittances, which
currently represent over 10 percent of GDP (over US$800 million); in fact exports of goods and
non-factor services have fallen from about 36 percent of GDP in the late 1970s to an average
of only 13 percent per year during 1992-1993, mostly due to falling coffee prices. High capital
Page 24



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
inflows have complicated macroeconomic management and put pressure on the exchange rate.
On the fiscal side, adjustment is still incomplete; public savings were negative during 1989-1991
and are currently below 1 percent of GDP, and tax revenues are still extremely low at
approximately 9 percent of GDP.
84.   Encouraged by increased confidence in economic and political conditions, private
investment has been growing. As a percent of GDP, private investment has risen from 11.8
percent in 1989 to 13.4 percent in 1993. The success of market-oriented structural reforms
bodes well for continued expansion of private investment especially in export-oriented activities.
85.   Financial sector reforms revamped the banking system, greatly enhancing asset quality
and contributing to increased profitability. Liberalization of interest rates was influential in the
strong increase of deposits in the banking system (see Table 4b). Total deposits at commercial
banks grew by 17 percent in 1992, and by September 1993 were growing at an annual rate of
44 percent. The banking system appears to have benefitted from restructuring and privatization
as seen by banks' healthy profit margins. In 1992, the banking system earned an average of 1.2
percent on assets, or 17.5 percent on equity in nominal terms. This performance is attributed
in part to increased efficiency2, 57.3 percent in September 1993 compared to 74.7 percent in
September 1992, and to improved quality of the banks' risk assets, as shown by the ratio of non-
performing assets to total risk assets of 12.6 percent in September 1993, down from 16 percent
in December 1992, even though still high by international standards (see Tables 12a, b, and c).
86.   Trade policy reforms have improved access to imports of intermediate as well as
consumer products. These reforms should strengthen domestic industries' competitiveness and
facilitate the promotion of non-traditional exports. Merchandise imports have grown at an
average annual rate of 13.8 percent during 1990-1993. The lowering of trade barriers has
prompted an annual growth of non-durable consumer goods imports of 15.3 percent and of
capital goods of 19.4 percent. Export earnings grew at a much more moderate rate of 7.6
percent per annum during the same period due to a significant decline in the value of traditional
exports - coffee, cotton, and sugar. Total export figures (see Table 1) have continued to register
an increase every year (except 1991) due to the strength of non-traditional exports, which grew
at an annual average rate of 15.5 percent (in US$ terms) during 1990-93, but still remain quite
low in absolute terms (US$450 million in 1993). Exports to the CACM have shown greater
dynamism although exports outside the region have posted fairly stronger growth. These indices
confirm that the adjustment program has begun to have the desired effect on the development
of the international trade sector, despite the collapse of coffee prices.
2 Efficiency is measured as the ratio of non-interest expenses divided by net interest income plus non-interest income.
The lower the ratio, the higher the efficiency.
Page 25



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
87.   Government Ownership of Conditionality. Borrower ownership of structural reforms,
a pre-requisite for successful adjustment lending, played a critical role in the success of SAL I.
The thrust of the program had been conceived by the Government prior to assuming office and
the Bank's role was primarily to assist in structuring a feasible set of goals based on the
Government's own structural program. The economic team that worked extensively in defining
the program went on to assume key positions in the Government of President Cristiani and took
direct charge of its implementation. Continuity in the Government's policies was ensured
through very low turnover in key ministerial posts. The Ministers of Planning and Agriculture,
as well as the President of the Central Bank, who played a leadership role in the program's
design and implementation, remained in office during the whole term of this Administration.
88.   Consensus building was made difficult by the political tensions which gripped the country
at the time the Government assumed office. Nevertheless, the Government managed to get
critical legislation approved by Congress. Some of the weaker areas of SAL I were indicative
of a lack of political support and the Government's unwillingness to make unpopular decisions.
These problems were usually encountered with decentralized institutions, those that were outside
the direct control of the central government and were highly politicized.
89.   Overall Evaluation. The overall performance of SAL I in El Salvador can be considered
very satisfactory. The timing of the program at the start of a new Government with a strong
commitment to structural reforms was instrumental in achieving the loan's objectives. SAL I
enabled the Government to define broad objectives, to focus its program around specific goals,
and it buttressed the planning process. Most of the loan conditions were fully met, with three
being substantially met, and only one instance of a technical waiver requirement. The major risk
to SAL I, as viewed at the time of appraisal, was political. Political tensions were high,
especially after the major guerrilla offensive in November 1989. Another risk was that the new
Government did not have a track record in implementing structural reforms. Clearly the results
have allayed these fears. Nevertheless, the potential for conflict or for a policy shift away from
structural reforms still exists, although its likelihood has been significantly diminished. The
success of SAL I in meeting its objectives, and in engendering a close working relationship with
the Government, should set the stage for accomplishing the goals and objectives contained in
SAL II.
J.    Bank and Borrower Performance
a.    Bank Performance
90.   One of the principal reasons for the success of SAL I was the establishment of a close
working relationship between the Bank and the Government.  From  the time that the
Government requested the Bank's assistance in formulating a structural adjustment program, the
staff worked diligently and closely with the Government to identify the critical areas of the
Page 26



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
program. As a result, by the time of loan negotiation, most of the difficult issues had been
resolved. The Bank's constructive approach to the design and implementation of SAL I helped
create a channel of open communications with the Government.
91.   Bank economic and sector work also contributed to SAL I's success by identifying the
structural weaknesses in economic policies.  The completion of the Country Economic
Memorandum prior to loan identification ensured an adequate analytical basis to deal with the
complex issues of structural reform.
92.   Loan supervision was satisfactory in that supervision missions were sent frequently and
were diligent in pursuing remedial actions for implementation problems. Compliance with loan
conditionality was amply documented. The limited extent of variance with respect to program
targets underscores the quality of the work that went into their preparation.
93.   In retrospect, the Government was not fully aware of the potential implementation delays
due to technical, legal, and operational issues.  The difficulties encountered with tax
administration reforms, divestiture of the agricultural agencies' assets, and the elimination of
import and export permits suggest that, in future operations of this type, issues related to the
institutional and legal framework should be evaluated more closely: weaknesses in tax
administration should have been flagged early on so that remedial action could have been taken
sooner, more attention should have been given to the structuring of the National Privatization
Commission so that it could have functioned adequately; and, additional legal opinions should
have been sought during appraisal regarding the feasibility of individual measures. For example,
one of the delays encountered in trade policy reforms was the existence of legislation which
prevented the elimination of certain import and export permits.  In the design of loan
conditionality, greater flexibility or a narrower focus would have been helpful in view of the
Government's lack of experience with structural adjustment programs. Nevertheless, Bank staff
provided advice and technical assistance, both during missions and from headquarters, in the
development of possible options to accelerate policy reforms and meet conditionality in a timely
manner.
b.    Borrower Performance
94.   Undoubtedly both the Bank's and the Borrower's performance were instrumental in the
high degree of accomplishments associated with SAL I. One of the distinguishing characteristics
of the Government's contribution was the amount of preparatory work that had been performed
prior to taking office. By the time President Cristiani assumed office, an overall strategy and
a basic program of reforms had already been developed by a group of advisors in a private
"think tank" who went on to form part of the new government. This team of experts were
situated within the Ministry of Planning and the Central Bank and greatly facilitated coordination
with the Bank during the program. The Government was eager to fine-tune its own development
Page 27



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
program to the requirements of SAL I. Its intentions were to rely on SAL I for greater discipline
in the implementation of the economic program. It also felt that a successful Bank-endorsed
program would enhance its credibility within the international community.
95.   Some weaknesses were noted in terms of the Government's willingness to make
unpopular decisions.  Clearly, political tensions were very high at the beginning of this
Administration. The Government was thus preoccupied with the possibility that some of the
structural reforms could result in popular discontent. In the case of the divestiture of the
agricultural agencies' assets, the Government's lack of action may have reflected its concern
that, since these facilities were in rural areas, their sale to investors could encounter strong
opposition. There was also disagreement within the Government regarding policy reforms, for
example, the Ministry of the Economy was initially opposed to some of the conditionality on
trade reforms. The Government should have provided more explanation of the program to other
public sector entities outside the central government, as well as to private sector representatives.
96.   Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement proceeded smoothly under the loan with
most of the procurement (over 97 percent) below the ICB threshold. Disbursement of the first
tranche was slower than expected because the Government experienced difficulties in collecting
the import documentation required by the Bank disbursement procedures (para. 16). The most
difficult document to collect was the evidence of payment for private sector imports. Under the
liberalized exchange rate system, private importers could make their payments through foreign
exchange houses, which are under no obligation to maintain records of such payments. Similar
delays did not occur in the disbursement of the following tranches because, for the second
tranche, the Government had enough time to collect the necessary documentation, and by third
tranche release, the Bank had simplified, in June 1992, the import documentation requirements
for all adjustment operations.
97.   Reporting and Auditing. The Borrower sent the Bank summaries of progress made
towards meeting tranche conditionality approximately every quarter. However, substantive
follow-up on compliance with tranche conditions was carried out by Bank staff during
supervision missions. The three required audit reports were completed and found satisfactory
by the Barnl
K.   Lessons Learned
98.    Five main lessons can be learned from the experience of SAL I.
Borrower ownership of structural reforms and policy continuity are a prerequisite for
successful adjustment lending. In the case of SAL I, the thrust of the program had been
conceived by the Government prior to assuming office. The Bank's role was primarily
to assist in structuring a feasible set of goals based on the Government's own structural
Page 28



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
adjustment program. Continuity in the Government's policies was then ensured through
very low turnover in key ministerial posts.
*     Political will is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for smooth and timely
compliance with loan conditionality. Possible changes in the legal framework and
logistical issues related to program implementation should also be reviewed during
appraisal. Close agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on the scope of a
structural adjustment program should not be grounds for accelerating preparation and
appraisal of a SAL. In the case of SAL I, the Government had the advantage of a
prepared program prior to appraisal. Nevertheless, some more time should have been
allocated to evaluating implementation capacity because a borrower's willingness to
accept certain conditions, no matter how well intentioned, should be weighed in terms
of its capability to carry them out. An adjustment program involves a balancing act
between speed of preparation and execution, program detail, and flexibility to maneuver
in an uncertain environment. In the case of SAL I, perhaps more time should have been
spent with the Government in reviewing the steps that were necessary to achieve the
program objectives, in order to gauge the Government's implementation capabilities and
hence the appropriate degree of program flexibility, particularly in the case of the
privatization process. Early analysis of the legal implications of complying with some
of the policy reforms may have averted the implementation delays experienced in the
removal of trade barriers, and in the divestiture of the assets of the agricultural marketing
boards. On the other hand, the overriding consideration was the urgent need to support
the Government's adjustment effort.
*     A structural adjustment loan should not include an investment program type component.
Tacking onto a SAL what may appear to be a straightforward project component (i.e. a
non-policy related activity) risks undermining the effectiveness of a SAL.  The
administrative requirements for designing, implementing, and monitoring an investment
project component are quite different than those of a SAL. In retrospect, an investment
project may have been a more appropriate vehicle for implementing the nutritional
program.  Nevertheless, it was felt that an adjustment operation that might cause
additional social hardship should include countervailing measures and, in the end, two
out of the three measures included in the nutritional component were indeed successfully
implemented.
*     Sequencing issues within sector reforms should be closely analyzed during loan
preparation. The sequencing of the financial sector reforms under SAI I may have
heightened systematic risk by promoting new sectoral components, before completing
work in other areas. Financial system reform programs should have followed a step-by-
step schedule emphasizing the commercial banking system first, in parallel to the
strengthening of the Superintendency, followed perhaps by insurance companies, pension
Page 29



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
funds, and capital markets. In general, the speed of reforms should be regulated by the
quality of the outcome.  In this regard, the restructuring of the financial system
components should have proceeded one area at a time. For example, before moving on
to restructuring the insurance industry, the banking system reforms should be well in
place, and the supervisory agency operating smoothly.
*     In designing loan conditionality that involves actions to be taken on a long list of items,
such as elimination of a large number of import/export permits, a broader approach is
appropriate. This approach would help avoid undue delays in implementation of program
components which are not critical to the overall success of the program. Throughout
SAL implementation, the Government demonstrated a genuine commitment to the trade
reform measures. Delays in eradicating the remaining two items delayed tranche release,
while evidence was being collected on the substantial compliance with the objectives of
the condition. In future lending operations, instead of identifying a large number of
closely related individual actions, a broader definition should be used to allow room for
technical judgement by the Bank regarding whether satisfactory compliance meets the
objectives.
Page 30



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
PART H. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'
A.   Global Overview
1.   In 1990, 18 months after taking office, the Government of El Salvador submitted to the
Bank a request for a First Structural Adjustment Loan, to consist of technical and financial
assistance in the amount of US$75 million.
2.    At that time the Government had already started to implement its Economic and Social
Development Plan 1989-94, having made progress with the first part, i.e. the Stabilization
Program, whose main objective was to reduce economic imbalances and reestablish a structure
of relative prices conforming to market conditions, thereby providing the basis for economic
reactivation. The most significant actions already carried out by that time were the following:
*     Liberalization and unification of the exchange rate and authorization of foreign exchange'
houses [casas de cambiol.
*     Establishment of a 5 %-35 % tariff range, with the exception of the 50% ceiling on luxury
items referred to in Annex III to the Tariff Code, and reduction in the number of tariff
rates from 25 to 7.
*     Introduction of a price band mechanism for maize.
*     Elimination of most quantitative restrictions and price controls except on seven products
(sugar, instant coffee, cement, petroleum derivatives, fats and edible oils, wheat flour
and cottonseed).
*     Introduction of fiscal and administrative measures to encourage exports, and start of
negotiations for GATT membership.
*     Introduction of fiscal reforms to increase revenues, adjustments to public service prices,
and actions designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency of the public
enterprises.
*     Repeal of several laws granting exemptions and other privileges to certain economic
activities.
This is a translation of the Spanish original.
Page 31



PCR: Structural Adjustrment Loan
*     Elimination of the complex credit allocation system and raising of interest rates by up to
5 percentage points in response to higher inflation levels.
*     Initiation of a program  to privatize the financial system  and presentation to the
Legislative Assembly of a draft law to rehabilitate bank portfolios, a draft law to
strengthen the Superintendency of the Financial System, and a draft law to privatize the
banks and savings and loan associations.
*     Elimination of the coffee and sugar marketing monopolies of the parastatal institutions
and of the monopoly and monopsony held by the cotton cooperative (COPAL).
*     Strengthening or reorientation of certain social programs to cushion the impact of the
Stabilization Program. Introduction of compensatory actions in the form of employment
programs, targeted subsidies, food for work programs, increases in minimum wages and
raising of the minimum levels of the income tax.
*     Creation of the Social Investment Fund (SIF), with initial funding from the IDB and the
UNDP and contributions from the Salvadoran Government.
*     Initiation of institutional reforms in the health and education sectors, for which technical
and financial support from the World Bank was requested.
3.    The results obtained from application of the above measures may be summarized as
follows:
(a)    Economic activity rebounded vigorously, with GDP experiencing a real growth
of 3.5% in 1990, a rate not achieved since 1978.
(b)   The inflation rate was 19.3%, as a consequence of the rise in the prices of
petroleum and derivatives that occurred in the last quarter of the year; during the
first nine months it was as low as 12.9%. The preceding year it had been
23.5%.
(c)   The public sector deficit fell from 4.2%  of GDP in 1989 to 0.4%  of GDP in
1990; this was the result of a strong upswing in fiscal revenues and a limitation
on public spending, largely the result of the Government's austerity policy.
(d)   The current account deficit (excluding official transfers) fell from 3.2% of GDP
in 1989 to 2.5% of GDP in 1990, and reserves increased by US$120 million.
This was achieved notwithstanding the fall in coffee prices on the world market.
Page 32



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
(e)   In September 1990 an agreement was reached with the Paris Club to reschedule
US$138.8 million in external debts, and external arrears were reduced as
scheduled in the Government's program. In addition, refinancing agreements were
negotiated with Mexico and Venezuela.
4.    These results were achieved despite the existence of such adverse situations as: (i) the
fall in world coffee prices, representing a loss of some US$100 million; (ii) a US$50 million
reduction in USAID's balance of payments support program; (iii) the guerrilla offensive
launched in November 1989; and (iv) the rise in petroleum prices in the wake of the Middle
Eastern crisis. The Stabilization Program received support from the IMF in the form of a Stand-
By arrangement approved in August 1990.
B.    Program Design
5.    The Structural Adjustment Program was designed on the basis of the timetable included
in the Economic and Social Development Plan, the Government undertaking to implement each
of the components in three tranches, January 1991, September 1991 and October 1992. In its
Letter of Development Policy to the Bank, the Government clearly sets out the reforms that it
was committed to carry out and the deadlines for their completion.
6.   In December 1990, 18 months after taking office, the present Government submitted to
the World Bank a request for technical and financial support for the implementation of
adjustment policies in the following areas: trade and exchange, public sector administration,
monetary and interest rate reform, financial sector reform, agricultural sector reform and
programs for the social sectors.
7.    The First Structural Adjustment Loan requested by the Salvadoran Government was
therefore intended to support achievement of the medium-term objectives of the Economic and
Social Development Plan, through the implementation of adjustment policies in the following six
areas:
a.    Trade and Exchange Rate Policies
8.   In the area of exchange policy action would be taken to maintain a system in which the
Colon exchange rate would be freely determined by the market, there would not be a large
number of rates, and the exchange differential between the banks and the foreign exchange houses
would not exceed 4%.
9.    In the area of customs tariffs, the dispersion of tariffs would continue to be reduced,
reaching a range of 5%-30% by June 1991, 7%-25% by June 1992, and 10%-20% by June
1993. It was also proposed to abolish the exemptions granted to the public sector.
Page 33



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
10.   In the area of pricing policy, the necessary amendments to the Law of Marketing and
Price Regulation would be submitted to the Legislative Assembly, as well as the draft Law of
Quality, Weights and Measures; in each case efforts would be made to bring the texts into line
with the price liberalization policy and care would be taken to safeguard consumers' rights.
bl    Modernization of Public Sector Administration
11.   Since it was considered that the success of the Economic Reorientation Program largely
depended on a significant improvement in public sector finances, a modernization process was
initiated, consisting of measures aimed at raising revenues and containing expenditure within
limits consistent with the public sector's new role.
12.   On the revenue side, fiscal reforms were introduced with a view to establishing a broad-
based, equitable and neutral system of taxation, with fewer taxes, making it possible to raise the
level of tax collection.
13.   On the expenditure side, a policy of austerity and administrative integrity would be
introduced. Mechanisms would be adopted to promote a more efficient use of public sector
resources (National Public Investment System), and sector policies would be restructured and
reoriented to ensure efficient allocation to the social sector.
14.   In the area of public savings, a target of 1.7% of GDP would be set for the nonfinancial
public sector for 1991 and of not less than 2% in 1992.
15.   In terms of budgetary policy, in addition to making efficient use of State funds and
promoting savings, the new measures would attempt to stimulate the development and promotion
of the individual segments of society, through increased investment in human capital in the form
of subsidies targeting the poorest segments of society.  To achieve those objectives, the
following actions would be necessary, inter alia: strengthening of control over the decentralized
institutions and public enterprises to ensure that they meet their savings targets; establishment
of procedures to coordinate the design and execution of the ordinary and extraordinary budgets,
with a view to having a unified budget prepared for the Central Government in 1992.
16.   Where privatization is concerned, a Privatization Commission would be set up,
encompassing both public and private sector representatives. It would be responsible for the
studies and preparatory plans for privatization of the assets of IRA, INCAFE and INAZUCAR
and the transfer of BFA's marketing activities.
Page 34



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
cz,    Monetary Policy and Interest Rates
17.   The aim of this policy is to maintain monetary stability, increase domestic savings,
achieve efficient resource mobilization and allocation, and support the functioning of a solvent,
sound, efficient and competitive financial system. A first step would be to implement a policy
designed to maintain positive real interest rates, gradually reduce public sector control over
credit allocation, and develop a competitive private financial system.
18.   During 1991 and 1992, the adjustment formula for interest rates would be revised to take
account of inflation and the differentials between the basic deposit rate (TIBP) and the basic
lending rate (TIBA). The BCR would not create special new lines of credit in addition to those
already in existence, and it was also proposed that the legal minimum non-interest bearing
reserve requirement be reduced to 15%.
d.    Financial Sector Reforms
19.   As part of the process of privatization of the financial system and strengthening of the
Superintendency of the Financial System, a timetable was established for the BCR to submit a
financial package to recapitalize the banks and savings and loan associations, together with the
relevant regulations. As part of this, a mechanism would be activated to recapitalize the banks
and sell their assets, while nonviable banks would be liquidated and their assets transferred to
viable institutions.
e.    A2ricultural Sector
20.   The Government's policy was designed to continue actions oriented toward:  (i)
eliminating price distortions that discriminated against the agricultural sector in favor of other
sectors; (ii) strengthening the private marketing of basic grains; (iii) working for the recovery,
conservation and rational exploitation of natural resources and the environment; (iv) promoting
a more secure system of land tenure; (v) strengthening and reorienting research and technology
transfer services; and (vi) abolishing State monopoly in coffee and sugar marketing and the
privileges exercised by the Cotton Cooperative.
f.    Social Sectors
21.   The social programs, known as compensatory social programs since adjustment programs
impose social costs that principally impact the most vulnerable groups, have encompassed actions
such as those carried out by the SIF. Parallel efforts were to be made to strengthen the social
sectors, emphasizing the areas of health and education. It has also been proposed to implement
nutrition-related projects, such as the fortified cookies project, the weaning formula project and
the food coupons project.
Page 35



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
C.   Goverm-nent Ownership
22.   All the policy measures set out in the First Structural Adjustment Loan appeared in
calendarized form in the 1989-94 Economic and Social Development Plan, and were included
in the request submitted to the World Bank.
23.   The medium-term measures contained in the Economic and Social Development Plan
1989-94 have been implemented each year by the various public sector agencies on the basis of
the annual plans coordinated by MIPLAN and of the Monetary and Financial Programs
prepared, and to a large extent implemented, by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador
(BCR).
24.   The Government's economic strategy focused initially on the implementation of a
stabilization program designed to reduce or eliminate the major macroeconomic disequilibria and
lay the bases for economic recovery.
25.   Because these measures involved a short-term social cost, affecting in particular the low-
income sectors, the Government set up four compensatory social programs (direct subsidies,
community-based services [obras sociales comunales], job creation and household income
improvement), supported by the Social Investment Fund, which initiated operations in early
1991.
26.   The Government's next step was to initiate the necessary structural reforms to make the
economy more competitive, diversify the productive apparatus, and increase the mobilization of
domestic resources and promote their most efficient use. At the same time, it initiated the
implementation of integrated sectoral social plans in the areas of education, health, nutrition,
population, housing, and water supply and sewerage services, which aimed to reduce extreme
poverty through a shift in priorities (giving precedence to primary schooling over higher levels
of education, to preventive health care over curative measures, to low-cost housing over
sophisticated, high-cost alternatives, etc.) and a shift in the level and sectoral structure of social
expenditure, both approaches being designed to target the poorest segments of the population.
27.   As may be seen from the results obtained, the Government brought a vigorous approach
to implementation of the above programs, which achieved notable results and helped to relieve
the situation of the most vulnerable population groups.
28.   The negotiation and implementation of the components of the First Structural Adjustment
Loan provided the opportunity for cooperation and policy coordination.
Page 36



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
D.   Performance and Results
29.   In most cases, the measures set forth in the First Structural Adjustment Loan were
implemented as planned, with a few rare exceptions. It should be noted that the World Bank
was always willing to collaborate and to lend its support whenever a solution was needed to be
found to a problem arising during implementation.
30.   The following are among the most striking results: during the two-year period 1991/92,
GDP growth averaged 4.3% a year, compared with 1.5% over the period 1985-89. Inflation,
which averaged 24.7% over the period 1985-89, fell to an average of 14.8% in 1991/92. The
fiscal deficit, after official grants, fell from 4.2% of GDP in 1989 to 2.5% in 1991, but owing
to the increase in public expenditure resulting from the peace agreements, the fall in coffee export
taxes and the drought, resulting in additional spending in support of CEL, the fiscal deficit rose
back up to 4.1 % in 1992.
31.   The tax reform program made substantial progress, and administrative measures are now
needed to consolidate the reforms introduced, which aim to increase revenue collection through
expansion of the tax base and improved methods of taxpayer monitoring.
32.   The balance of payments also improved in 1991 and 1992, making it possible to eliminate
the delays in external payments, to enable El Salvador to reestablish its relations with its
principal international creditors, and to allow the BCR to accumulate international reserves.
However, the trade balance showed a further decline as a result of the increased liberalization
and opening up of the economy and the more vigorous performance of the productive sector,
and also because of the lack of efficient support for nontraditional exports.
33.   The First Structural Adjustment Loan was an effective vehicle for the planning and
coordination of economic and social policies designed to create better financial and non-financial
conditions for savings and investment, such that both public and private investment rose from
an average of 12.9% of GDP in 1985-89 to 14.6% of GDP over the two-year period 1991/92.
34.   The First Structural Adjustment Loan provided decisive support for the Government and
proved to be a valuable tool in the process of implementation of the various components of the
stabilization and structural adjustment program.
35.   Since the evaluations of the stabilization and adjustment program  have revealed
considerable progress in terms of changes in the economic and social model, the result of
measures introduced by the present Government, and given the Government's interest to pursue
and strengthen its economic and social program, the possibility was suggested of obtaining a
Second Structural Adjustment Loan to help implement strategic measures designed to consolidate
the results obtained and ensure continuity of the Government's program.
Page 37



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
36.   Lastly, mention should be made of the support provided by the World Bank, which made
it possible to successfully implement all the measures included in the First Structural Adjustment
Loan, which in turn enabled the Government of El Salvador to achieve its goals.
Page 38



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
BASIC DATA SHEET
LOAN POSITION
[                     Orieinal      Disbursed            Canceled           Reiaid
Loan ES-3293           75                75                0                 0
KEY PROGRAM DATA
Original Loan Dates               Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum                            10/90                             10/5/90
Letter of Development                            11/91                            01/11/91
Policy
Negotiations                                     12/90                           12/18-19/90
Board Approval                                  02/91                             02/12/91
Loan/Credit Agreement                           03/91                             03/12/91
Effectiveness                                   06/91                             05/23/91
Loan Closing                                    06/93                             06/30/93
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY91                 FY92                       FY93
Planned                                  25                    25                         25
Actual                                   25                    25                         25
Actual as % of Planned                  100%                  100%                      1oo%
Date of Final Disbursement                                                             6/28/93
Page 39



PCR: Structural Adjustment Loan
STAFF INPUTS
(Manweeks)
FY90            FY91            FY92            FY93          TOTAL
Preparation         38.1            31.3                                            69.4
Appraisal                           21.0                                            24.0
Negotiations                        3.7                                             3.7
Supervision                         9.5             16.0            20.5            46.0
Total             38.1            65.5             16.0           20.5            140.1
MISSION DATA
Month/           No. of           No. of             Staff
Year             Weeks            Persons            Weeks
Preparation               April 1990        2                 7                 14
Appraisal                 Oct. 1990         2                 5                 21
Supervision I             Oct. 1991         1                 4                 4
Supervision II           May 1992           2                 6                 12
Supervision Im            Sep. 1992         5                 2                  1
Supervision IV            Oct. 1992         2                 4                 8
Supervision V             Jan. 1993         5                 1                 5
Supervision VI            Mar. 1993         2                 1                 2
Supervision VII           May 1993          5                 1                 5
RELATED BANK LOANS
Operation:                                 Structural Adjustment Loan n
Loan No.:                                  ES-3646
Amount:                                    US$50.0 million
Board Date:                                September 14, 1993
Operation:                                 Technical Assistance Loan
Loan No.:                                  ES-3648
Amount:                                    US$2.5 million
Board Date:                                September 14, 1993
Page 40



El svador
SAL-I Projet ComipieUan Repc
Part m: Table 1
Key Economic Indicators, 1980,1989-93
1980        1989          1990         1991         1992         1993
REAL GROWTH RATES:
Gros Domestic Product (GDP)                   -S.7          1.1          3.4          3.5          5.1          5.0
Gross Domestic Income (ODY)                   -10.8         0.7         .1.7          3.5          2.6          3.5
REAL PER CAPITA GROWTH RATES:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                  -10.2        -0.9          1.3          1.7          3.3          3.1
Total Consumption                             -9.3         -0.4         -0.3          0.6          0.7          1.0
Private consumption                           -9.6         0.0          -0.1          0.2          1.2          2.0
DEBT INDICATORS:
TotalDOD(Miim onUSS)/s,                       911         2,070         2,136        2,174        2,131        1,872
Total DOD/Expet G&S (%) /a.                   71.7        257.8         236.0        233.8        220.5        165.0
Total DOD/Current GDP (%/.) /a.               25.5         41.8         39.5         36.8         32.5         24.7
Debt service (LT+IMF+ST) (Million USS) /b.    95.9        170.1         207.2        246.7        229.3        229.1
Debt savice (LT+IMF+STyExports G&S (NG)       7.5          21.2         22.9         26.5         23.8         20.2
Debt service (LT+IMF+ST/Current GDP(%)         2.7         3.4           3.S          4.2          3.5          3.2
Interest (LT+IMF+ST) (Million US$) /b.        60.8         68.7         84.0         81.1         95.0         92.0
Interest kLT+IMF+STyExports G&S (%)           4.8          8.6           9.3          8.7          9.8          8.1
Interest (LT+IMF+STYCurrent GDP (%/6)          1.7          1.4          1.6          1.4          1.5          1.2
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (as a share of GDP)
Total Investment                              13.2         15.3         11.8         13.8          16.2         16.3
Public fixed                                 7.1          3.5           2.3          2.5          3.4          3.3
Privatefixed/c.                              6.1          11.8          9.5         11.3         12.8         13.0
National Savings                              13.2          5.9          5.2          8.8         10.4          12.1
Public                                       -0.3         -1.6         -0.3         -0.7          0.2          0.4
Private                                      13.6         7.5           5.5          9.5         10.2         11.7
Foreign Savings                                0.0         9.4           6.6          5.0          5.8          4.2
ICOR                                          -1.9         9.9           4.5          3.0          2.7          3.4
NON FINANCIAL PUBLIC SECTOR (as a share of GDP) /d.
Total CurrentReceipts                         14.5         10.3         11.1         11.6         12.4         12.5
Total CurrentExpenditures                     14.9         11.8         11.4         12.3          12.2        12.2
Public Savings                                -0.3         -1.6         -0.3         -0.7          0.2          0.4
Capital Expend. & Net Lending ie.              9.3         4.3           2.2          3.7          6.1          4.4
Overall Balance                               -9.7         -5.8         -2.5         -4.4         -5.9         -4.0
Central Bank Losses                            -            -            1.0          0.8          0.8          0.8
Consolidated Public Balance If.                 -           -           -3.5         -5.2         -6.7         -4.8
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS:
Exports GNFS (real growth rte)                -14.5       -13.5         44.4         -1.6         11.2         14.4
Exports GNFS/CuftentGDP                       35.1         15.4         15.9         14.9         13.6         13.6
ImportsGNFS(realgrowthrate)                  -23.3         6.1           0.4          4.2         13.1          6.8
Imports GNFS/Current GDP                      33.3         27.5         27.0         27.3         29.3         28.0
Import Elasticity                             2.7          5.8           0.1          1.2          2.5          1.4
Resource Balance/Current GDP                   1.8        -12.1         -11.1        -12.4        -15.7        -14.4
Cufr. Account BalanceiCurrent GDP             0.0          -9.4         -6.6         -5.0         -5.8         -4.2
TermsofTraoelndex(1989=100)                   116.4       100.0         84.3         85.4         75.2         76.8
PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE:
Consuner Price Index /g.                      18.6         23.5         19.3          9.8         19.9         12.0
Nominal Exchange Rate (CIUSS)                 2.50         6.50         7.59         8.08         8.37         8.73
GDP (million USS):                             3,567       4,958         5.409        5,915        6,554        7,587
/a. Historical data through 1991 are from World Debt Tables 1992-93. Projection years based on DRS pipeline plus new lending.
Ib. In accrual basis; "LTr=Iong term debt; "Sr=short term debt.     /c. Includes changes in stocks.
Id. Excluding grants.                                               /e. It is net of capital revenues.
if. Overall NFPS Balance plus Central Bank Losses.                  Ig. Annual change of End-year CPI.
Sources: Central Bankc of El Salvador and World Bank estimates.
Page 41



Prv jea Cmph- R-
Part IlL Table 2
Tariff Structure, 1988-92
:1988                  1989       :99                :              199                    1992 
IJunweIuhad[   Comfiat Uuweifitd :Ca         Undmgbed   aelftddeat U1waighXtd  Coeffidewt  U     _ Wkigd  ConIICent
: t  Mea.  at.Varldont  ; ;Mea   I otVIaioaa :ea. !      of VIation l   MeaN a  otvrk     ::o  Mm: of Vat
Whole Economy          36.9       116.0       20.4       85.3       17.8       76.4        17.7       74.1        12.5       66.4
Agriculture           39.0       99.7        20.4       91.2       17.2       76.7        13.9       72.7        11.5       62.6
Mining                10.4       44.2        6.9        53.6        6.9       53.6        7.5        60.0        7.3        61.6
Manufacturng          37.2       116.1       20.6       84.5       18.0       76.1        14.9       73.8        12.6       65.9
Consumer Goods       59.2       90.2        29.5       62.7       24.2       56.2        20.0       57.5       16.2        53.1
IntermediateGoods    21.8       114.2       14.4       91.0       13.8       85.5        11.6       78.4        10.3       68.9
Capital Goods        21.5       103.3       14.0       99.3       13.3       94.7        10.8       85.2        9.S        74.5
Minimum Tariff          0.0                   5.0                    5.0                    5.0                   5.0
Maximum Tariff         290.0                  50.0                  35.0                   30.0                   20.0
Number of TariffRate    25                     6                      5                      5                     4
(5,10,20,30,40,50)     (5,10,20,25,35)        (5,10,20,25,35)        (5,10,20,30a/)
Exceptions: Part m and PL-480 imports.
(Purt I d 11 can be mndid by Mbtiam  der  iie Pat m requrcaCnional ap  C nl).
at The 30 percent ff rate applies ol to leatder, kgnIe and cadonfct  good,.
Sore: S"Muctral Adjuamtnt Loan 11 (LN 3646-ES) approved on Sepember 14, 1993, Page 30; and Minisay of Econony, Table No. 16.
Page 42



Part III: Table 3
Central Reserve Bank Interest Rates, JaL 92-Oct. 93
-  -  -: -Me::u- X992 -    :             -: -______                                1993-
III". ::  - - &Medkm Etd   j   -  AR Oth a Usen                     BaRk   E.l .  .8k. :                    0        F_mi1 Ins .,
I~~~~~~~~RZEs                                 eArt  eSh                 Shant  bu-MeLang  -  InttbX-Sort~  ;htLm
its"        Tom          -Term        Ten tTee-                 Rate        -      Ter       m :-Tenm              -To
January       13.50        12.50        11.50        14.50        13.50        14.25        15.25        14.25        15.25        14.25
Febnay        11.50        10.50        9.50         12.50        11.50        14.75        15.75        14.75        15.25        14.25
March         11.50        10.50        9.50         12.50        11.50        16.25        17.25        14.75        15.25        14.25
Apil          11.00        10.00        9.00         12.00        11.00        16.50        17.50        16.50        17.50        16.50
May           10.25        9.25         9.00         11.25        11.00        16.50        17.50        16.50        17.50        16.50
June          10.00        9.00         9.00         11.00        11.00        16.50        16.50        15.50        16.50        15.50
July          10.00        9.00          8.00        11.00        10.00        15.75        16.00        15.00        16.50        15.50
Augus         11.00        12.00        2.00         14.00        10.00        15.25        16.00        14.50        16.50        15.50
Sqepebe       11.00        12.00         3.00        14.00        10.00        14.75        16.00        14.00        16.50        14.00
Ooober        11.00        12.00        9.00         14.00        11.00        14.75        16.00        14.00        16.00        14.00
November      11.75        12.75        9.00         14.75        11.00        14.75        16.00        14.00          -
December      12.50        13.50        9.00         15.50        11.00        14.75        16.00        14.00
Souroe: Central Rerve Bank of El Salvador. Moneary OpemUions DepartmenL
Page 43



2 Solv4o
SAL-1 Pmoge Co_pleton Itepoo
Pail III: Table 4a
Commercial Bank.: Internst Raten
(Jan 1991-Swpt. 1993)
(Averug Monthly Razec)
l.a.    Fa    M.,.   Apr.   MY Jua.   Jut,   A.    .M    OeL                   4...   D-    Jua    Ftb.   M-.   A.   MAY   Ju~   JTA                  I A,&Oct   NoI    Due,   ha~  Fuk   h0Mar. I    .                           Jut    iIt
2.D13--dfDl-.po           000    0 00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00D   0.00    0 00    0 00    0.00    0.00    000    0.00    0 00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0 00    000    0.010   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000D   0.00    000    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2 Suvtew Depon
'NOW Aooot.            20 00   20 D   000 20 00 000   20.34   1032   20217   10.17   10 17   107 1     07 1000  0  00 933    0 40    0 30    7060    7.30    7.30    7.30    7.40    7080    7010    7090    7.80    7080    7.00    7090    7.60    7350    7.07    7.07    7.07    7.07
bS*VU.pDq.2            220    22DII00   2200   20.0   22.36   22.34   20217   20 17    7.00    0 67    3.33    3217    4 67    3.00    1.27    7.67    7.33    7.33    7.33    7.33    7.67    7067    8.00    8.00   20.67   20 33    7 73    7.50    4.83    4.67    3215    9.25    9.23
3. Too Dopotit
* 30 dy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 ----------4.06   13.23   12200
b. 60 duyt              1470   24750   2470   24 07   24213   2427   24 22   24217   24.02   23090   12200   12200    222 10 205   20.30   20.35   20.30   20.30   20.40   20 40   20.75   22235  2460   26040   2600)  23.00   23 00   23 00   26.28   26.63   24.30   230 2S 2.94
e. 00 duy   -       ---                                       --                      ---                                       --                       -    040   20.30   20.0   22.0 1130II0   2300   25.090   24 i    1.23 23. 25 123 2325   26.29   24.38   24.5   04.00   23.22
d 20O.Iy.              260  200        26 00   233O    5 7   25 40   23.30   23.27   2409   24.36   24.46   23 38   12296   2230 1 220   t 205   20.23   20.25'  20.55   20.70   20.70   1223   22.73   24.50   13.00   26.23   25.30   23.30   23.30   20.06   26.06   24.7124 34   2330o
.. 250 dos--                                                                                       --0060   20.73   20 73   22.30   22.00   23.70   23.73   24.30   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   25.92   24.78   24.47   23.70
fI O0dy.               28000   200    20-D 100   27214   27.00   27 02   2604   23.40   23.02   24095   230 28 3.46   1 2202    20.0  20.00   20 00   2000   20.00   22.00   22.00   22.73  123.23   23.30   23.00   26.23   26.30   26350   26.30   26.23   13.72   14.97   24.75   24 00
Z 3600y.y               29 00   29 00   2900   26.30   26 79   1646   25213   23 00    9 91   1437   23.0  0 207        90    20t.20    9.60    900    9.30   20.30   20 40   30 40   22.75   22.50   13.00   23.00   15.30   26.50   25040   27.40   27.50   24 56   24.06   23.13   23.78
hmsoeuthtooeyt.c--                                                                         -               --3 29
4 .3 Ytc lipoat CUt       000    0 00    0 00   29214   2000   29 02   2700   24216   26 33   27 92   12229   12227   22.33  12270   22060   22.40   22.40   22060   221.07   22.05   12270   23.30   23.03   23.23   26.30   26.30   26.90   27.30   23 63   23.38  27.0.4  2700   26.00
M-m
CP2e,onti.Iytoerug                  10 606   250    1321   14241227    24 9    26.9   2621   243    22.3           90     0 63    8.4    7.3    0.2    6.7    712        6 6     9 6    24.4   27.0   29.9   29.9   22.0   22.0   22.3   20 6    22.5   23.4   23.3   20.2   24 9
H-k.     of El SW-".lot M,uatmy Opmuson 1Dupteet
Part Ill: Table 4b
Comnmercial Banis: Deposits
(ins. 1991-SqpLI993)
(Average Monthy in Mfillions of Coloncs)
______________   ~J..   Itb.   M..   A.           4        ut,.2   haL   A.   Isew. Iie                             m ha    k  I MwnIAr 1m               ..-Jt  Ia W     f !IOn   Due,    ha    Pu.k   lar, IA. JUflJut  Ja                                           
2. Demad Depot,          2,005   2252   2,209  2,060   2,265   22175   2,932   2,9-7   2,233   2,957   2,266   2,302   20496   2,2714  2.292   2,323   2,619  2,390   2,494   2,702   2,622   2,522   2,309   2,840   2,003   ,669   2,93   2,929   3,220  5,291   3.177   5,230   3,329
2 S-oo6 Depot?.           2.602   2,727   2,037   20160   2,962   3.043   3,246   3,260   3,367   3,425   3,402   3,772   3,933   3,323   3,746   3,900   3,99    4,059  3,963   4,080   4,296   4,392   4,404   5,060   4,428   4,462   4,708   4,827   3,223   5393"   3,20    3.29    3,330
* NOW Acott.            2,6-46   2,646   2,769   2,023   2,922   3,020   3,226   3,227   3,336   3,377   3,435   3,734   3,09    3,494   3.702  3,845   3,962   4.003   3,40   4,062   4.171L  4,364   4,372   3,027   4,305   4,222   4.302   4.610   5.0121  1,232   5.176   5,156   5,323
b3mo,inwDepout            377      32      00     535    49       23      30      3 5     29      30      3 7     37     42      39      44      35     23      36      24      26      24     27      33      43      32    252    2017   227    202    244          32      37     27
3 r.- Depot'             4,3 39   4.427   4,506   4,557   4,694   4,007   4,755   4,029   4,024   4,029   4,056   4,702   4,022   3,920   3.985  3,999   3,99    4,270   4,270   4,424   4,332   4,690   4,853   4,922   5,164   5,293   3,796   6,029   6,637   7,284   7,694   7,003   7,6640
a 30dy. o-                                                                                 -                                                                                       -90    532                                                                                       476
b  0 d..                 207    270    270    293    263    224    369    322    370    427            40-0   409    427    762    626    027    020   2,069   2,054   2,025   1.037   2,033   2,269   2,333   2,022   2,733   2,497   2,448   2,332   2,900   12,120   2,862   2,0233
c. 90 dus.           .         .        .        .        .        .        .        .                        .       .      ..                    .      .     02     297    294    293    225    292    335    430    437    492    439    472    300    497    343    360
d220 doyt                229    230    224    324    320    323    440    357    376    304    437    427    426    227    403    402    426    372    295    294    320    279    243    276    248    247    245    230    249    232    222    243    293
.15Odoy.                     - - - - - - - - - - -.-- - -5   17   2 7   26  29  27   2 5   24  27  27  24  34  50o  33  33  36
20 10 dype             3,507   3,607   3,637   3,426   3,772   3,907   3,527   3,702   3,733   3,707   3,720   3,630   3,030   3.067  2,727   2,369   2,443   2,463   2.537   2,640   2,720   2.847   2,048   2,629   2,522   2,694   3,333   3,622   4,294   4,226   4,200   4,263   4,322
a 300 dypt                336    429    4753534    432    440    429    350    337    322                308    325    322       65    239    200    270    239    257    234    253    274    267    104             242    239    282    200    230    292    296    267    240
63Y StDupo.A C-              0       0       0       0      0      221    00    245    223    222         227    276    242    205    220    224    226    220    237    246    232    277    264    263    263    266    270    273    329    328    339    376    460
Towo                       9,024   9,295   9,432   9,300   9,020  20,224   9,922  20,222  20,374  20,422  20,737  22,270  22,400   9,922  20,232  20,420  203217  22,047  20,972  22,450  22.622  223949  22,033  23,006  22,430  22,690  13.677  24,060  23,290  26,200  16,428  26,403  26.70
So-ot Catrul Rutre B.&h of El S2vsd&, Meefy Olpatbwm  Depaubt,u
t2



El SWM4"
ML41 h19 C w- Rr
Part HEL Table 5
Da.Lag System lmteruI Roate
(JAly  M98-Od*y R-9)
N 0OW Aa.*.Q                  100 I3I0   l0o"        *0 35   0.20   10.20  10.24   1022   Io22   *020   *030    901   0.34    1.46    7.90   1.39   731   7230    7 30    7.42    144    7.04    7.44   7.04    7044    7.44    7.02    1.52   7.21       * I5   2*5    7.12
b.3- SuiD.pmi                 IS00  *30    3200        1135   11.33    340   *0.0   IS."2   11.21   I110   MIS3  it0.2       7 a 8   81    4 0.44   7.05   7 70    1084     20  7.24    740    134   0.00    100    0040   I.04    0.11    &II   864   08        3.70    0.38
2. TIMDRqi
L-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *4dyg1.01  14.01  13.76   12.79
h. 404.3                       113.0 14 0   1430      132 931427   14*17  14.40   14.22   14.14   13 71  13240   311*7   *.01  *005   10.43   01.33   IOU30 044 0 340   *0.14   *0.00   *10.1   *5.40   *.13  13.31  *5,40  15.03   35.47  1432 1 *324   14 32  1360
004.&P                           -           -       1434   34.3   34 70   140 *5 437   1434   13094   1246   *1.81*1.15   10.80   *0.35  *0,23   *0,32  *0.48   10.20   10.63   11.04   12.82   35.4   14.20   IS."0   *58   15.50   1353   1017  13213  14.42  1334
a. *2O4.ap                    13 00  3400   34.00    135.41  *S5.1   15.24   *5.10  14JI1*4.318  14.21  12.81   1205  I13    10.07   *0-0   1017  1028  *0417*00   *0.82   11.32  13.02   ISM0  I3A0   *5.72  15.53   1535   *5.22   18.04  *5.24  *4 34  *4.20
a.    .p-                                     -      350 dy        S 135.04   33.80   1540   *.11   *4.08   3044   11.20   *2.32   11.34   ISM10.*1*   10.0*   I0on   *008   1.7*   I0."   11*53   3SM10  4.13  *530   IS.M   10.01    0 1 0-1U210 505   15.17  3400   14.33
1300O4.3.                     13300  *00  *00 law    *1 *3 7.08   10.38   1.00   15.48  13522   34073   *3.40   32.54   11.33   *0.111  18.13   0.05  *0.22   300    *3 1.00   11.21  11.70  *3.0*   14.18  15-3713034   *0.50  *0.51  1640  15.76   *2*16  1400   1461
a M04dy.                             *01900   1900     1002   *6.47   *336   13.82   *200   14.71  *4.10  12.14   *337   10.64   *0.37    9.8    0.00    0.67   *023   *0 33   *0.40  *HAS   210.1    *.41  14.15   152910  ur     1.00  135.94   14.481  14.26  14.01  13.80
k U~ma                                                 20 1.00  15.02   15.2*   13.00   14.00   34.640   *33    3214   1 3*31  *0*15  *0.03    00 0100    040   1011  1303   *042   35.14   *2.48  *1331  14.11  14.43   14.33  *4.32   *34   14.33   33.8  1 3321333
3.   rv I4 mp.~.a  -.U                                         *000   **8      1.031JM 10*   I *22   *5.52   14 71  *23 5    2U    13220   11.71  1148   *143   *30*    L1.0   12*1  1200   142    35471 3020  *164   3.72   17.21  17.44   3240   17.17  1002   *0.72
I.  11* a j.                    7-00 2000   20 00      20.0   20 00  20 00  20 00   22.00  20.00   *038  *1301  *7.02   *0*17  *0.00   *4.0   *SM10        9    *500   *3.00   *640   *60.4   *0-37  *173*   t040  *0.43   *0s.03  22.33  2032  *100   *0.44  19.23  *t003
2. M4.i..  mL-(1~3 y.) *1700 2200   22.00              2*10   2*00   20.00   2000   2000   20.00 I. *        1.5 1 *3    *7.02   *6,*7   *4M10  *.00    35.31   *0   1350    *5.00   *000  1*00   *165   I7I6   32.14   *0.45 1.3 30.42 24   23038    t f -IM *0871811 
2. L-qT.u*..@ 33,u.)            *3-00 22090   2200      *971*  *2.4*     43   *34    3*1,132   *2.35   *200   *210   *7.071 *.17  14 00   *Os  *50   13500  1350    *3.M    *00   *0.8   *6.22   37.07   *8.77   3030 I *46 0 303    2020   2000   It935   It2 30 .13
4  *vwmk8 *. .             ...                                       ..                      ..                     3.47   1341  *3.02    8175   0.18   0 24   9042    9.40   9.73   10.34   II-S5   14*13  *4175   *476   348II13704   35.4713 *22   *280   30.22   *4.24
14.-
CPI .A2y...                      *3tW1)0 *02)0  *3.00    *4.2   *2.7   14.9   *0.0   *6.1   14.3   11*3       03 a    3.3    3.4    73      0 .1    0 7    72       40    04 6 *4.4   17.0   *03    10.0   22.0   210    21*3    204    231    234   222    3 20    *4.0
Sama Cww   a.. D.k *(E 5dk.1. Mo. " 4a0yparam Daoaa05
LA3



El Salvador
SAMI Priojcw Completion Rcwt
Part III: Table 6
Privatization of Banks and Savings and Loans
(In Current Colones)
............--00-;                                        0        ::- C.iot  D m   C e  .    aldo     C         A             C jT
1. Total Value of Shares Sold       169.60       189.80       67.40        154.20       175.00       101.80       89.80        93.00      1,040.60
a. Millions of Colones
Employees                         32.60        20.60        11.30        5.60         18.30        10.30       12.90        17.10        128.70
Others                            137.00      169.20        56.10       148.60       156.70        91.50       76.90        75.90       911.90
b. % of Total Shares Sold
Employees                         19.2%        10.9%        16.8%        3.6%         10.5%       10.1%        14.4%        18.4%        12.4%
Others                            80.8%       89.1%        83.2%        96.4%        89.5%        89.9%        85.6%        81.6%       87.6%
2. Total Number of Shares Sold     1,474,176    1,522,320    505,351      1,064,888    1,419,901    652,292      493,473      525,713     7,658,114
3. Averagc Value Per Share Sold      115.0        124.7       133.4        144.8         123.2       156.1        182.0        176.9        135.9
a. IsL Auction
Minimumpiicepershare                 -           -          134.79         -          126.09       147.11       185.55      167.36       760.90
Maximumpricepershare                 -           -          172.00         -          128.00       164.50      280.00       306.00      1,050.50
b. 2nd. Auction
Minimum priccpershare                      -            -            -                  -          147.11      Auction      167.36       314.47
Maximum price per share              -           -                                                 205.00     25-Dec-93     168.00       373.00
4. Datc of Initial Sale            Il-Nov-93   11-Nov-93    30-Mar-93    19-Oct-93     19-Oct-93    26-Jul-93    23-Aug-93    4-Oct-93
5. Number of Shareholdess            4,539       4,356        1,532        2,260        2,115        2,114        1,451        1,408       19,775
a. NcwShareholders                  2,850       3,093        1,226         1,623        1,661       1,651        1,181        1,183       14,468
Employees                         1,006        818          469          332          835          567          406          396        4,829
Others                            1,844       2,275         757         1,291         826         1,084         775         787         9,639
b. Old Shareholders                 1,689        1,263        306          637          454          463          270          225        5,307
6. Financing of Sares Purchased      142.10      144.50       55.00        105.00       116.00       48.00        65.40        65.70       741.70
(Millions of Colones)
11 BFA and Bano HipoacArio awe d only Bafks still to be piivabzed.
/21 AdIacd is die only Savings and Loas stll to be privatzed.
3/ Miwmum price was dcamined by Book Value.
c&      Source: Central Reservc Bank of El Salvador, FOSAFI Deparinent.



m Suludor
SALUPin  CaakURqmi
Part MIb Table 7
Divestiture of IRA, INAZUCALR, INCAFE, and Commercial Operadons of BFA
(Current Coloe)
As of Novenber 1993
Aas.ts               Valise ~~~of Asseta        AsesS1              Pnfar
of TotalSold:.
Insltuto Regulador de AbastedLmdntns (MRA)
Usudtan Stora geP P.711,001.09                                             S,712,000.00          13.7%
Gu)ymango Storge Plt                               6,927,4S8.50
SanSt Ans Stomae Pla                               5,76S,540.07
Centro de Acopia do Zac7-ecoiuca                   3,72S.742.25
La Uno Stag Plant                                  3,054,313.25
Centro de Acopio de San Jose El Camso               1,992Z721.00                 -
Centro de Anopio de Abuachqpan                      1,719,382.40           I,S00,000.00           2.8%
Centro de Acopio de Metapan                         1,572,628.62                -
Silos San Juan Opico                               1.416,485.00
Castro de Acopio de San Isidro Cabanas             1,311,935.62            1,312,000.00           2.1%
Cantro de Acopio de San Vicente                    1,297,U30.00
Centro de Acopio de Mercedes Umam                  1,051.727.79             1,100,000.00          1.7'/.
Total IRA                                          38,552,795.59           12.924,000.00         20.4%
Banco de Fomento Agopeaario (BFA)
San Radel Cedros Gins Processing Plant             19,374,403.00
Kilo 5 Gains Processing Pbnt                       19,019,4U4.16
Sitio El Nino Prcessing Plant                      15,123,476.45
Sirama Cains Processing Plant                      10.561,S65.00
Iinueble in San Migudl                             3,822,446.00            3,822,446.30          6.0Y.
Inmueble in Usdltan                                2,466,066.91
Total BFA                                          70,367,746.52           3.322,446.30           6.0%
INAZUCAR
La Caban, Aguilau, San Salvador
Cbaparrastique, Can  El Jute, Sn Miguel            93,479,680.00
La Magdalen, Cbalcbuspa, Santa An-                             
El Carmen, San Julian, Sonawimto                   36,735,271.70
Cbanmico; Opico, LA Libertad                            -_--
Total INAZUCAR                                    130.214,951.70               0.00               0.00
INCAFE
BenL naeChalchuaa Calle Tazumal                    11,639,111.25
BaL Incafbe-Nahuialco, Canton Isltec
Ben IncafeSn  Ann, Fmnal I Av. Norte               42,651,422.95           2,550,000.00          4.0Y.
BenL Santiago de Maria, Final Calle Bolivar        9,160,570.S5             420,000.00           0.7%
Ben. Verpz Tepetitan, San Vicente
Ben. San Pablo-Amos, Dpto. LA Lilertad
Total INCAFE                                       63.451,105.05            2,970,000.00          4.7%
TOTAL ALL                                         302,536,598.36           19,716,44630          6.5%
1/Inclu/es only aswts for which a vaua   wu availble as of Novanber 1993.
Sourcm   Mistry of Agricultar, BFA. Minisy of Ecomy, and Ministry of Fuance.                               Page 47



El u,d
Part IEU Table 8
Central Government Revenues, 1980-92
(As Percentage of GDP)
-1980-82    1983-84    1985-89      1990       1991:    :1992 .   193 p)
TotalRevenues           12.0       12.4        11.3        8.6        9.1        9.6         9.9
Tax Revenues            10.9       11.0        10.5       8.1         8.5        8.9         9.1
Direct Internal         3.4        3.0        2.7        2.2         2.6        2.5         2.3
Tnwome Tax            2.6        2.3         2.1        1.8         2.0        1.9         1.9
Net Wealth Tax        0.6         0.5        0.4        0.3         0.4        0.3         0.2
Property              0.2         0.2-       0.2        0.2         0.2        0.3         0.2
Indirect Internal      4.0         5.2        4.6        3.8         4.1        4.8         5.3
Excises               2.1         2.0        1.6        1.2         1.2        1.1         0.9
Services              0.3        0.2         0.2        0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1
-- Sales/VATT*x         1.4       2.8         2.8        2.5         2.7i       3.6      -43
Stamp Tax and Other   0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1         -           -
International Tax      3.7         3.0        3.2        1.8         1.8        1.6         1.5
inports                1.0        1.0        1.0        1.1         1.3        1.5         1.5
Exports               2.7        2.0         2.2        0.6         0.5        0.1
AdJ. for Tax Arrears    0.2        0.1        0.0        -0.3        0.0         -           -
Non-tax Revenues         1.1        1.4        0.7        0.5         0.6        0.7         0.8
Soure.: StrujrAl Adjutment LAn 11 (LN 3646-ES) approved on September 14, 1993. Page 26.  (p) Prliminazy.
Page 48



El SLJvad
SALIA Pnejd Cxplctidi  Rcpct
Part II: Tabl 9
Bonds of the Central Reserve BDnk of El Salvador
for Meoor        Reguitalon, July I"m-Srp. 1"3
, d.                        ,  N y.          3...    , .    , M       .               .   ,               ,e     O  l.  ,   ,,,,,,  .    a..     .       .  j   .           . . .     . 1. - -:: '''' ' ' ::'':':"' ''''1'':::'':''':''':'''';::::'''::.'':
-~~~~~~i %                      it    t.P*,  J r 1 4)     _     MJ  0    I                                SS     P:       I:l          :*  :b  .F 1    I^ |-D^ I:DC NO   1. '1 rdI:  I:    W.];:=.......1  ]     a ...   I =.:: I :
MUry7 Stabilkdo. CtuUIa  (CEM) (July 91-Od. 93)
I Banks                      100   1310   276.0  2500   1600  2400   6250   5960   6084   6453   3180   5940  4390   3140    950    340    100   99.2  1718  2986   4788   8494   3942 1,0698  1.2211  1.3303  1.4485
2 FmnCrpucs                     .      .       .                   270    430   1030   1340   127.5   1675   1410   1150   1050    950    900           .              .   391   141.6   1420   1863   1963   2061   2094   1753
3 ImwA' Co q. .                                    .          .    30      15    135    153    262    25.7   1OS    15.9   lOS    112    109          92      6.3    66      56     49      29      12      12      09      09      15
4 Stockt                        .                                                           -      -    128      31   171    358    220    115    115    114    142   651   1397   1255   1018    821    732    853   1492
5 Pub icE r             I             .       .      .       .      .       .                                                           -       *      -  2173   2178   2178                         -       -
TOaWCE1{   100   1310   2760   2500   1600  2700   676.5  7125   7577   799.2  1,0240   7493   5170   4653   2232   1464    307   341.6  410.4  6268  7649  1.1197  1,1t36  1,3501  1.5013  1.6753  1,7744
Fimwdal SOabiIhado  Ed  (July 92-My 93)               .       .                     -       -      -                                                        837 6  690.4  537.4 712 65   2072         -       -      -       -       -
USSCEM (Ja.93-Od.93) |            *            .                             .      -       .      -       .       .      .       .      .       .      .       .   4.73   1024   1735   24.35   24.35   2524   26.54   26.54   26.54
So  : CaCn1 Rfemw Bnk of El Slvados. )4andy Opations D         qUOa6  Bd  D;naa
ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



El Selvador
SAA Prjct Conmpction Repout
Part III: Table 10
Reserve Requirement Rase
Feb. 1992-Sept. 1993
(Million ofColonka)
__:_:_________fti: i  Feb.   |:Mar.   Apr.    :| :Ma    Jun.   | f;             :J uL|  fA m.   |:  Od:: N|v.   Des::c.:  Jan.: FT Feb    M   Ar.  |M   Ju        I JuL  A.    S.
A. Total Deposib                       11,473  31,603  11,749  12,093    *    12.641  12,826  12,823  13,224  13,419  13,646  14,784  14,290    .      15,127  15,483  15.474  15,998  16,467  16,637
B. Required Resaves                     1,952   1,990   2,027   2,050    .      2,177   2,190   2,240   2,254   2,272   2,319   2,403   2,488    .     2,841   3,043   3,212   3,260   3,417   3.619
C. ALual Resaves                        2.042   2,047   2,078   2,125    .      2,330   2,301   2,262   2,392   2,351   2,347   2,572   2,471    .      2,882   3,262   3,294   3,497   3,513   3,673
D. Requiruldnvedlmnt                     123    123      125      127    .        140    138    136    144    141    141    154    148    .              144      163     165     175     176      147
(*% Coeficiene Minima de Invasion)
E. Effective Reserve Rate ((C+DYA)     18.9' 18.7%   18.7%   18.6%       .      19.5%   19.0'h  18.7%   19.2%   18.6%   18.2%   18.4%   18.3%   *      20.0'h  22.1%   22.4%   22.9%A  22.4%   23.0%
Sourcs: Cenral Reserve Benk of El Salvador, Monetary Opeati Deparurmet
O%



m Sador
SAUPre -c-mlaaport
Part Ub Table 11
Nutritional Component, 1991-93
-99-        1992!. -:-    :19:
Fortifled Cookie
No. of Municipalities      17          82          104
No. of Schools             120         485         877
No. of Coolie           277,000    2,794,400   5,525,100
No of Students           4,200        16,975      30,695
Nutritional Formula
No. of Mumicipalities       -          26           34
No. of Health Sites         -          26           34
No. of Beneficiaries        -         1,300       6,462
Soure Ministry of Educaaionm Nanaoil Eicxlion Deparbnam, School Nutrition Unit and
Ministry of Health. Nutrition DeprmuL
Page S1



3AL----"RPwt
Part Il Table 12a
Summary of BankR  and SaviW and Loans Fnaneil Statements, Dec. 91,Sept. 93.
(Millions of Colnage)
Balance Sheet
:,:, . .-.. E :.  .. ..e.       Jan..... --  -.: 1:.-
Ci and Due fSm
CmaUal Resw   Bak                        2,746.6         3,094.1        4,572.5
Odw                                       710.0           790.1         1,069.5
Tol Cah and Due from                    3,456.5         3,S.42         5,641.9
Formig Cu  rruE
Cash and Due fiom Foreign Bans            335.5           463.4          356.3
Cail Reav Bank                            218.3           345.S          343.3
Odwer                                     15212           274.3          390.1
Totl Foreign Currency                   756.0           1,033.4         1,089.7
inJesUnat.
EBods                                    2,557.5         3,797.7        4,597.8
0td                                       56.8            66.2            36.1
Totl Invesunan                          2,614.3         3,s63.9        4,6U3.9
Po-al Lans                               2,3-3           3,910.2        3,267.4
Motgage Loans                            5,070.2         7,102.6        8,234.3
Odw LoAn                                 3,090.1         3,064.8        3,209.2
Total LoA                              10,423.6        14,077.7        14,760.9
Los Resrve fr Loasse                    1,s 2.3         659.9           669.7
Net Ans                                 9,191.3        13,417.7        14,091.3
Premises A F'Led Aeets                     593.5           699.1          314.3
OthrAsse                                  1,266.1         1,068.4        1,272.5
Total Asets                            17,M.1          24,016.8        27,600.0
Liabflites & Eaufti
Deposits.
Demand Deposit                           2.467.3         3,259.7        3,1'3.4
riue Deposits                            7,142.4         7,813.1        10,5633
Saving Deposits                          4,969.1         7,463.2        7.247.0
Total Deposml                          14,578.9        18,535.9        20,933.8
Foreign CurwW.
Depsits                                   385.1          759.1           651.6
Othr Liaties                              150.1          286.4           397.4
Total Foreigp Curry                      535.2          1,045.5        1,049.0
Cmntal Rese Bank Loans                    1,276.3         1,604.2         1,251.9
Oth  Liabilities                          1,17.0         1,251.0        1,769.1
Common Stock                              1,795.3         1,266.2        1,465.7
Surplus                                    92.7            819.0          850.4
Ratined EUning                            -20t3           441.5           -94.8
Ote Equity Acounts                       -1,379.0         -946.6          374.9
Total Liabia and Net Worh          17,375.1        24,016.8        27,600.0
Sou   Fiel Sy= Sup5in,dacy. 'Bolatin E iadiii' Oct. 92; Dec 92; May 93: 1um 93 and Sept. 93.
Page 52'



El Svadvor
SAL-I Project Compiuion Rept
Part III: Table 12b
Summary of Banks and Savings and Loans Financial Statements, Dec. 91-Sept. 93.
(Millions of Colones)
Income Statement
1991            1992             1993
Jan.-Dec.       Jak.-Dec.        Ja-&ePt.
Interest Income                             2,078.0          2,211.1         2,507.2
Interest Expense                            1,764.1          1,481.8         1,633.7
Net Interest Income                         313.9           729.3            873.5
Provision for Loan Losses                   538.9           133.0            154.6
Net Interest After Provisions              -225.0           5963             71S.9
Non-Interest Income:
Commissions                                 106.5           130.9            135.7
Foreign Exchange Trading Income             15.7             45.5            38.0
Other                                       432.7           232.9            320.2
Total Non-Intest                           554.9           409.3            494.0
Non-Interest Expense:
Wages, Salaries & Benefits                  308.9           371.9            407.8
Occupancy Expense                           99.6            100.0            98.0
Other                                       265.4           261.5            189.4
Totl Non-Interest Expense                  673.9           733.4            695.2
Foreign Exch. Gains (+) & Losses (-)          -0.9            7.0              2.6
Net Income                                 -344.8           279.2            520.3
Souce: Financial Systen Superintendency, 'Boletin Eatadiatico." Oct 92; Dec. 92; May 93; Junc 93 and Sept 93.
Page 53



El S.Iv,dv
SAL-I Project Comiplcum Repast
Part HI: Table 12c
Summary of Banks and Savings and Loans Financial Statements, Dec. 91-Sept. 93.
Selected Ratios
1991           41992      i     S 1993
__________- ________- _________             JaIL-D ec.   i       iiJa n.D e c. ;     J an. e pt
Earnig Performance
ReturnonAssets (%)                          -1.9%/           1.2L%            1.9'/.
Retum on Equity (%)                        -114.7%           17.7%/           20.0%
Interest Margin
Yield on EAniing Assets (%/a)               12.0%            9.7/             9.6%
Cost of Funds (%)                           10.8%            7.0%             7.0ff
Intercst Spread (%/)                         1.3%            2.7r/!           2.5%
Net Interest Margin(N)                      -1.4%            2.7/             2.8%
Operating Expense
Persomel Expend. to Oper. Exp's (N)         45.S%            50.70.          58.7%/
Efficiency (%)                             204.2%            72.9%/           57.3%
Asset Quaity
Reserve to Loans (%/6)                      I 1.h%           4.7r.            4.5%
Provision to Loans (%)                       5.2%            0.9!/           1.0%
Non-Perf. Assets to Total Risk Assets (%)     ..             16.0%            12.6%
Reserves to Non-Perf. Assets (fo)             ..             28.0%           30.2'!.
Liquidity
Net Foreign Currency to Assets (%)           1.2V.           0.2%             0.1%
Loans to Deposits (%)                       71.5%            75.90/!          70.5%
Interest Deposits to Total Deposits (N.)    83.1%            82.4%            85.1%
Capital Adequacy
Capital to Assets (%/6)                      1.7%            6.6%             9.4%
Loans lo Capitl ('%a)                       34.7%            8.9'/!           5.7'/.
Soumc: Financial Sytsrn SuperinLcndcncy, -Boin Estudiio." Oct. 92; Dec. 92; May 93; lume 93 and SepL 93.
Page 54



ANNEX I
Page I of 4
EL SALVADOR:
STATUS OF SAL I LOAN CONDITIONALITY
(Loan Agreement conditions are in italics)
__________________                                                                      ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE:
OBJECTIVES SAL I    j                         BOARD PRESENTATION                               SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE                 MTHIRD TRANCIE RELEASE
|1. TRADE AND EXCHfANGE, RATE POLICY
Promotion of trade expansion   Unification of all import tariffs within a range of 5-35% except on wheat.   Satisfactory progress in adjusting  Satisfactory progress in trade reform.
and efficient import         Public announcement of a tariff adjustment schedule where: maximum  tariffs and eliminating import and
substitution, and stimulation    tariff will be 30% by June 1991; maximum will be 25% and the minimum    export permit requirements according
of relative                  tariff will be 7% by June 1992.                                     to announced schedule.
demand for labor inputs
versus capital.
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Met
Elinination of import and export permit requirements on 32 tariff   Elimination of tariff exernptions for    Elimination of import permit requirements on
positions.                                                          all imports (other than investment  all but 16 tariff positions (excluding PL-480
goods) by autonomous public sector   items) and of export permit requirements on
institutions.                      all but 4 tariff positions (excluding PL-480
items).
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Substantially met.
It. FISCAL POLICY
Expansion of the tax base    Preparation of action plan to strengthen tax enforcemnent and expand tax  Satisfactory progress in application
and rise in level of public  base.                                                               of tax enforcement program and in
sector savings, to reduce                                                                        expanding tax base.
public sector deficit in a
manner consistent with
greater public sector
efficiency and investment.
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met
Strengthening of tax
administration and           Definition of a plan to introduce a value-added tax to replace the sales  Satisfactory progress in preparations   Replacement of the sales tax by the VAT.
improvement in the equity of   tax.                                                              to introduce value-added tax.
taxation system
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Met
Legislative approval of the 1991 budget conforming with a public sector                                Review of satisfactory compliance with
savings target of 1. 7% of projected GDP.                                                              savings target established for 1991.
STATUS: Met                                                                                            STATUS: Not met (See text)
Presentation to Legislature of az con solidated
Q)                                                                                                                                          ordinary aind extraordli,7eirv budget.
____________________                                                                                                                  STATUS:   Met



ANNTEX I
Pag: 2 ot 4
ACtIONS TAKEN BEFORE:
[   OBJECTIVES SAL I                               BOARD PRESENTkTION                            {  SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE                   THIRD TRANCHE RELEASE
11I. UNTEREST RATE AND MONETARY POLICY
Gradual elimination of       Elimination of interest rate controls on interbank markets.           public announcerent that all        Elimination of interest controls on deposits
government controls on                                                                             commercial bank interest rates will    with nuaturity ofmore than 180 days.
interest rates and the                                                                            be decontrolled in January 1993.
allocation of credit, and
reduced reliance on coercive
monetary policy instruments
to permit a more efficient
allocation of financial
resources and provide a      STATUS: Met                                                           STATI US: Met                      STATIJS: Met
proper environment for a
competitive private banking
system.                      Established interest rate band within which banks are free to ser deposit  Elinination of commercial bank  Satisfactory review of interest rate policy,
and lending rates. The floor (TIBP) of the interest band applies to deposits  interest controls on deposits and  with reference to the agreed interest
of 180-days maturity and the ceiling (77BA) applies to loans with mnaturity   loans with maturity of more than one   adjustment schedule.
of up to one year. Starting January 15, 1990. T7BP will be adjusted, if    year.
necessary, to be not less than the past inflation rate (defined as the                                   STATUS: Met
annualized rate of change of CIP during the preceding six months).   STATUS: Met
Simultaneously. T7BA will be set at no less than 77BP plus 4 percentage
points. Both rates will be reviewed at least every senester, and adjusted    Satisfaztory review of interest rate  Reduction of maximum commercial bank
sooner as dictated by macroeconomic and sectoral developments,       policy, with reference to the agreed    required reserve ratio to 15%.
interest adjustment schedule.
STATUS: Met
STATUS: Met                         STAT.US: Met
Non-creation of new selective credit
lines financed with domestic
resources. The total value of loans
extended through these credit lines
will not grow in excess of overall
credit expansion target.
STATUS: Met
Uni fea mon of all Central Bank
rediscount rates to levels at least as
high as 180 day deposiz rate (TBP),
except credit lines financed with
external resources.
STATUS: Met



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE:
OBJECTIVES SAL I                              BOARD PRESENTATION                               SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE                  T`IRD TRANCHE RELEASE
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Restructuring of the bankrupt   Presentation to Congress of a set of laws to: (f) recapitalize the  Inplementation of mechanism to  Carry out privatization of banks according to
commercial banking system    conmercial banks and Savings and Loans Associations; rii) privatize the  recapitalize the cormercial banks  law. The Governmtent will have lost its
and creation of a more       nationalized banks; and (iii) restructure the Banking Superintendency.  and initiation of sale of at least two    position as controlling shareholder in at least
competitive private sector-                                                                      banks.                             one comnmercial bank.
based banking system,
complemented by a            STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Met
strengthened banking
supervisory and legal
framework, with the aim of
enabling more efficient      Publication of directives to complemnent the law of recapitalization such  Liquidation of inviable banks and  Implementation of plan to resiructure and
financial intermediation.    that. (f) each bank wdill have capital/asset ratio of at least 10%  (ii) the  transfer of their assets to those banks   privatize the Banco Hipotecario and Savings
total value of loan-loss reserves set aside for the conmercial banks is at  identified as viable.      & Loans Associations.
least 85 % of the required amount estinatedfor June 30, 1990; riii) the
bonds issued to recapitalize the banks will carry a variable rate with a net
yield not less than the 180-day deposit rate (I7BA) plus 29%; riv)
conmercial banks will receive a commission of at least 10% of the amount
of recuperated non-performing debt.
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Met
Definition of a program to rehabilitate and fortfy the Superintendency and   Comnpletion of diagnostic study to  Satisfactory operation of a risk monitoring
the identification of TA-financing source.                          restructure the Banco Hipotecario  system at the Banking Superintendency.
and the Savings & Loans
Associations, and integrate them into
the general regime governing the
conmercial banking system.
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATIUS: Met
Satisfactory progress in
inplemeentation of program to
restructure the Banking
Superintendency.
STATUS: Met
'.



ANNFX I
Page 4 of 4
l_________________                                                                     ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE:
OBJECTIVES SAL I                              BOARDWPRESENTATION                               SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE  J               THIRD TRANCHE  RELEASE.
[V. SOCIAL SECTORS.....
Provision of a temporary     Approval by Legislature to establish Social Investment Fund.        Based on pilot project results,    Expandfortified cookie progran to
social safety net for the poor                                                                   expand fortified cookie program to    remainder of the 78 municipalities. Based
who might be adversely                                                                           1/3 of the 78 municipalities       on pilot project results, expand distribution
affected by the adjustment                                                                       identified as vulnerable. Apply pilot   of weaning formula to one-third of 78
program.                                                                                         project to distribute weaning formula   vulnerable municipalities.
in health post.
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Met
Improvement in capacity to   Apply pilot project to distribute nutritionallyfortified cookies at start of  Agreement with Bank on sectoral
reallocate public resources in   school year.                                                    distribution of budgetary
the Health and Education                                                                         expenditures in 1992 Budget (with
Sectors to ensure a better                                                                       special attention to Primary Health
delivery of basic services.                                                                      and Education), prior to submission
to Assembly.                       Apply pilot project to distribute food
coupons.
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met
STATUS: Waiver granted.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR    :_:___::_:
Elimination of direct        Elinination of all price controls on basic grains at the retail and wholesale  Preparation of program to strengthen   Elimination of all import and export permit
government iptervention in  level.                                                               the private marketing of basic grains.  requirement for yellow maize, rice and
the market for basic grins to                                                                                                       sorghum.
improve production
incentives and reduce public
sector operating losses.     STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUtS: Met
Elimination of price
distortions favoring industry    Definition of action plan to divest assets of IRA.              Bring assets of IRA to the point of  Initiare sale of assets.
at the expense of agricultural                                                                   sale.
sector.
STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Met
Adopt action plans to privatize the  Commence implementation of action plans.
assets of IVAZUCAR, INCAFE and
marketing activities ofBFA.
STATUS: Met                                                         STATUS: Met                        STATUS: Met






::I                                             3                     I i. :1 -,
fr; 1    I      t>  ,I



