E614
Volume 4
Multinational Development Proposal for Gansu
under
World Bank Financed
Integrated Stockbreeding Development Program
(ISDP)
FILE COPY
Gansu Project Office
March 28th, 2002






1. Foreword
Gansu Province is a place inhabited by many nationalities in China-42 nationalities totally,
thereby it will be an important part to address the influence of development and equality on
minorities in the social assessment under the Project. The "Multinational Development Proposal"
(the MDP) is prepared with a view to promote the multinational equality and development'.
2. Minority Overview at Affected Areas
2.1 Minority Overview in Gansu
From of old, Gansu has been a place inhabited by many nationalities. With the historic evolution,
the present layout of nationalities has gradually taken form. There are presently 41 minorities in
Gansu, of which are 9 major minorities-Hui, Tibetan, Dongxiang, Yugur, Baoan, Mongolian,
Salar, Tu and Manchu. They are called major minorities because their populations are larger and
they all own inhabiting areas big or small. The 3 nationalities of Dongxiang, Yugur and Baoan
have above 85% of their respective nationwide populations distributed in Gansu, so they are also
usually called local minorities of Gansu. By the end of 1984, the total population of minorities in
Gansu had increased to 1,600,000.
Being multi-component and widespread, minorities reside in either a centralized or dispersed way
at agricultural, pastoral and forest zones under all the cities and counties of the Province, taking
on a configuration of major cross-inhabitation and minor centralized-inhabitation. By the end of
1985, the Province has totally established 2, 7 and 32 rminority autonomous prefectures, counties
and townships respectively, which are Gannan Tibetan and Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefectures;
Tianzhu Tibetan, Subei Mongolian, Dongxian , Zhangjiachuan Hui, Sunan Yugur, Akesar
Kazakh, Jishishan Baoan & Donaxiang & Salar Autonomous Counties.
For the above 2 autonomous prefectures and 7 autonomous counties, their total area is 170,000
km2, accounting for 38% of that of the Province; their total minority population accounts for 80%
that of the whole Province.
The minority areas in Gansu own not only a vast territory but rich natural resources, including
large amount of fertile fields, extensive grasslands, beautiful forests and resources of underground
rare minerals, water, wild animals and plants. The richness of resources indicates a potential and
prospect of economic development there.
2.2 Minority Populations at Affected Areas
This Project shall cover such minorities of Hui, Tibetan, Yugur, Tu and Dongxiang, of which the
first three are the foremost. In the social assessment, we investigated Saiding and Kangfeng
Villazes-two villages inhabited by the Yugur people-under Hongshiwo Township, Sunan
Yugur Autonomous County; Tanyaogou and Honazeda Villages-two villages inhabited by the
Tibetans and blended harmoniously by residents of the Tu nationality-under Zhuaxixiulong
Township, Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County; Waxia Village-a village inhabited by the Hui
nationality-under Huguan Township and Humagou Village-a village cross-inhabited by the
Hui, Han and Dongxiang nationalities-under Luming Township, Linxia Hui Autonomous
Prefecture (see Table-2 for details).
The social assessment was executed by the Cross-cultural Consulting Center at Zhongshan University. which is also
rcsponsible for drafting this Proposal. See the "Social Assessment Report under Integrated Gansu Stockbrecding
Development Project" for details.



Table-2: List of General Information on Minorities at Counties Investigated
Unit: person
tionality
Han  Mongolian  Hui Tibetan Dongxiang Yugur Salar  Tu  Baoan   Total
.County  \
Sunan Yugur
Autonomous 16,983    316     611   8,390     2     8,820       360    3    35,500
County
Yongchang 227,574                                                         227,574
County   __
Tianzhu
Tibonos 136,671    723    1,408 49,976    25      5     3  11,226       200,525
ounty
Countye  103,867         125,351      T     8, 112                      237,371
Notes:  The data of Yugur, Kangle and Yongchang Counties are from the 4th N ational Population Census
conducted in 1990; the data of Tianzhu County is based on statistics in 1988. All the above data
comes from local county annals.
2.3 Economic Status of Minority Counties Investigated
From the perspective of economic status, among the points of investigation during this social
assessment-Sunan, Tianzhu and Kangle Counties, Sunan County is one in pastoral zone with a
relatively comfortable living standard; Tianzhu is a poor county in the pastoral zone of the Gansu
Corridor, Kangle is also a poor county in the southern mountainous area. In a province-wide
comparison, these three minority counties may basically represent the upper (Sunan), middle
(Tianzhu) and lower (Kangle) strata of county-level economic status in Gansu. This is because,
according to the poverty criteria formulated by the Provincial Govemment, Tianzhu County has
been lifted out of poverty and is running toward a relatively well-off status theoretically, while
Kangle County remains a county under the poverty-support. In addition, this is substantiated by
the GDP, total agricultural output value, per capita peasant net income and other economic
indicators of these 3 counties in 2000 (see the table below for details);
GDP and Per Capita Peasant Net Income at Investigated Minority Counties in 2000
County Name           GDP         Agricultural    Stockbreeding   Per capita net  1
(RMB 10,000)     output Value    output value  income of peasants
(RMB 10,000)    (RMB 10,000)       (RMB)
Sunan County        22, 500          2012            7114           3503.37
Tianzhu County      5,902.16       11,756.24        5,760.57         1091.37
Kangle County        18,524           8723           2345             957
Data Source: "2000' Statistical Yearbook of Rural Economy of Gansu"
Sunan Yugur Autonomous County, belonging to Zhangye District in administrative division, is
situated in the Qilian Mountainous Area to the central south of the Gansu Corridor, with a total
land area of 35,830,300 mu (a Chinese unit of area, I nu=1/15 hectare ), a GDP of RMB225



million and a financial revenue of RMB34 million in year 2000. As summarized by the local
government, the County is a large one in terms of resources and area, but a poor one financially
and a small one in terms of population. In its opinion, Sunan County possess 5 major advantages:
(1) stockbreeding, which is the leading industry of the County as one of the most important bases
of fine-wool-sheep, manifested by the year-end amount of livestock on hand of 520,000 heads
(90% in sheep) in 2000 and 1,300,000 mu of fenced and well-constructed grasslands; (2) rich
mineral resources, including 27 kinds of proven minerals, of which cotton, iron, limestone and
coal are greater in reserves; (3) rich land resources; (4) rich water resources, including 33 outflow
rivers; and (5) rich tourist resources with unique natural and human-cultural landscapes, cultures
and customs. However, in an overview of the whole province, Sunan County is one of those with
the highest per capital peasant net income and those stepping into the relatively well-off status the
earliest in Gansu, with a per capital peasant net income of RMB3,503.37 in 2000, ranking 4h
among the 86 counties (cities, districts) and 2.48,times that of the Province. In this autonomous
county, minorities enjoy preferences in taxation, lending and poverty-support.
Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County, a minority autonomous county focusing on stockbreeding
established the earliest in China under Wuwei District in administrative division, is situated at the
east end of the Gansu Corridor, being one of the 9 major pastoral counties of Gansu with the main
livestock breeds of Tianzhu white yak, Gansu fine-wool-goat and Tianzhu Chakou post-horse.
The County occupies a total land area of 10,723,900 mu, of which the grassland area is 5,871,000
mu, the cultivated area 367,800 mu and the wooded area 2,803,900 mu. Grassland stockbreeding
is the leading industry of the County, enjoying an'relatively advantaged status in the economy of
the agricultural and pastoral area. Upon the annual output of 25,000 heads of big livestock and
155,000 heads of small livestock, the County creates a gross stockbreeding output value of RMB
65.25 million, accounting for 55.8% of the gross agricultural and stockbreeding output value. The
per capita peasant net income ofRMB1,091.37 in 2000 ranks 63t' in the Province, lower than the
provincial average, which shows the County is a poorer one in Gansu Province.
Kangle County, under Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture in administrative division, is located in
the Southern High, Cold and Dank Zone of Gansu as an agricultural county featuring traditional
crop cultivation. In its total land area of 1.6245 mu, cultivated lands of 510,900 mu account for
31.45%. With stockbreeding being one of the major channels to increase income for peasants, the
per capita peasant net income of RMB957 in 2000 ranks 715' in the Province, which makes the
county listed as one of the poorest ones in Gansu. presently, the County Government has already
proposed the basic idea of development to construct a major stockbreeding, forestry and tourism
county based on the advantage of resources.
Table-3: List of Basic Economic Information
ationality GDP  Per capita Total grain  Year end  Year end  Year end  Quantity of
(RMB   net income  output   amount of  amount of amount of feed grinders
10,000) of peasants  (ton)  cattle on hand  sheep on  pigs on  in possession
County              (RMB)                (head)   hand (head) hand (head)  (set)
Sunan Yugur 19,982   3,458    11,650     43,724    508,901     3,523
Autonomous
County
Tianzhu  40,685.6  1,091   47,590.1    125,298    407,208   49,685      433
Tibetan
utonomous
County
4



Kangle   18,524   971.36   59,531.5   36,400     51,600    29,000      470
County
Data Source: 1. "2000' Social Economy Statistical Yearbook of Kangle County", County Statistical
Bureau, April 2001
2. "1999' Statistical Yearbook of Tianzhu County", County Statistical Bureau, April 2000
3. "1998' Statistical Yearbook of Sunan Yugur Autonomous County", County Statistical
Bureau, April 1999
2.4 Social Basics of Counties Investigated
Sunan County is a minority autonomous county mainly in the Yugur nationality. By the end of
1998, the County rules over 6 districts, an integrated agricultural development zone, 24 towns and
townships, 97 administrative villages and 10 state farms. As one of the counties with the least
population in Gansu, the County ranks the 83rd in terms of population at the population density of
1.5 person/km2. In 1998, the total population of the County was 35,8000, of which that of the Han
nationality of 15,800 accounted for 44%. In the County, there are 8 minorities, which are Yugur,
Tibetan, Mongolian, Dongxiang, Hui, Tu, Manchu and Baoan, collectively with a population that
accounts for 56% of the county total. Its degree of urbanization is higher than the provincial mean,
indicated by its agricultural population of 26,300 and nonagricultural population of 9,500, each
accounting for 73.46% and 26.54% (2.7% higher than the provincial average) of the total. With
education, technology and health undertakings developing rapidly, the County owns 58 schools of
all types and levels and a teaching staff of 559 persons, where the 9-year compulsory education
was realized in 1998 county-wide with a ratio of graduation from junior high school of 95.5%.
The County owns totally 36 health agencies, averagely 3.21 doctors and 6.56 beds every 1,000
people; 9 scientific research institutions staffed with 768 specialized technicians. Under the active
policy of freedom of religious belief, the national religious undertaking has been developing. Up
to now, there are 6 temples for Tibet-introduced Buddhism with totally 70 monks, as well as 2
mosques and 2 temples of the Han nationality in the County. With the great development of
infrastructural construction, 3 main traffic arteries, 10 post offices and 3 bazaars have been set up
there, electric power is available to 100% townships under the County. 5 districts, one town and
15 townships under the County are now using program controlled telephones, and 31% villagers'
committees are put through on telephone lines.
Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County is a minority autonomous county mainly in the Tibetans,
governing 22 towns/townships (a Tu township is typical of multinational cross-inhabitation) and
188 villagers' committees. By the end of 1999, the County's population totaled 216,000, of which
that of 16 minorities summed some 80,000, including over 60,000 Tibetans and over 10,000
people of the Tu nationality. With a lower degree of urbanization, the County's rural population
was 186,864 and its nonagricultural population 29,217 in 1999, accounting for 86.5% and as low
as 13.5% of the total respectively. Featuring convenient traffic and well-built infrastructures, the
County has 188 villages open to motor traffic, 185 ones open to electric power and 13 to phone
lines. With fairly good educational and sanitary facilities, the County owns 326 schools of all
types, accommodating 42,898 students at a high enrollment ratio of 99.3%, as well as 38 health
agencies staffed with 553 hygienic personnel of all types, averagely 2.5 doctors and 1.9 beds
every 1,000 people. Under a relatively thin atmosphere of religion, there are 15 temples for
Tibet-introduced Buddhism with 84 monks and 7 mosques in the County, where religious
activities are limited to inside temples only.
Kangle County is a minority county where residents are mostly the Hui people, presently ruling
over 2 towns, 13 townships and 152 administrative villages thereunder. At a very low degree of
urbanization, the agricultural population of 224,954 accounts for 94.77% of the county total. In a
layout of multinational cross-inhabitation, there exist 9 minorities except for the Han nationality,



of which the Hui population of 125,351 accounts for 52.81% of the total county population, the
Han population of 103,867 accounts for 43.76%, that of the Dongxiang nationality of 8,112 for
3.42% and that of other minorities is 41. Apparently on the low side in attainment of labor force,
female labors account for 49.81% of 86,727 labors totally, of which those with a diploma of
primary school, junior high school or above account for 52.24%, leaving the remaining 42.76%
illiterate. The County has realized a rural broadcast coverage of 83% and TV coverage of 85%.
The County owns 191 schools of all types with 1,571 teachers and 36,821 students, 23 hospitals
and 14 bazaars. In a relatively stronger atmosphere of religion, the County Islam Association was
founded in 1982; by the end of 1985, there were 248 mosques, 22 Buddhist temple, one place for
Christianity and totally 267 religionists.
Table-4: List of General Social Information
Iter    Construction of rural   Students at primary     Health agencies
grassroots organizations  and hi h schools
Villagers' Villagers' Rural  Total  Of which: Number Number Establishment
committees teams   cadres (person) schoolgirls  of    of beds  (person)
County   \                    (person)         (person) agencies
Sunan Yugur    97               473    4,993     734       23      235      208
Autonomou
County
Tianzhu      188             1,246  42,898                38     413       648
Tibetan
Autonomou
County
Kangle      152      1,618   2,747  36,821    15,895     23      223      454
County    _   __           I                                          I
Notes:  The number of students at primary and high schools include that at senior high school but
exclude that at vocational senior high schools.
Data Source: 1. "2000' Social Economy Statistical Yearbook of Kangle County", County Statistical
Bureau, April 2001
2. "1999' Statistical Yearbook of Tianzhu County", County Statistical Bureau, April 2000
3. "1998' Statistical Yearbook of Sunan Yugur Autonomous County", County Statistical
Bureau, April 1999
3. Brief Introduction, Cultural Features and Economic Development
of Nationalities at Affected Areas
3.1 Introduction to Nationalities at Counties Investigated
3.1.1   Introduction to the Yugur nationality
The Yugur people largely inhabit Sunan Yugur Autonomous County and Huangnibao Yugur
Township under Jiuquan County. The Yugur inhabitation area, centering on
Hongwanshi-the capital of Sunan Yugur Autonomous County, consists of 3 disconnected
blocks-the east block of Huangcheng District and the central one of Mati, Kangle, Dahe
and Qifeng Districts. The County is situated at a corridor between the north range of the
Qilian Mountains and the Gansu Corridor, long transversely and narrow longitudinally,
south-connecting to Qilian and Menyuan, Counties in Qinghai Province at the Qilian
Mountains, extending to the middle of the Gansu Corridor to connect Yumen, Jiuquan,
Gaotai and Wuwei Counties, stretching west to the main peak of the Qilian Mountains to
6



neighbor on Subei Mongolian Autonomous County, bordering east on Huangcheng 'District
opposite to Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County.
The name of Yugur was decided through discussion by people of this nationality when the
national autonomy authority was set up in 1950s. The word of "Yugur" well keeps the actual
pronunciation in its language and expresses the new meaning of "richness and consolidation"
in Chinese.
The Yugur nationality today originates from the fusing of partial ancient Mongolians and Hui
people. The Yugur nationality is divided into East Yugur and West Yugur. The language of
East Yugur belongs to Mongolian in the Altai Phylum with many language elements of
ancient Mongolian kept along, the language of West Yugur is a Turki language in the Altai
Phylum without any characters. Culturally, East Yugur today follows many customs of the
ancient Mongolians, while West Yugur retains those of the ancient Hui people to a great
extent. Surnames of the Yugur nationality are mainly derived from tribal names, represented
by An, Guo, He, etc.
3.1.2   Introduction to the Tibetans
The Tibetans mainly inhabit Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture and Tianzhu Tibetan
Autonomous County, Sunan Yugur Autonomous County along the Qilian Mountains and Min,
Dangchang, Wudu and Wen Counties in the South Gansu mountainous area. From the
perspective of natural regionalization, the Tibetans in Gansu are mainly distributed at the
northeast borderland of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, reaching to the alpine valley of the Min
Mountains to the east and the north reach of the Qilian Mountains to the Northwest.
The Tibetans has a unified written language, which was originated in the early 7th century
AD and now coexist with many local dialects, such as the spoken languages for agricultural
and pastoral areas in the dialect of Anduo. The dialect of Zhuoni is similar to that spoken in
Lhasa. Among the Tibetans living at the areas cross-inhabited by different nationalities in
Gansu, there have been a lot able to speak Chinese. With the deepening of political, cultural
and economic connections among nationalities, there will be more and more Tibetans able to
speak and use Chinese.
3.1.3  Introduction to the Hui nationality
The Hui people in Gansu mainly inhabit the high and cold regions of the Jishi, Taizi and
Long Mountains and, of course, many autonomous townships, particularly Linxia Hui
Autonomous Prefecture, Zhangjiachuan Hui Autonomous County, which shows the Hui
people are widespread in Gansu with a large population.
Hui is the short form of Huihui, a nationality gradually formed through multinational fusing
both at home and abroad during the feudal ages of China with a history of over 700 years.
Being widespread and highly populated, the Hui people of China has always inhabited
Gansu largely from of old.
The word "Huihui" first appeared in the "MengXiBiTan"-an encyclopedia written by Shen
Kuo in the Song dynasty; however, the word at that time referred to the Huihu people living
around Anxi since the Tang dynasty. In literatures in the Yuan dynasty, "Huihui" had been
distinguished from Huihu. Huihu refers to Weituer, namely the ancestors of the Uigurs today,
while "Huihui" means the ancestors of the Hui people today, the people immigrating from
Central and Westem Asia of different nationalities in belief of Islam. The ancestors of the
Hui nationality are mainly the "Huihui" people who moved eastward after the 3rd westward
expedition of the Mongolians in the 13"h century, as well as Moslem "foreigners" living
abroad in coastal areas during the Tang and Song dynasties. All these foreign nationalities in
7



belief of Islam fused with others under certain historical contexts and finally formed the Hui
nationality in the later Ming dynasty.
3.1.4  Introduction to the Tu nationality
The Tu people of China are mostly distributed in Qinghai Province, some in Gansu, such as
Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County, Sunan Yugur Autonomous County, Yongdeng County,
Jishishan Baoan, Dongxiang and Salar Autonomous County and Zhuoni County. The Tu
people are the descendants of the former Tuguhun people, who have their own language
(spoken only) but also use Chinese.
3.1.5  Introduction to the Dongxiang nationality
The Dongxiang nationality is a Gansu-specific minority, most population of which is inside
Gansu, mainly distributed in Dongxiang Autonomous County under Linxia Hui Autonomous
Prefecture and relatively centralized in Jishishan Baoan, Dongxiang and Salar Autonomous
County, Dingxi District, Lanzhou City and Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture. The
Nationality has its own character-free language, which belongs to the language branch of
Mongolian in the Altai Phylum. The Dongxiang people, in belief of Islam, originate from the
Saltans in Middle Asia in the 13h century.
3.2 History, Cultures and Customs of Nationalities at Affected Areas
3.2.1   History, Culture of the Yugur nationality
According to the historical data, the Huihu people began to live and graze in the Hexi Region
(west to the Yellow River) as early as the Tang dynasty. In 840AD (the 5th year of the reign
titled Kaicheng in the Tang dynasty), the North Desert Huihu Kingdom was ruined and the
Huihu people fled away, "a group went to the Kingdom of Tubo for shelter", which was in
control of the Hexi Region at that time. This group of Huihu people became fused with the
people of the same nationality who had already lived there, and gradually strengthened. At
the end of the Tang dynasty and the age of the Five Dynasties, the Yugur people underwent
their formative stage. In 1226AD, the Mongolians captured the areas where the ancestors of
Yugur had once lived in their expedition westward, then some Mongolian tribes and troops
were stationed these areas and blended with the local Huihu people. In the history records of
the Ming dynasty, this part of Huihu people and Mongolians were known collectively as the
"Sarivigur", who settled in South Gansu and Huangnibao in Jiuquan today in the middle age
of the Ming dynasty and developed into the Yugur nationality today.
The Yugur nationality boasts rich cultural heritages and colorful folk literatures, including
fables, legends, stories, ballads, epics and adages. With traditional sports like horse racing
and wrestling, the Yugur people are also good at weaving.
The ancestors of Yugur believed in Shamanism, Manicheism and Buddhism in succession,
sometimes in a situation that more than one religions coexist. Ever since the Ming dynasty,
Lamaism (Tibet-introduced Buddhism) has become the major religion of the Yugur people in
quite a similar way with but somewhat different from the Tibetans. Moreover, the features
that Lamaism mixes with primitive Shamanism are visible.
Among Yugur families under a monogamy, partially several generations live together, but
mostly 2 generations, where a tent is a unit of family. Children of the Yugur people, whether
their own, adopted or in-law, all have the right to inherit property without being interfered in
by any clansman. In a family without children, the nephew(s) of their own shall be entitled to
the heritage. Uncles are very intimately related with a family, who enjoy special respect. The
8



funeral of the Yugur people takes three forms-cremation (for West Yugur mainly), celestial
burial (for East Yugur mainly) and inhumation (for those living in the foreshore of Minghua
District and Huangnibao in Jiuquan County mainly). As to the festivals of the Yugur people,
the principle one is the Spring Festival for sacrifice to "King Diagur", besides, there are also
some religious holidays.
The Yugur people are used to riding a horse or camel, both men and women are very high in
horsemanship. They are good at hunting and archery on horseback and are fond of drinking.
They all bear good traditional concepts and vogues, being honest, simple, respectful to the
elderly and careful for children, polite and hospitable.
3.2.2   History, Culture of the Tibetans
The Tibetans have time-honored traditional cultures and art. The "Biography of Gesaer",
circulated among the Tibetans for a long time, is a monumental work of art integrating
biographies, poems, epics, ballads, allegories and fairy tales. They boast colorful arts of
sculpture and painting, including colored drawing, mud/metallic sculpture, butter sculpture,
barbola, rafter carving, woodcarving, stone carving, etc.
The marital concept of the Tibetans is quite free and open, which gives rise to a relatively
stable marriage. The practice that a man is married into and lives with his wife's family is
prevailing at many places where the Tibetans live. Such men are not discriminated but enjoy
the same equality in economic status and right to inherit property as their family memnbers.
There are several funeral ceremonies-tower burial, cremation, celestial burial, inhumation
and water burial. The Tibetans living in Gansu have many festivals, most of which are very
closely related to Buddhism in origin, including the Rosa Festival (the New Year's Day), the
Meulam Festival (the Rogation Days), the Rangnei Day (the birthday of Sakyamuni), the
Xianglang Festival and the Chajian Festival (for sacrifice to the God of Mount)
The Tibetans believe in Tibet-introduced Buddhism and have got their own language both
written and spoken.
3.2.3   History, Culture of the Hui nationality
The Hui nationality was gradually formed through the long-term coexistence and fusion of
the Persians and Arabs who lived in Central Asia and moved eastward during the expedition
westward of Jenghis Khan in the early 13t' century with the Han people, Mongolians and
Uigurs. The Hui people in Gansu mainly originates from the "Huihui" people who moved
eastward through the Silk Road. The Hexi Region, as a thoroughfare of the Silk Road, was
not only a passage of trade but also a region of multinational fusion. During the Sui, Tang
and Song dynasties, quite a few Muslim traders settled in the Hexi Region. In the Yuan
dynasty, numbers of Huihui soldiers garrisoning the frontier to open up wasteland, merchants
and messengers were settled in Gansu. At the early years of the Qing dynasty, a wide range
of settlements already took form for the Hui people in Gansu. Then, some Hui people were
resettled, some from Xinjiang Province and the others from Shanxi and Ningxia who had
failed a rebellion against the Qing Government.
The Hui nationality has no spoken or written language of their own but uses Chinese instead,
in which the traces of Persian and Arabic can be found. The Hui people are relatively
under-developed in terms of culture and education. Before the Qing dynasty, mosques
focusing on scriptural education were a stage not only for religious activities, but also for
educational and cultural purposes. Among folk arts of the Hui people in Gansu,
"Flowers"-a folk song-is the most widespread. The Hui people are fond of martial art
with their unique style.
9



The Hui nationality believes in Islam, which was introduced to China around 65 1AD (the 2nd
year of the reign titled Yonghui in the Tang dynasty). Gansu is a main region where the Islam
Faction of China was formed and disseminated.
The marriage of the Hui people is determined nominally by both sides but actually by their
parents. Islam encourages able men to marry as many wives as possible within the limit of 4.
Committed to the earth, the dead have to be body-washed with water and wrapped with some
lOm's white cloth before burial. The Hui nationality has two main festivals in a year, one is
the "Lasser Bairam", the other the "Gurbang Festival". They like taling tea and cleanliness.
3.2.4   History, Culture of the Tu nationality
The ancestors of the Tu nationality mostly came from Baidada at the Yinshan Mountains and
may be dated back to Shiwei at the northeast Hulun Lake, in the Tang dynasty. The formation
of the Tu nationality is closely related to the Mongolians. In the early 13d' century, Geriliter,
an inferior officer of Jenghis Khan, led his troops to settle around Huzhu in Qinghai and then
gradually fused with the local Hoers (the Tu ancestors) to generate the current Tu nationality.
The Hoers were namely the former Tuguhun people. Initially, the Tu nationality dealt with
stockbreeding; since the Ming dynasty, they gradually refocused on agriculture and operated
stockbreeding as a sideline.
The Tu nationality believes in the Glur sect (Huang Religion) in Buddhism, but few people
also believe in the same Buddhism as the Han nationality. The Tiantang Temple at Tianzhu
County in Gansu is a major temple in the inhabitation' areas of the Tu people. In addition,
those at Zhuoni County offer sacrifice to the God of Family and Chang Yuchun-a senior
general in the Ming dynasty by worshipping at the memorial temple of Chang on May 5th
every year in the lunar calendar.
The Tu people possess brilliant and colorful cultures characterized by northern nomads, who
are also are good at singing and dancing. Since they have no written language, their folk
literatures have been passed down generation by generation orally. Except for the language
of their own, the means of presentation also include Chinese and Tibetan, especially poems.
Their songs are an integral part of their folk literatures, falling into family songs to be sung
at home at the time of a festival and folk songs, namely the "Flowers". The Tu nationality
has created luxuriant folk arts, including music, dance, painting, embroidery, etc. The Tu
women at Zhuoni are also good at playing the copper flute.
The Tu people in Gansu have similar festivals to the Han nationality, but those inhabiting
Qinghai have their special traditional festivals, such as,the "Nadun Gathering" of those at
Sanchuan.
Under a monogamy, the habit to have a man moved into his wife's family after the marriage
is very popular in the Tu society. For reason of small population, many Tu people intermarry
with Tibetan and Han families. However, more often, a man of the Tu nationality would
marry a women of another nationality, but a women of the Tu nationality would not marry
out to another nationality. Another custom is that a family with a daughter but no son may
admit a sun-in-law from another nationality, who may reserve his former surname but has to
change his nationality to became a member of the Tu people.  The festival ceremony of
the Tu nationality may vary from place to place, which is mostly in the form of cremation,
but inhumation for those living at the Jishi Mountain and Minhe in Qinghai. The Tu people
pay attention to courtesy and are very hospitable. They abstain from perissodactyl.
3.2.5   History, Culture of the Dongxiang nationality
The Dongxiang nationality was generated from the amalgamation of the Huihui people, the
10



Mongolians, the Han people and the Tibetans who lived in the Dongxiang Region during the
transition period of the Yuan and Ming dynasties in the later 14'h century. During their course
of formation, the part of Huihui people speaking Mongolian and those Mongolians in belief
of Islam played a leading role.
The Dongxiang nationality has created colorful folk literatures, including age-old heroicals,
legends, stories, funny jokes and philosophic talks, fairy tales and the traditional folk song of
"Flowers".
The Dongxiang nationality, polite and tidy, zealous and hospitable, has a strong concept of
filial piety. Similar to other nationalities in belief of Islam, the Dongxiang nationality has
also 3 important festivals-the Lesser Bairam, the Gurbang Festival and the Shengji Festival.
Generally committed to the earth, the Dongxiang people attach much importance to funerals.
In their thrifty funeral ceremonies, the dead are usually buried wrapped with white cloth and
buried on the day of death, undressed and uncoffined.
3.3 Current Community Development of Minorities at Affected Areas
3.3.1   Yugur communities based on pure economy of stockbreeding
In this social assessment, 2 Yugur communities were investigated, which are the summer
ranges at Kangfeng and Saiding Villages under Hongshiwo Township, Sunan County, typical
of rural communities of the Yugur nationalities. Sunan County is one of the counties that
have became well-off in Gansu, under which Kangfeng and Saiding Villages are relatively
higher in economic development. As indicated from the results of questionnaire survey, the
per capita herdsman income at the two villages was RMB3,826 and RMB3,123 respectively,
fairly high provincially.
Settling in pursuit of aquatic weeds for pasturing is a traditional industry of the Yugur people,
even today when their living standard is already well-off, they're still leading a semi-pastoral
life changing with the natural conditions. Although they have got spacious and comfortable
settlements in the winter range, the existing mode of production drives them among the early
summer range, summer range and autumn range during the 4-5 months every year from the
end of spring through autumn. From the winter range to the transitional ranges (i.e., the early
summer range and autumn range) to the summer range, the living conditions of herdsmen
become harder and harder-the altitude rises constantly from 2,400m to 3,500m thereabout.
Where the altitude is greater, the living conditions is naturally harder. Without any back road,
herdsmen have to, year by year, use yaks as the means to transport their daily necessities for
use in the summer and autumn ranges. Without electricity, TV programs is non-receivable;
inaccessible by postal communication, newspapers are unavailable; away from bazaars, the
closest one is 80km away. The inconvenience in traffic makes their life extremely dull. A tent,
some simple household goods and a crowd of livestock are the whole of their life in the
summer range. At night, drinking with some nearby companions in candlelight is the sole
manner for herdsmen to expel loneliness. The remote living environment and dispersed style
of inhabitation have given rise to their habits of hospitality and favor of drinking. Although
far away from urban areas and poor in educational facilities, pupils have to go to the Primary
School of Kangle District tens of miles away. The lodging conditions of the school being too
poor, some herdsmen have their children lodged in the families of their relatives or friends.
For those families having no relative or friend close to the school, a family member has to go
to school along with the child, who is usually an elder or a man. This is because in the Yugur
customs, a man does not have to milk a cow or process dairy products, which is the most
frequent hand labor in a year and relies largely on a woman. This is why in a family without
11



any elder, a man has to go to school along with his little child(children). Even so, the Yugur
people lay much stress on school education, for example, the enrollment ratios of children of
the right age at the two villages have been 100% for many years consecutively under a
long-established system of nine-year compulsory education.
Stockbreeding is the sole means of livelihood for residents at the above two villages, where
herdsmen make a living by means of breeding and herding sheep, selling live sheep, wool
and fur of some cattle and sheep for self-use. Delivering lambs during May to April every
lunar year and opening pens on sale during August to September, autumn is thereby their
time of harvesting by eaming mostly in cash. To protect pasture lands, they seldom herd goat
but tens of yaks instead to produce dairy products they like to eat, such as Qula, butter, milk
tea, dry beef, etc., also as their major means of transportation during pasturing and migration.
The residents at the two Yugur communities investigated all pay much attention to grassland
protection. As investigated, half household income of herdsmen is dedicated to constructing
grassland fencing and greenhouses in the winter range. They could all voluntarily herd cattle
and sheep according to the rated stock-carrying capacity, many also expected to get financial
aids and supports, so that they would be able to construction and protect of the shelter forests
in the Qilian Mountains, which would in turn protect their grassland resources.
Taking Saiding Village as an example: There are totally 87 families in Saiding Village, of
which are 73 Yugur families, 5 Tibetan ones, 8 Han ones and I Tu family, amounting to a
population of 318, of which are 17 Tibetans, 6 Tu people, 1 Hui people, 25 Han people and
269 Yugur people. The Village has 125,000 mu winter and spring ranges, which have been
contracted to specific families, as well as 1,000 mu forage grass lands owned collectively
and no cultivated land. The Village runs 3 livestock farms in possession of over 750 heads of
sheep, more than 200 heads of goat, which have all been contracted to individuals with the
profits turned over in the proportion of 50% to higher authorities. In 1999, the revenue of the
Village was RMB16,000, largely used for the wages of village cadres, office businesses and
collective activities. The winter and spring ranges are also the settlements of herdsmen, who
live scattered in the contracted grasslands of their own families. These settlements are all
accessible to electricity and TV and is now in the attempt to access to the fixed telephone.
The herdsmen there drink water mainly by means of water cellars with a volume of I Om3,
where water is hauled from a great river over 70km away and further led to kitchens via
pumping equipment and pipelines. Drinking water for livestock is collected through rain
pipes, which is mainly rain in summer. Herdsmen eat grain and vegetables bought from the
market, produce meat and dairy product by themselves. They are mostly accommodated by
tents in the summer and autumn ranges, inaccessible to electricity or any information source.
A small part of rich men are using small solar generators for lighting, who also listen to the
radio. The settlement has greatly changed herdsmen's lifestyle, especially their diet structure,
in which wheat noodle and vegetables are daily foods, supplemented by dairy products and
meat in place of their traditional diet focusing on meat, highland barley and dairy products.
Therefore, their daily supplies features very low degree of self-sufficiency and a very heavy
weight in consumption expenditures. The community life and production are characterized
by: (1) scattered inhabitation, which causes much difficulty to the education of their children,
traffic, communication and association among residents, loneliness drives herdsmen to drink
heavily and be hospitable; (2) the traditional manner of pasturing determines that herdsmen
have to transfer their settlements with the changes of natural conditions on natural grasslands
in different seasons of a year, which makes their life much inconvenience and also decides
the strong reliance of their income on natural conditions; (3) low degree of self-sufficiency
and high degree of merchandizing for herdsmen's daily supplies; and (4) large expenditures
on living and production. Since more than a half of their yearly income is dedicated to the
12



construction of fencing, some for education, living and entertaining others, they have fairly
limited deposits and a feeble economic foundation, which lead to frequent borrowing or even
poverty in the case of a large sum of spending.
Case: Su Jinji's family at Kangfeng Village
Su Jinji (male, 34 years) is housed on the Qilian Mountains with an altitude of over 3,500m
at relatively poor household economic conditions. He and his 28-year-aged wife both belong
to the Yugur nationality and are atheists and illiterates not good at speaking. Su Jinji is a little
literate about Chinese while his wife none at all. Both of them speak Yugur language (spoken
only).
Su Jinji had never heard of the fine-wool-sheep development with World Bank's loan. When
informed of the proposed Program, he expressed the willingness thereabout. As indicated in
his grassland contracting agreement, his household per capita net income was RMB3,333 in
1999, which was later justified in our investigation, save that it should be income other than
net income. Except for his house (one-room, 25m2, earth and wood structure, built in 2000)
in the summner range and that (one-room, 25 in2, earth and wood structure, built in 2000) in
the autumn range, he also owns a house (three-room, over 70m2, half-timber construction,
built in 1988) in the winter range. With no TV set in the family, he possesses a radio recorder,
a motorcycle worth RMB15,000, three sets of cooking utensils worth some RMB600 and a
tractor worth RMB7,400. The account of payments of his family is as follows:
Chart of Expenditures of Su Jinji's Family
Unit: RMB
Food Daily Profit deduction and Medical Entertainment Education Productive Total
goods    reserving under  expenses                       investment
unified planning
2,500  2,150        564.6         550       350         1,400     2,000   8,950
As we can see from the above chart, Su Jinji leads quite a hard life. He said that he would
borrow money every year, for example, he borrowed RMB6,000 at a credit cooperative at
the annual interest of RMB700, which was to be paid off within I year. In his opinion, the
main cause for his hard life was the small amount of livestock and small area of grassland,
which could accommodate 120 heads of sheep at most. He presently raises 15 heads of cattle,
80 heads of sheep and 2 horses. He also showed us the "2nd Round of Contracting Agreement
for Grassland", where the contract-issuing party was the village cooperative, the contractor
was individual. Notarized by the Township Government, the Contract, with a valid period of
20 years, was entered into by the above two parties as follows:
Details of Su Jinji's 2nd Round Grassland Contract
Unit: area-mu, sum-RMB, amount of livestock-head
Utilizable Levies Grade-I Charging Grade-Il Charging Stock-ca Allowable
grassland         area  coefficient  area  coefficient rrying  overload
area                    =0.04            =0.03   capacity
Winter/spring  774    27.09    387     15.48    387     11.61     116      17
range
13



Summer/        697    20.91                     697     20.91     137      21
autumn range
Total        1,471     48     387    115.48    1,084   30.52
According to his introduction, the I" round of contracting began in 1983, when his family
was a big one with two brothers who were now both married. Having undergone a break-up,
his family now owned very little grassland compared to that of the whole village, which was
also quite limited. He was unaware of such thing as sown pasture. As shown in the table, the
levies were charged by the area of grassland.
Su Jinji himself seldom went out, Qinghai being the farthest for doing the business of horses
since 1983 until 1999 when horses became valueless. In detail, he purchased 5-6 horses at
the unit price of RMB 1,300-1,400 here and then sold them to Qinghai at a distance of 5 days
to earn a unit profit of over RMB 100, sometimes RMB300-400. Since the weather was very
chilly in winter, such sales was made once a year in summer.
Su Jinji's main recreations was listening to,the radio, drinking with friends or watching TV
at neighbors' families, he read everything but newspaper.
3.3.2   Tibetan communities based on semi-agricultural and semi-pastoral economy with a
leading industry of stockbreeding
Honggeda Village under Zhuaxixiulong Township, Tianzhu County is the only pure Tibetan
community in this investigation. Economically, Honggeda Village is among the richer ones
in Tianzhu County as indicated from its annual per capita income of RMB3,121 (source: Qr.
survey) in 2000. Provided all townships under Tianzhu County are divided into 3 classes-A,
B and C-by economic development, Zhuaxixiulong Township belongs to Class-A, where
Honggeda Village falls into Class-A in this township. Industrially, it is a semi-agricultural
and semi-pastoral area with focus on stockbreeding, which in turn centers on the herding and
breeding of traditional strains of white yak, Chakou post-horse and sheep. The agriculture
there relies heavily on the plantation of highland barley, rape seed and potato, utilizing about
2/3 cultivated lands for forage grasses. Farrn products are mainly reserved for self-use while
seldom sold out. However, sheep products are for sale in large quantities every year, leaving
only a small part for breeding purposes. Cattle and horses have to be raised for several years
consecutively before selling when they are grown. In this way, administrators of the Village
and Township, as well as villagers, all regard the Village as a purely pastoral one. There are
many young people working out of home, for example, Yangshao Taji (Tibetan, 34 years old)
and her husband (Tibetan, 36 years) have went to Qinghai for work every year recently. Her
husband serves as a driver at a construction site, she herself serves at a restaurant, both of
whose net earnings totaled RMB5,000 last years. During their working period out of home,
their 3 children are looked after by their parents. In the Village, there are also some able men
doing businesses on cattle and sheep, whose income is higher than ordinary herdsmen. For
instance, Da Wanrong (Tibetan, 50 years), a rich man at the Village, earned a net income of
RMB2,000 from selling sheep and cattle in Qinghai last year. The livestock sales income of
his family amounted to RMB22,570, of which RMB4,600 was from horses, RMB7,000 from
sheep, RMB I0,000 from cattle, RMB370 from fur and RMB600 from wool. In addition, the
summer range at Honggeda Village contains a gold mine, villagers may earn an income of
RMB 1,000-2,000 per annum therefrom.
From the view of resource and environment, at the summer range investigated at Honggeda
Village, which is situated alongside the Jinqiang River with gold everywhere, miners have
already completed a road leading to this place. In the spot survey, we found that the riverbed
was thoroughly destroyed with hill-like piles of sand everywhere, no river water was seen.
14



Herdsmen complained that not long ago, the local government had destroyed their grassland
and riverbed by selling the gold mine, and was now inhibiting them from excavating gold. In
addition, villagers reflected that the damage by wild rat was very serious on grasslands with
a large area averagely 7.8 mu an animal. The estimated stock-carrying capacity is 10-12 mu
for one head of sheep, so the equal sharing of time for herding and stall feeding shall apply
for an average year.
The regulatory body of the Village is the villagers' committee, under which are communes
each headed by a chairman responsible for the general management of the commune (usually
a natural village). Under the commune are teams every 10 families headed by a team leader
each, who shall assist the chairman and village head to administer community affairs. There
are also grassland management committees in the Village, which affiliate every team leader.
There is a primary school at the winter range of Honggeda Village under bilingual education
(Tibetan and Chinese). Villagers there mostly speak both Tibetan and Chinese, 71.88% of the
labors has an educational attainment of primary school or above, while illiterates account for
3.12% thereof. Compared to herdsmen at Kangfeng and Saiding Villages, those at Honggeda
Village lead a relatively stable life. Although they may similarly experience migrations with
the natural change of grassland growth in different seasons of a year, they spend a shorter
period outside at places close to their settlements, where traffic conditions are convenient. At
the same time, they also operate cultivated lands, young people sometimes work out of home,
so that villagers at Honggeda Village lead a more colorful life.
3.3.3   Communities cross-inhabited by Tibetans, Han, Tl and other nationalities based
on semi-agriculturallsemi-pastoral economy with a leading industry of stockbreeding
Tanyaogou Village belongs to a semi-agricultural and semi-pastoral area with less grasslands.
As a poor village under a team-contract system, the Village has now a population of 1,455,
mostly Tibetans (60%), followed by the Han people (17.53%) and the Tu people (4.12%). In
its cultivated area of 1,581 mu, 121 mu is used to plant green forage. As found in the spot
survey, this village is eminently characterized by poverty: firstly, the housing conditions are
poor, most houses are made of adobe blocks; secondly, insufficient machinery for agriculture
and stockbreeding. It was found that most families of herdsmen had no high-grade household
electric appliance. Since the team-contract system applies to grassland, lots of problems exist
in grass farms, many even without fencing. The household stall feeding conditions are also
not so optimistic, because stalls are mostly made of cob walls and very small, which would
easily collapse in rainy days. In the Village, stockbreeding is developed by way of pasturing
combined with stall feeding, which occupy 6-7 months and 5-6 months of a year each. This
determines the small scale of household stockbreeding in the Village at an average amount of
75 heads of sheep per family, ranging from 110 to 18 heads. As indicated from the Qr. survey,
the per capita income of the village in 2000 was RMB2,192. In comparison to Honggeda
Village under a same township, the Village features heavy weight of agriculture, small scale
of stockbreeding and a great disparity in personal income.
Case 1: Fan Debin-a middle-income villager at Chaxi Beachhead in Tanyaogou Village
Fan perceives himself as a middle-income one in the village. He lives in a 5-member family:
Fan Debin, 37 years old, Tibetan; his wife, 33 years, Tibetan; his mother, 73 years and two
sons aged II and 9 years each. His family raises 80 heads of sheep, 2 heads of cattle, I horse
and 2 pigs. The sales income from animal products in the last year was RMB7,380, of which,
RMBI1,200 from horses, RMB4,800 from sheep, RMB800 from cattle, RMBI00 from fur
and RBMI,200 from wool. The family contracts 10 mu cultivated land, 3 mu for forage grass
15



and the remaining 7 mu for highland barley (also used to fee sheep), oil plants, potato, etc. In
the last year, his family earned RMB1,500 from crop cultivation out of the gross household
income of RMB8,800, averagely RMB1,776 per capita. Grain for their own use is mainly
bought from the market. The family now possesses durable consumer goods at a total value
of RMB740.
When some members of the Assessment Group visited his family, he was fixing sheepfolds.
He explained that, his sheepfold had collapsed in a rain just two days before, so he had to fix
it, and he would do this several times a year. He said, the winter and spring ranges had been
contracted along with 16 other families in 1981 at an area of around 3,000 mu and no change
followed ever since. His family was not allocated with any summer range because the team
had no strict management system, a family might breed livestock as they will, the amount of
which is substantially determined by the economic conditions of every farmily. As stipulated
in the Village, it was impermissible to herd any big livestock in a winter or spring range, but
someqpne who did not raise sheep put their horses inside the range to eat (grasses), someone
from other teams stealthily raised yaks on the range in the nighttime. No one answered for
this. When turning to the villager's comrnittee, I was told that everyone should take care of
his own range. Their team had also got a leader, but was elected through lotting,
Case 2: Wei Yongzhong-a rich man and elitist at Tanyaogou Village
Wei Yongzhong, male, Tibetan, 34 years old, holding a diploma of junior high school; Wei's
wife, 35 years, with an educational attainment of primary school, dealing with stockbreeding
at home mainly, two children both at schooL Wei himself is a cadre of the Village at a yearly
pay of RMB500. His household income mainly comes from doing business by himself and
stockbreeding. Wei purchases wool, sheepskin and sheep locally for sale on the bazaar, who
earned a net income ,of RMB30,000 therefrom on an investment of RMB20,000. The family
raises 95 heads of sheep, 2 heads of cattle and I horse. Since Wei is engaged in business, the
family, short of labor force, has to contract most of its sheep to other herders in the Village to
be herded at the summer range at a pay of RMB3Ihead month.
In his point of view, serious problems exist in grasslands of the Village: (I) Serious damage
by insects and wild rats. The Township Grassland Management Station once organized such
activities of weeding with drugs, disinsection and catching rats but ceased in recent years,
though sometimes, there are also some people from other places coming to purchase rats at a
unit price of RMBO.5 and students are organized to catch rats during vacations. He thinks the
township government should take the lead in this regard by organizing and advocating, then
villagers are surely to respond actively. (2) Overgrazing as a result of the population growth
from formerly 200 families at the time of ungrouping to presently 500 and the increase in
amount of sheep raised; and (3) Management system. In the winter range, the situation that
tens of families use a same piece of grassland is not suitable for the current development of
stockbreeding. The relaxed management on grassland has given rise to overgrazing; however,
no civil dispute has arisen from the contradiction between forage and livestock, nor would
serious overgrazing appear. This is because grasses on hills are far from enough, which must
be complemented by large amounts of forage grasses, also because the amount of sheep at
each family is not too large, which is related to their respective capacities. However, the case
of overgrazing does exist, which shall be addressed by contracting winter ranges to every
family. In recent years, the villagers' committee has always attempted to realize this but are
faced with some difficulties, such as the disparity in quality, evenness and distance among
grasslands. More importantly, grasslands in the Village are spread in several ditches, there is
a knotty contradiction between the protection of lower grasslands and the livestock passage
16



in upper -grasslands, which has applied a great pressure on the work of contracting family by
family and made it suspended all along.
Very willing to participate in this Project, Wei is faced with some key technical problems and
in need of technical training to be provided by the government. It is preferred to set up some
courses in the Village to benefit villagers more greatly. In order to construct standard stalls
and grassland fencing, improve the quality of forage grasses, he thinks it very necessary to
establish an association of herdsmen, which shall consist of elitists among cadres and masses.
However, in his perception, the principle to organize voluntarily may cause some problems,
because no one hopes anyone poor, experienceless and incapable to join the association,
which is to be settled by offering various governmental aids to the poor. He expects that such
associations may offer help in sheep-herding techniques, market information, marketing and
grassland construction.
Wei holds that the loan should be applied for by villagers voluntarily with a view to let the
Project cover everyone but with a major focus on sheepherders in terms of amount, because
neither the poor nor the rich would use the loan sheep-herding, only specialized sheepherders
would utilize this loan truly effectively. At the same time, he thinks that the market is not yet
open enough for businesses, heavy taxes are levied on sheep sellers and buyers, including the
management fee, slaughter tax, quarantine tax and specialty tax, which have brought down
prices dramatically.
3.3.4   Hui communities based on multi-economy focusing on plantation agriculture
Kangle County is a semi-agricultural and semi-pastoral area relying mainly on agriculture.
As locations of investigation, Waxia Village under Huguan Township andHumagou Village
under Luming Township are two typical rural communities in Kangle County, of which the
former is the richest village there, while the latter is one of the poorest.
Waxia Village, presently with a population of 2,004 out of 354 families and a cultivated area
of 2,030 mu, is a village purely composed of the Hui nationality eminently featuring
multi-industry. More than 90% men villagers are doing business or working out of home,
leaving women and the elderly to plant wheat, maize, rape seed, potato, etc. or deal with
cattle and sheep fattening at home. There is a processing plant of potato powder and three
processing enterprises of edible oil in the Village, which manufacture powder and oil cakes
as top-grade forages for cattle and sheep fattening. There is a small reservoir built by
personal funding there, used to lift water from pumped well for irrigation. Another
characteristic of the Village is the high level of household income, fixed assets in possession
and standard of household living, appearing as large dwelling space, high house quality,
diversity and full functionality of household electric appliances, complex structure of income
from diversified sources. Now is the case of Ma Chengfo interviewed:
Ma Chengfo, male, 54 years aged, Hui in nationality, holding a primary school diploma, is
currently doing business mainly and also raising cattle and sheep at home. His wife, 48 years,
Hui in nationality, illiterate, mainly deals with agriculture and stockbreeding at home. Ma
has two sons, the elder one, 27 years, has been doing business together with his father after
graduating from a junior high school, the younger one, 14 years, is studying at grade-I of a
junior high school.
Ma Chengfo operates 2 plants-the Fur Processing Plant of Kangle and a processing plant of
potato powder located inside the yard of the former, Shichang Lane of the county town. As
early as the 1980s, Ma Chengfo began to purchase wool and sheepskin for selling to other
places. Later on, he did some simple processing at home before reselling to the town, which
17



was quite profitable. When Tang Zhenhua-Secretary of the County Party Committee-was
visiting the Village, he encouraged Ma to enlarge his plant and helped Ma rent a plot at the
county town after contacting the Land Board and the Bureau of Township Enterprises of the
County. The plant, jointly held by Ma Chengfo, Ma Chengde and 5 other persons, was set up
with a capital (hundreds of thousand RMB) mainly contributed by Ma Chengde and operated
with a working capital jointly contributed by all of them. When the first sum of profit was
earned, it was firstly used to pay off to Ma Chengde and then shared out among the other 6
ones in proportion to their respective shares. 2 shareholders withdrew in 1994 and later a
new partner became affiliated in 1998, who went to Kunming to sell wool carpet. At that
time, the plant has agreed on a bottom price of RMB 120/sheet, but this new partner claimed
that he had sold out at a price of RMB80-100/sheet when he was back and then withdrew
taking away a fund exceeding RMB200,000. The others suspected that this man had quoted a
lower selling price and embezzled some funds, so they instituted a proceeding, which is not
yet finished yet. The plant is now jointly owned by 4 persons.
When the plant was just founded, it mainly purchased sheepskin and wool locally for selling
to state-run factories in Guizhou, Sichuan and Chongqing, from which a total sum of RMB2
million has not be collected so far due to their poor economic benefit. At present, the amount
due is mainly recovered by conveying wool to these state-run factories for processing into
wool carpet and then carrying back for sale. Wool carpets are well sold at the Sanjia bazaar,
Guanghe and Linxia at high prices due to superior wool quality and workmanship.
In 1998, Ma Chengfo founded a potato powder processing plant by himself at an investment
of nearly RMB2 million and hired 30 employees at a monthly pay of RMB450 per person
(excluding accommodation). Ma's family presently raises 30 heads of sheep and 5 heads of
cattle (all for breeding). In the last year, he sold sheep at RMB52,000, cattle at RMB60,000,
fur at RMB 1,5000 and wool at RMB 1,200. In detail, fur was sold to his own plant, cattle and
sheep was sold on the market. Ma is widely interested in stockbreeding and ever raised such
species as blackcock, guinea, goose, duck and wolf. When speaking of sheep breeding, Ma
seemed very confident of his experiences. In the past, he hybridized cold-tolerant sheep with
indigenous sheep and generated a new variety featuring rapid growth, tasty meat and good
wool quality. More importantly, the hybridized sheep had a high reproduction rate averaging
twice a year and at least 2 lambs at a time, sometimes even 6 lambs beneficially. He is eager
to participate this sheep improvement project and intends to introduce fine-wool-sheep for
hybridization with small-tailed cold-tolerant sheep in the second year, so that there will be a
high and quality output and favorable anticipated benefit. As to the line of credit, he prefers
an amount of RMB80,000-90,000 at least to cover 100 heads of ewe and 2 employees. Apart
from the expenditures on wages and forages, it is estimated to net-earn RMB60,000 at least.
When asked whether it was necessary to set up an association of herdsmen, Ma thought it
unnecessary based on his own experiences and would rather go it alone, because a collective
undertaking would not be taken seriously by anyone.
3.3.5   Cross-inhabited multinational communities based on multi-economy with focus on
plantation agriculture
Humagou Village is a typical poor village, very distinct from Waxia Village that is but 20km
away. The Village has a population of 1,431 out of 287 families, of which there are 585 Hui
people, 116 Dongxiang people and 730 Han people, a cultivated area of 2885 mu, averaging
2.02 mu per capita. The per capita net income (the year-end per capita deposit) was RMB285
and per capita grain in possession was 265kg in 2000, 40% men labors of the Village were
working out of home. As indicated from Qr. survey, the capita income of RMB 1,641 in 2000
was the lowest among the 8 villages investigated. At the Village, the Hui people deal with
agriculture mainly and also trade animal products; the Han people are engaged in agriculture
I8



mainly, young men adults work out of home in labor seasons; the Dongxiang people deal
with agriculture largely and farm product processing (mill) individually. Small scale sheep
breeding is the common pattern of operation by families of the above nationalities. Moreover,
some families raise cattle, horse or mules as draught animals, the Han people raise pigs for
self-use mainly. The Hui and Dongxiang nationalities have a life history of more than 3
generations here, most of whom are migrants from Dongxiang County, while the Han people
are a long-living nationality here, which is known to all villagers. These 3 nationalities live
harmoniously by offering mutual aid in production and showing mutual understanding and
respect in daily life.
Case: Zhang Fuzhong-a villager at Humagou Vlllage
Zhang Fuzhong didn't know how to spell his name, the interviewer has to write in this way
according to his pronunciation. Zhang's family has 6 members: he and his wife, parents, two
children, all of whom belong to the Hui nationality. His mother is a disabled and dwarfish
(less than lm) stepmother. This is a wholly illiterate family, including his 9-year-aged elder
daughter, who is unable to read even one word. His dilapidated house was reportedly to have
been built in 1970s, covered with thatch grasses on the top, adobe structured and very simply
furnished-few worn-out suitcases and an old black-and-white TV set are all the belongings
of the family.
Zhang's family now possesses 12 heads of sheep and 2 mules and 20 mu cultivated land, on
which 2 mu alfalfa, 8 mu wheat, 5 mu rape, I mu angelica, 2 mu corn, 2 mu potato is planted.
In the household income last year, RMB 1,500 was from sheep, RMB 1,000 from a mule and
RMB300 from wool. The family disbursed most in agriculture, followed by stockbreeding,
food, medical service and daily goods in turn. Agriculturally, it spent RMB2,000 to buy
fertilizer, pesticide and pay related taxes.
He borrows every year, RMB3,000 in the last year for instance, which was warranted by a
Han neighbor surnamed He always in a frequent mutual-aid relationship with Zhang's family.
Zhang hopes to borrow in on a voluntary basis, saying "It should not be determined by the
villagers' committee, because the cadres there are appointed by the township government in
a way other than democratic election. The committee is always acting unfairly for the benefit
of those relative to village cadres." He is willing to participate in the sheep improvement
project and desires the help in technical training and market information. However, he said,
"It's unnecessary to establish an association of herdsmen, that would be too complicated.
Sheepherders like us are always talking to communicate experiences, everyone has his own
way."
Economic Status of Peasant/herdsman families at Villages Investigated
Unit: RMB/average household
Village name      Gross sales of   Original value of durable  Gross household
animal products  consumer goods in possession income in the last year
Saiding Village      9457.5               8303.75                15987.5
Kangfeng Village    12684.27              6669.33               14769.36
Tanyaogou Village    5939.75              9876.75               10630.53
Honggeda Village     7025.71              5811.43                14416.8
Waxia Village       16909.09             27042.14               41088.57
Humagou Village      1906.5               1429.12                8205.36
Data source:  statistics of results from Qr. investigation under this social assessment.
19



3.3.6   Sequencing of key advantages promoting economic/social development of minorities
The investigation on the "key advantages promoting the ecohbmic and social development of
minorities" and "key factors restricting the economic and social development of minorities"
was largely conducted by the Assessment Group by means of forum, in-depth interview and
sequencing.
As indicated from this PRA investigation, the perception of "key advantages promoting" and
"key factors restricting the economic and social development of minorities" varies with the
living environment or region, nationality, educational attainment, religious belief and social
status. Among different nationalities, those believing in different religions or the same one
but in different degrees, rural administrators, folk elitists, county and township cadres, great
differences but also some common grounds exist. Comparatively, the degree of similarity is
higher among people of a same nationality living in a same area. The living environment or
region matters most for the differences, followed by educational attainment, religious belief
and social status.
1) Perception and sequencing of Yugur cadres and masses at Sunan County
In herdsman Zhang Qiang's earth house within a summer range at Kangfeng Village, Sunan
County, the Assessment Group held a forum attended by administrators on the three levels of
county, township and village, as well as herdsman representatives of the Village; later on,
in a tent of accountant Lan Jianshe within a summer range at Saiding Village, the Group held
another forum gathering herdsman representatives and some cadres of the Village; at Sunan
Hotel, the Group further organized a forum where some,county representatives attended. As
topic on these 3 forurms, the economic and social development of the Yugur nationality was
discussed.
We've leamt that religion plays a minor role in the earthly life of the Yugur people, on whom
the educational attainment have an apparent influence. The development of school education
and the increase of literacy give the herdsmen a quick absorption of new techniques and new
things, also a strong sense of science and technology, playing a uppermost promotional role
in the social and economic development thereof. Secondly, the grassland contract system,
which was in force since 1983, redefined the sphere of responsibility for management and
hamessing of grassland and led to a higher activeness among herdsmen. The implementation
of population control policy has kept under control the population growth and eased up the
overgrazing and overload on grassland resulting therefrom. Thirdly, the County Govemment
and County Party Committee has attached great importance to the development of economy,
land and tourist resources, and the introduction of investments. Fourthly, the local advantage
of resources is the key factor of development, which, however, are yet to be well developed,
utilized, placed under favorable policies and drawn to leaders' attention.
2) Perception and sequencing of Tebitan and Tu cadres and masses at Tianzhu County
Cadres and masses of the Tibetan and Tu nationality at Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County
consider the greatest advantage of the County as convenient traffic, then rich resources, such
as grassland and tourism. Most importantly, the county leadership has paid attention to the
utilization and development of these resources these years under certain policies and projects
therefor. The preliminary utilization and development of advantaged resources is the critical
reason for the development of tourism and stockbreeding there. So they put the leadership's
recognition of development in the first place, then the advantage of resources, followed by
convenient traffic and the increase of average educational attainment.
20



3) Perception and sequencing of Hui and Dongxiang cadres and masses at Kangle County
The perception of factors promoting the local economic and social development by the Hui
and Dongxiang nationalities differs from that of the Yugur nationality and the Tibetans by
holding that the greater liberty of policies following the Reform and Opening of China gave
a play to their strongpoints and opened the door of convenience, which is the foremost factor
that matters. The religious believes have encouraged and educated them to do and how to do
businesses, so these two nationalities think highly of the role of religion and put it in the 3d
place.
In sum, the sequencing, made by cadres and masses of different nationalities mainly based
on the analysis of local developments in recent years, reflects both national and also regional
features. See the table below for details:
Sequenicing of Factors Promoting Local Development by Nationalities at Locations of
Investigation
Nationality  Education  Policy  Religion  Resource Conditions of traffic Attention paid
and communications
Yugur       I St place  2 place          4 place                      3rd place
Tibetan     4thplace  5 place2 place                   3td place       1St place
Hui                   15 place  3r place  4th place   2nd place        5th place
3.3.7   Sequencing of key factors restricting economic/social development of minorities
1 ) Perception and sequencing of the Yugur people at Sunan County
Masses of the Yugur nationality think that natural conditions, especially dryness, are factors
unchangeable by any manpower or financial resources that decisively account for grassland
degradation and impede their local development principally. The factor of funds comes in the
2nd place. The fund shortage has rendered the local infrastructural construction unable to be
improved effectively, added to the transaction costs of animal products and restricted the local
development. The poor conditions of traffic and communications make herdsmen unable to
obtain market and technical information timely, which in turn affects production and sales.
2) Perception and sequencing of the Tibetans at Tianzhu County
Cadres and masses of the Tibetan and Tu nationality hold that, funds are the most important
constraint for them. Residents in Tianzhu investigation point further point out the inadequacy
in the implementation and management of family-by-family grassland contract system, which
has led to the grassland degradation. Compared with before, the population growth results in
a lower per capita possession of grassland area, overgrazing and grassland deterioration, this
is one of the important restricting factors.
3) Perception and sequencing of the Hui people at Kangle County
As seen by Cadres and masses of the Hui nationality at Kangle County, it is now possible to
welcome a great development under the climate of market economy because the locals are
both experienced and interested provided only with funds. In their opinion, Kangle County
features less land for more people, which is a major restricting factor for local development.
However, provided with certain amounts of funds, they would be able to give play to their
national characters of adeptness at business and endurance for external development. Also in
their opinion, the local government has not paid enough attention nor offered enough support
21



to the development of peasants and villages, which is disadvantageous to them.
Sequencing of Factors Restricting Local Development by Cadres and Masses at Locations of
Investigation (split by nationality)
Nationality    Natural       Funds    Management    Population  Conditions of traffic
conditions                                        and communications
Yugur          Ist place   2n place     4th place    5th place       3Td place
Tibetan        4t" place    1St place   2nd place    3rd place
Hui            2nd place   I  place     3rd place          _
4. Participation of Nationalities in Project at Affected Areas
4.1 Situations of Nationalities at Locations of Investigation
This investigation involved 8 villages, of which 6 are inhabited by minorities in a centralized way,
which are Saiding and Kangfeng Villages (Yugur) under Hongshiwo Township, Sunan Yugur
Autonomous County; Tanyaogou Village and Honggeda Village (Tibetan) under Zhuaxixiulong
Township, Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County; Waxia Village (Hui) under Huguan Township
and Humagou Village (Hui, Dongxiang, Han) under Luming Township, Kangle County; as well as
Beidi and Xigou Villages (Han) under Shuiyuan Town, Yongchang County. In investigation,
totally 147 effective questionnaires were collected, 682 persons were interviewed, of which 251
are of the Han nationality, accounting for 36.80%; 118 of the Hui nationality (17.30%); 173
Tibetans (25.37%); 98 of the Yugur nationality (14.37%); 38 of the Dongxiang nationality (5.58%)
and 4 of the Tu nationality (0.59%).
4.2 Participation of Major Nationalities at Locations of Investigation
4.2.1   Participation of Yugur Beneficiaries
At Sunan County, we investigated Kangfeng Village and Saiding Village under Hongshiwo
Township. Particularly, at Kangfeng Village, 15 families were visited, where 58 persons all
of the Yugur nationality were investigated; at Saiding Village, 41 persons (40 of the Yugur
nationality and I of the Han nationality) out of 8 families were investigated.
At the locations of investigation within summer ranges of the above two villages, herdsmen
are very scattered, interview with every herdsman family had to be accompanied by local
cadres of either county or township level, because village cadres were also herding on ranges
and hard to find. We met with the Party branch secretary and accountant of Kangfeng Village,
but could not find other village cadres who were herding far away, which makes the location
the most special in this investigation.
Though leading a hard life, local herdsmen and cadres still showed a great enthusiasm to the
Project. Local cadres (mostly of the Yugur nationality) offered us timely and effective help to
our work, it was with their help that we could finished drawing the local maps of community,
society and resources smoothly. At the same time, they expressed their expectations thereto:
(1) Two-purpose (wool and mutton) sheep breeds are preferred for higher economic benefit;
(2) A form of training seminar is preferred for the technical training for herdsmen, which is
easily accepted. A similar one was held in 1987 and won favorable comments. Provided such
seminars are held at villages, herdsmen are willing to supply experts with accommodations,
bear the costs of teaching materials and share some other financial burdens, (3) Information
22



is so insufficient that herdsmen are unable to fix the sheep price properly. Sheep breeds at the
County are in urgent need of improvement, or they would degrade on the basis of inbreeding;
and (4) It's urgently necessary to construct a signal transmission base station for mobile
communication near the summer range, so that it will be easier for herdsmen to communicate
with the outside by means of mobile phone.
Like other herdsmen, Su Jinji prefers the manner of loan granting by villagers' application on
a voluntary basis. He has never borrowed from any organization or individual other than a
credit cooperative, nor has he participated in any sheep improvement project. In his opinion,
major factors that may impede the development of a fine-wool-sheep project are shortage of
fund or technical problems; however, outlet should be out of question. Lanzhou Woolen Mill
(and many other plants) often drives here to collect wool, when herdsmen bargain with them
to settle on a price, the case is similar at some neighboring villages. As to how will technical
training be conducted, Su Jinji prefers site guidance at their families.
Breeding service is provided by the village breeding station at the charge of RMBO.5/head,
which is quite reasonable and acceptable to all. Fine-wool-sheep may be developed as much
as possible according to the stock carrying capacity of grasslands. However, no veterinary
comes to treat livestock at ordinary times, nor does any grassland administrator comes to
direct the grassland maintenance.
The unit wool price is RMB10.5/kg last year and RMB9.5/kg this year, to which Su Jinji is
not satisfied, because he supposes that the price would be higher if no toll-gate is set up (by
business administrations and revenue offices mainly against purchasers who have not settled
legal formalities) in the County against wool collectors. To be more beneficial, he is willing
to participate in an association of herdsmen for centralized management of grassland and
sales of wool.
4.2.2   Participation of Tibetan Beneficiaries
At Tianzhu County, Tanyaogou and Honggeda Villages under Zhuaxixiulong Township were
investigated. In detail, 97 persons at Tanyaogou Village out of 20 families were investigated,
of which 83 are Tibetans, 10 of the Han nationality and 4 of the Tu nationality; at Honggeda
Village, 97 persons out of 21 families were interviewed, all Tibetans.
In a forum held at the villagers' committee in Tanyaogou where township head Liu along
with his predecessors and able persons in the Village was also present, we inquired about the
situations in the Township, which consists of Tibetans mainly, Han and Tu people partially.
In the Township, every village has its own grassland management committee (the regulations
of which has been collected). About credit guarantee, the township government thinks that it
relies on financial appropriations, but villages thereunder have to pay profit deductions and
reserved funds every year. The villagers' committee suggests to introduce fine-wool-sheep
and simultaneously strengthen the construction of fencing and the grassland contract-system.
In its opinion, the best way to control the stocking density is to increase the technological
content and added value of animal products.
Villagers are very interested in the Project and glad to take part in the interview. They also
show a high enthusiasm for sheep-herding, expecting to improve stable breeding facilities
and enlarge the scale of stockbreeding with the granted loan, which is expected to be granted
directly to peasants without the government as an intermediate. As to the issue of grassland
deterioration, villagers deem the government obligated to organize deratization activities to
control the damage of wild rats. Villagers at Honggeda Village hold the same attitude for the
Project and suggestions for the method of lending as those at Tanyaogou Village. The thing
dissatisfying them most with regard to grassland deterioration is the damage of grassland and
23



rivers resulting from the exploitation of gold mines, for which the insufficient and improper
management by parties concerned account. They hope to make suggestions thereto through
the Assessment Group.
4.23    Participation of Hui Beneficiaries
At Kangle County, Waxia Village under Huguan Township and Humagou Village under
Luming Township were investigated. At Waxia Village, totally 110 persons all of the Hui
nationality were visited out of 22 families; at Humagou Village, 101 persons (52 of the Han
nationality, 38 of the Dongxiang nationality and 11 of the Hui nationality) were interviewed
out of 20 families.
Unaccompanied by leaders of Huguan Township, the Group held a discussion meeting with
the secretary and copy clerk of Waxia Village, who showed a strong interest in the Project.
At the Village, there is a large amount of quickly circulating cattle and sheep raised in a way
of fast fattening mainly. Thereby little interest was paid on fine-wool-sheep, they preferred
sheep featuring great appetite, quick fattening and high lamb survival rate. They think that
the advantage of local sheep breeding lies in sufficient forage and the acpacity of breeding,
but the key problem is funds.
Masses of the Hui nationality have no good suggestion for sheep breeding. In their opinion,
provided only the problem of funds is settled, other problems, such as forage grass, market
outlet, fold, etc., can be solved by themselves. Humagou Village under Luming Township is
a place cross-inhabited by the Hui, Han and Dongxiang people, where villagers are mostly
quite poor with less amount of sheep on hand but in a strong desire to raise sheep for more
income. They hope to raise small-tailed cold-tolerant sheep with the loan, alleging that such
sheep is fast-fattening, fertile and high in survival rate, so it will be favorably profitable from
marketing (local sheep is all fast-fatting mutton sheep).
Case: Bao Jianzhong-a teacher of the Dongxiang nationality
Bao Jianzhong, 37 years old, has 3 children, whose old father live along with them. As they
introduce, their family is among the earliest ones that raise sheep and accordingly somewhat
experienced and fruitful. A head of ewe they raise bore 8 lambs last year, which excited the
whole family and convinced them that sheep breeding would surely lead to enrichment. They
desire to build new warmhouses, pens and raise more sheep on a larger scale when granted
the loan. They request the loan be granted directly from banks other than via the govemment
due to their distrust thereof that the govemment will not serve them. They also reflected the
fact of a strained relationship between peasants and the local govemment, besides, no one
interferes in the disordered public security locally/
5. How will Major Nationalities at Locations of Investigation Be Affected?
5.1 Positive Influences
5.1.1   Promotion of equality for minorities
Firstly, areas where minorities inhabit are the major affected areas in Gansu. Furthermore,
villages inhabited or cross-inhabited by major minorities of Gansu, including Hui, Tibetan,
Yugur, Tu and Dongxiang, all have the opportunity to tale part in the assessment under the
Project as key objects of concern and are fully entitled to the Project planning, which will
necessarily reflect the desires and demands of minorities to a greater extent. Consequently,
the way that the Project is executed will help promote the equal participation and benefits
24



among minorities at the affected areas.
Secondly, for the Yugur people, a nationality living on sheep herding from of old, the Project
has a fundamental purpose to develop stockbreeding, which is the right foundation that all
the habits and customs of Yugur herdsmen subsist on and in accordance with their desire of
development. The Tibetans have lived on stockbreeding for generations, those now living at
Tianzhu District lead a semi-agricultural and semi-pastoral life by growing certain highland
crops in fields, such as highland barley and oat, to supplement forage grasses for livestock,
who also expect a quicker development in the local stockbreeding. The implementation of
the 3 subprojects will increase their level of animal production, promoting the economic and
social development of the Tibetans. The Hui people, living on agriculture largely and
stock-breeding auxiliarily, give a higher priority to doing business. Selling, primary
processing of cowhide and sheepskin are traditional businesses of the Hui people. This
Project, aimning to improve the integrated animal production in Gansu and Xinjiang, will
surely offer the Hui people a greater opportunity of development. Accordingly, the Project
will be advantageous to the equal development among minorities.
Thirdly, according to this investigation and analysis of literatures, the common characteristic
of all the affected minorities is that "development means everything". The concept in pursuit
of integrated social and cultural development on the basis of economy has been a common
understanding to all the strata of different minorities, which is manifested by the eagerness of
peasants and herdsmen for loans and investments under the Project, as well as the planning
of development of each county and township. Stepping from obstruction to openness, this is
another common feature among all the affected minorities, which is embodied as "going out
(working out of home, doing business and widening the eyeshot by visit) and inviting-in (to
development tourism characteristic of national customs, invite businesses and attract capital,
improve the investment environment by policy making)". Accordingly, from the perspective
of practical benefits for the affected minorities, the Project means "a step further" for the Hui
villagers at Waxia Village under Kangle County, "a timely help" for villagers at Kangfeng
and Saiding Villages under Sunan County, and "an incidental boost" for those at Honggeda
and Tanyaogou Villages under Tianzhu County. This will certainly be contributive to the
equal development among the affected minorities.
5.1.2   Promotion of women's status
Firstly, it was found from investigation that all the nationalities (inclusive of women) at the
locations where the two rounds of social assessments were made acknowledge that family is
an entirety in local cultures and realities, where family members are a community indivisible
economically. The credit program under the Project for families will offer women therein a
greater opportunity to participate and improve. For example, the technical training specially
for women will inevitably improve their technical level in animal production.
Secondly, at the locations of investigation, girls stand in the breach in losing the opportunity
of receiving education due to the shortage of educational funds, objectively rendering them
unable to obtain an opportunity of equal development. The Project, on the basis to improve
the household income of peasants and herdsmen, will improve the financial status for girls'
being educated, granting more chances of development to potential women at the affected
areas.
5.1.3   Significance for environmental protection
At pastoral areas, the animal production relies mainly on the natural environment in that an
increased output or income is closely related to the consumption of the nature. Overgrazing
and irrational development, utilization of lands or grasslands have caused factitious damages
25



to the ecological environment, as well as frequent natural calamities, such as desertification
and dryness. The subproject of grassland construction and management directs towards such
phenomena for effective harnessing, which is the greatest significance for environmental
protection thereunder. The Project shall also improve the unit output from animal production
at the affected areas and reduce the dependency of extensive stockbreeding upon grassland
resources by designing scientific, rational breeding methods and improving the marketing
system of animal products, embodying an active ecological significance.
5.1.4   Significance for boosting of living standard
Firstly, all the affected minorities have a habit of eating beef and mutton. The Project, when
duly implemented, will improve the quality and output thereof and accordingly their trophic
structure by means of breed improvement.
Secondly, the comprehensive implementations of the above 3 subprojects will lead to direct
benefits economically as a basis to improve the living standards of the affected families on a
higher level of income. From the results of this investigation, the production costs at pastoral
areas are continually increasing and the productivity of stockbreeding is reducing because of
dryness and other disasters, so that herdsmen are spending a greater part of their income on
productive investments, which is the most prominent in South Gansu, objectively leading the
living standard of herdsmen to a lower level. At agricultural areas, the price fall of fann
products and the increase in agricultural production costs have also resulted in the reduction
in the living standard of peasants. The Project, by supporting the development of cultivation,
creates an excellent opportunity to increase income for peasants affected, mitigating negative
effects on their living standard resulting from the price fall of farm products.
5.2 Possible Adverse Effects from the Project
5.2.1   Impacts on traditional lifestyle of nationalities
The breeding of large amounts of fine-wool-sheep, the introduction of processing techniques
up to international standards and the establishment of a marketing system, will transform the
prevailing technical field of stockbreeding and operational field of animal products at the
affected areas, compelling groups concerned to alter established behavior pattern. As found
in our investigation at Sunan and Kangle Counties, generally, Yugur herdsmen at Sunan live
on stockbreeding, the Hui people at Kangle make a living by selling cattle and sheep. They
have formed a system and cycle of livestock breeding and sales. However, once advanced
techniques and an extended market are introduced under the Project, the public of different
nationalities might have to make a choice between their traditional operating pattern and the
modern market and technology, which may lead to a transformation in lifestyle and the loss
of traditional national features.
5.2.2   Adverse effects on relationship among ethnic groups
The Project may also cause a strained relationship among ethnic groups. As we mentioned
above, a nationality has its own industrial characteristics, for example, the Tibetans and the
Yugur people are engaged in stockbreeding, while the Hui people in business. Among them,
an interdependent system has already taken form. The popularization of technology and the
extension of market may lead to inter-national contradictions due to industrial competitions.
At some multinational cross-inhabited villages, a strained relationship among nationalities
may potentially arise from the granting of loan, which is especially true for some relatively
disadvantaged ones, such as the Dongxiang and Tu nationalities.
26



5.2.3   Adverse effects on environmental protection
The Project is designed to popularize new steps for grassland management and improvement
and advocate scientific stable breeding, which all reflect the sense of environment protection.
However, from a practical point of view, stock barns and human residences are arranged in a
same space side by side, which will inevitably affect the living environment to some extent.
5.2.4   Adverse effects on boosting of living standard
If the Project is implemented under improper management, peasants and herdsmen will be
exposed to higher risks in investment and economic losses, so that their living standard may
be reduced.
5.3 How to Reduce Adverse Effects?
5.3.1   Reasonable project planning
The Project shall be properly planned and deployed according to the geographically living
environments and historical characteristics of different nationalities with measures tailored to
local conditions. While showing respect to the historical traditions and living experiences of
the nationalities, all efforts shall be made to ensure a sustainable growth of the Project.
5.3.2   Reasonable planning for market system
Aiming at the possible industrial competitions resulting from the market extension and the
inter-national contradictions that may arise therefrom, it is important to well plan the market
zoning and scaling under the subproject of animal product marketing with a view to facilitate
product circulation without any redundant construction or cut-throat competition.
5.3.3   Popularizing stockbreeding and cultivation techniques, developing sense of market
For the possible reduction in the living standard of peasants caused by risk investment, the
subproject of monitoring in the Project design may solve the problem partially. At the same
time, the technical training on Project management dedicated for administrators at all levels
and that on stockbreeding shall be addressed. Moreover, efforts shall be made to strengthen
the sense of market of peasants and herdsmen.
5.3.4   Respect for disadvantaged groups
The possible pressure of gender role for Moslem women will be gradually alleviated with the
generation of economic benefits under the Project and the popularization and improvement
of education for girls. To address the negative influences on the inhabited environment, it is
necessary to initiate a separate subproject for stall reconstruction.
6. Suggestions
6.1 Suggestions of Peasants and Herdsmen on Loan Granting
It is suggested to organize lending directly by lending institutions instead of govemments at all
levels and the most importantly, to provide funds for development at longer terms. Hui peasants
at Waxia and Humagou Villages under Kangle County who deal mainly with fattening think that
the period of 3-5 years is enough for profiting and paying off. Tibetan herdsmen at Tianzhu and
Sunan Counties suggest that the term be longer, namely, to repay the interest from the IO'h year of
implementation and to pay off the principal within 20 years. This is because, the loan to them will
be used for improvement of grassland and livestock breeds, construction of pens, so it will take a
27



longer time to profit practically.
6.2 Suggestions on Equal Participation of Nationalities
At some multinational cross-inhabited villages, people of different nationalities shall be attracted
to participate in the Project implementation and management as many as possible with a higher
transparency and equality.
County, township and village administrators claim that they will, within their respective authority,
give priority to the demands of minorities, collect; their suggestions and have the Project planning
made based thereon, so as to guarantee an equal participation. In their opinion, leading to their
jurisdictions as minority administrative divisions means a guarantee to equal participation.
During the Project management and supervision, the PRA method shall be employed periodically
to show concern for the affected minorities in participation. Their participative behaviors shall be
adjusted reasonably with a view to ensure their equal and full-course participation. Additionally,
the incorporation of a certain proportion of minority representatives in local Project management
offices or teams as definite roles or duties will make sure the timely reflection of special needs of
minorities into the Project planning and execution.
6.3 Suggestions on Participation of Minorities and Women
Women at Honggeda Village under Tianzhu County hold that, they will also benefit from the loan
granted to their families, because they will save efforts by purchasing clothes for the family other
than tailoring manually, on the other hand, they will be dressed up like townsmen without being
looked down upon as countrywomen, which may help them find a good job. Women at Kangfeng
and Saiding Villages under Sunan County think that they may offer their children better education
conditions when their household income rise with the development of financed sheep breeding.
They told that two children of a herdsman's family at a nearby village have passed the entrance
examination for collage but failed to get enrolled due to the limited financial status of the family.
Women of the Hui nationality expect that more funds under the Project to be used for cultivation,
which is now generally dealt with by them at home. They also think it a way to raise their status
at home.
The women's federation of Tianzhu County think that, enabling women's federations at all levels
to participate in the Project management, such as the planning at Project offices, is an effective
measure ensuring women's equal participation. The women director at Zhuaxixiulong Township
under Tianzhu County consider that the loan should also be granted to women, because they don't
drink, have a clear mind, are good at housekeeping and willing to discuss with other members of
the family. Once provided with technical training, they will have better performance over men. In
the view of the women's federation of Sunan County, since Yugur women enjoy a very high
family status, women will be major participants and beneficiaries from any loan directly granted
to such families. Of course, it is also necessary to have women assume some managerial posts.
Women's participation and benefits may be guaranteed by both the loan dedicated to peasants and
herdsmen and their joining Project managerial organizations of all levels in a proper proportion,
so that considerations may be given to their special needs. For example, it is feasible to assign a
representative from all levels of women's federations to join the working team under the Project
office at the same level and hold a concurrent post!therein.
28



6.4 There are some experienced aged people at each affected county and township,
who master the local knowledge on stockbreeding and grassland ecology and are
of special significance to the Multinational Participation Program.
Accordingly, the Group should incorporate such people with rich local knowledge
and experiences and pay special attention to their suggestions on the Project
implementation.
6.5 In the training under the Project, national languages both spoken and written
shall be used and the knowledge on the local animal production shall be included.
In detail, the training shall cover the following aspects as the national
distribution and cultures may be:
(1) Project offices at the county level shall organize specialized technicians and
local aged people experienced in animal production to collect and compile the
data with direct relation to the Project implementation, especially to the
animal production (including breeding, feeding and utilization of grassland
resources), and further combine with modern technology organically to be
popularized to participants of this Multinational Project. Moreover,
technicians are further encouraged to include such data in the materials for
technical training (e. g., knowledge and experiences of Uigur peasants at the
affected counties and townships in South Xinjiang on the stable breeding of
livestock, those of herdsmen in the pastoral areas in North Xinjiang on the
selection of fine breeds).
(2) County Project offices should focus the multinational development training on
the modern technology and marketing knowledge on stockbreeding. At the same
time, they should give priority to the youth of minorities and women in training
to turn them into the backbone for Project implementation.
(3) It is suggested to list the training on modem livestock technology into the technical training
programs of the councils for science and technology at the affected counties. The marketing
training shall be oriented to the local market conditions about animal products with focus on
training a number of minority talents proficient in both technology and marketing for animal
production. Project offices at autonomous regions, districts and counties should formulate a
feasible program for such training funded under the Project.
(4) Gender. In training, local grassroots cadres must be consulted as to whether the training shall
be given to men and women separately.
(5) Religion. In technical training, national prohibitions should be respected.
6.6 Herdsmen's Participation in Market Training and Experimental Loan Program
This program aims to provide an opportunity for minorities to leam marketing knowledge, so that
herdsmen will be able to understand and enter the circulation market.
Experiment: Within the Affected Areas, a major stockbreeding village shall be selected for Yugur
and Tibetan each to conduct training (using materials compiled by the experts organized by World
Bank) and loan granting.
29



(1) Investigate the whole-village situations of stockbreeding especially related to marketing.
(2) Conduct marketing training to be organized by associations of herdsmen on herdsmen of the
whole village (on a voluntary basis);
(3) Village associations of herdsmen shall nominate suitable businessmen for further training,
including market visit;
(4) Grant trade loan to association of herdsmen, to be handled by trained persons;
(5) Conduct a follow-up investigation 1 year later to understand experimental results;
(6) A location shall be selected at Zhuoni with Gannan Tibetan Project Area and Sunan Yugur
Autonomous County in Gansu each;
(7) The cooperative shares system may apply to suitable places for shared interests and risks.
6.7 Language
The Project briefing and training shall be made using the local national or an intelligible language.
(1) The Project manual, training materials and loan contract shall be made out in local languages
at minority nationality regions;
(2) When a contract is entered into with an illiterate, the contract contents must be briefed with a
language intelligible to him (her).
As seen by the Project Office, the principle of sustainable development shall serve
as the principal criterion for evaluating the benefit on loan. In the present Project
design, the improvement of stock breeds and grassland, increase in economic benefit
and market construction are addressed, which is very necessary. However,
diversified development programs shall be tailored to local conditions in order
to fulfill these objectives, in which the, economic growth shouldn' t be the sole
indicator. At the same time, paying high attention to the optimization of human
capital within the affected areas is essential to the sustainable development of
the Project. In detail, the Project must take the rights and benefits of the affected
minorities into account in its implementation, for which it is suggested as follows:
1) County and township Project offices should guarantee the right of all ethnic groups to leam
about the progress of the Project by notifying of how the Project is implemented, and make a
special explanation to them when the interests, of minority groups are involved with a view to
obtain their understanding and support.
2) Point I) (suggested to be placed under the BPP) may be, exercised in conjunction with the
relevant actions under the "Beneficiary Participation Program".
3) The Project must be implemented on the basis of respect for the cultures of the affected ethnic
groups. In detail, some concrete practices during implementation in conflict with some local
cultural customs or having negative influences thereon should be ceased.
4) Set up a channel of complaint for the affected ethnic groups and individuals in order that their
suggestions and proposals may be reflected and adopted (combined with the relevant actions
under the BPP) as follows:
a)  Issue a "complaint and suggestion table for Project implementation" printed in national
written languages to minority groups and individuals for them to lodge complaints in a
30



timely fashion.
b) County and township Project offices shall prepare a proposal of measures for disposal of
such complaints, stipulating the handling time and procedures.
c) Settle timely whatever event encroaching on the rights and interests of disadvantaged
ethnic groups and individuals during the implementation of the Project.
7. The Legal Framework for Designing the Project MEGDP
The Constitution and other relevant laws and regulations of China stipulate that all the
nationalities of China enjoy the rights for their social, economic and cultural development, and
that in the regions where a major nationality, with other nationalities, inhabit, the system of the
minority nationality autonomous system should be practiced. According to the principles, the
autonomous institutions are established at three levels of administration: the Autonomous Region
(equal to a province), the Autonomous Prefecture (equal to a prefecture) and the Autonomous
County. In addition in the towns (townships) where the compact inhabiting by certain minority
nationality is high, the minority nationality Township is established. In the minority nationality
autonomous regions, the minority autonomous rights are practiced and the minority nationalities
exercise their own right to decide and manage their own affairs. In Xinjiang, according to the Law
of Minority Nationality Autonomy, the Uygur Autonomous Region was established in 1954 and
before or after it five autonomous prefectures were established: Yili Kazak Autonomous
Prefecture, Bayinguoleng Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture, Bortala Mongolian Autonomous
Prefecture, Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture and Kirzlesu Kirkiz Autonomous Prefecture.
Besides, 6 autonomous counties and 42 minority Townships were established.
Within the legal framework of the Law of Minority Nationality Autonomy, the ethnic groups of
Xinjiang enjoy the rights as the following:
-   The right for equal rights for all the nationalities
-   The rights to make autonomous regulations and specific regulations for managing the affairs
of the local finance, economic development, training and employing minority officials,
managing the affairs of education, science and technology and culture.
-   The rights to use and develop the languages and writing systems of the minority nationalities
(ethnic groups).
-   The rights for the freedom of religious beliefs.
-   The rights to maintain the ethnic customs and the regulations on the other nationalities'
respect of these customs.
-   The rights of the important proportion of non-Han officials in the autonomous institutions.
-   The rights to develop their own economy and enjoy the state and regional preferences
for them
-   The rights for the development of their own culture, education, science and technology.
-   The rights to enjoy the preferences in the implementation of the national policy of
family planning.
It is based on the laws that the state have made and granted many preferential policies for the
minority nationalities so as to ensure that the rights to be guaranteed. And it is based on the state
laws that the Xinjiang Regional People's Congress has made many local laws and relevant
regulations for the implementation of them according to the practical conditions of the
31



multi-ethnic existence and their cultures.
What is significant of the above laws and regulations for the present Project are what the National
Laws stipulate that the minority nationalities have the rights on the land in which they live
generation by generation. The Law of Minority Nationality Zone Autonomy stipulates that the
autonomous institutions of the minority nationality autonomous zones have the rights to the
ownership and utility of the pastures and forests within the zone and that they have the rights to
the management of the natural resources and maintenance of them and that they have the priority
to explore and use the natural resources according to the laws and regulations and the state plan
for development.
It is clear that there exists the legal basis for the MEGDP designed by the PMO and within the
legal framework the rights of the minority ethnic groups in the project areas to participate in the
Project and to develop are guaranteed by the above items of the laws of China and the relevant
regulations of the Region. And the implementation of the project and its specific items are legally
protected.
8. About Land Ownership
The issue of land ownership is highly significant for the multinational development at the affected
areas. Presently, the land ownership takes on the following 3 forms at the counties and townships
where the Project is planned to be implemented:
(1) All the land is owned by the State or the collective, where the State sets up land management
organs at the county (state land administration) and township (land administrative station)
levels for settling formalities for the approval of land use. However, county and township
govemments has a great influence on.
(2) Peasants and herdsmen have obtained the right to use lands and grasslands by law (entering
into a contract of land use) through the two reforms made in 1984 (a tenure of 10 years) and
1992-1994 (a tenure of 30-50 years) respectively with a "land (and grassland) use certificate"
issued by the govemment. As stipulated by the State, a change in land tenancy shall be made
between peasants/herdsmen and the govemment. If peasants/herdsmen disagree to change,
neither the govemmen't nor the villagers' committee is entitled to reclaim their land tenancy
at will.
(3) For former state farms, some are practicing the above system pursued in rural areas, some are
still maintaining the system that the right to use lands and grasslands belongs to farms and
livestock farms, where peasants and herdsmen may avail themselves of resources inclusive
of livestock by means of contracting for farming and herding, and state farms have the right
to reclaim such lands and grasslands as the case may be.
(4) Recently at some townships and villages, township govemments or villagers' committees
have decided to rent some local lands to extemal companies and individuals for farming. At
some townships within pastoral areas, the case that grasslands (regarded as "wastelands" by
the local govemment) are contracted to extemal companies and individuals for development
(mainly of crop cultivation) has appeared, which may give rise to some new changes in the
land use right at agricultural and pastoral areas.
At all the affected counties, all the nationalities bound to agricultural and pastoral
areas have got an equal opportunity to use land. In most cases, they land tenancy is guaranteed. At
some places, ethnic groups with a smaller population even enjoy preferences with regard to land
use. However, the problem lies in the land area and quality, especially in irrigation conditions and
inter-regional disparities, some existing lands are unable to deliver sufficient natural resources at
32



some places. In addition, the prevalent grassland. deterioration in pastoral areas has resulted in a
significant fall in the output on the originally sufficient grassland resources.
Therefore, in the general, the development of the affected minorities are guaranteed
institutionally in relation to land resources.
In order to ensure the entitlement of participants of different nationalities to land resources and
tumrit into an integral part under the MDP, the following actions should be taken into account:
(1) The duly organized Multinational Development Team shall give audience to complaints
from the Project participants about their land and grassland resources being occupied
illegally and report to competent govermnental authorities timely for proper measures to
be taken to guarantee their rights;
(2) Grasslands of the affected families shall remain unchanged, which shall not be randomly
expropriated by local govemments.
(3) To secure a sustainable development for the Project, Project implementing organizations
shall define protection and rewarding measures with relation to grassland resources with
all the affected ethnic groups.
9. Supervision and Evaluation
The supervision and evaluation on the Project implementation also apply to the implementation of
the MDP but in a different mechanism and manner.
It is suggested to establish 3 independent but closely cooperative supervisory
mechanism, one is to be established by the affected peasants and herdsmen for
supervision on the Project transparency, feedback and complaint, another is the
supervision and evaluation on the Project (by supervisors assigned by World Bank)
and the other is the supervision by superintendent offices under all levels of
government on the Xinjiang Project Office and county Project offices.
Supervisory and observational investigations must be conducted every year on an irregular basis
to understand how the Program is being implemented, based on which an observation report shall
be submitted to World Bank and the Provincial Project Office.
Irregular SuDervision/Observation:
I   Such activities must be carried out by an independent academic institution outside the region
(province) where the Project is implemented.
2   The supervisory organ shall be negotiated between World Bank and the Project Office.
3   An observation report must be submitted to World Bank and the Provincial/Regional Project
Office.
The evaluation of the Project shall include that on how the MDP is being implemented, however,
a separate evaluation is also needed for this program, which shall take the form of staged midterm
evaluation presided by social assessment experts organized by World Bank.
Midterm Evaluation:
33



I Such midterm evaluation must be carried out by an independent academic institution outside
the region (province) where the Project is implemented.
2   The evaluation organization shall be negotiated between World Bank and the Project Office.
3   An midterm evaluation report must be submitted to World Bank and the Provincial/Regional
Project Office based on full understanding of the implementation of the MDP.
34



1O.Timing of Execution
The MDP shall be implemented under a definite and easily operable time frame. According to the
Project timing, we hereby suggest a three-phase course of implementation.
Phase       Task                 Action                Objective         Time
I   Understanding the  1) MDP discussion among  Participate in program First 3 months
Project and MDP      minority villagers    formulation to enhance of
2) Fixing detailed programs the confidence of  implementation
for village and family  participation
3) Gaining support from the
Project
H   Formulating detailed 1) Formulating the programs 1) Improve livestock Midterm of
programs for village 2) Training, implementation  2) Learn new skills  implementatior
and family        3) Finishing some affairs  3) Improve grassland
Commencement of     thereunder                conditions
implementation
m    Ongoing           1) Self-evaluation by village Generate sustainability Late stage of
implementation       and family                                mplementatior
-2) Continued training
35



Time Schedule
Duration    Activity    Organizer    Participant        Requirements           Source of
funds
Set up village County Project All villagers  1) Combined use of election and Project
Project teams office (PO)                 negotiation              management
2) Minority delegates involved
3) Women delegates involved
(more than 30%)
Set up       County PO     Delegates of  1) Village delegates not less than Ditto
township                   village Project  60%
Project teams              teams       2) Township cadres involved
Oct.-Dec., Multilingual  PO          All levels of  1) An intelligible manual  Ditto
2002      manual                     PO and social 2) Standard translation of
Drafting                   assessment     Uigur/Kazakh/Mongolian
Translation               experts      3) Issued as per lingual
Issuance                                  distribution (see annex)
Training     PO            Local       1) In languages intelligible to  Special fund
beneficiaries   locals (see annexed lingual  for subproject
distribution)            of applied
Training on  County council Village    2) Young and literate       research and
modem        for science and delegates                             trauiing
stockbreeding technology
technology                     _
Training on  PO            Village     Under an outline prepared by  1) Subproject
marketing                  delegates   experts organized by World Bank to construct
market system
2) Applied
research and
training
Collect and  All levels of PO Experienced  Put collected knowledge into  Applied
compile local and village  herdsmen and training                   research and
knowledge    Project teams  professionals                          training
Oct.      Take part in  PO and Social All villagers;  1) Select a major stockbreeding  1) Subproject
2002-2003 experimental Assessment    Advanced        Uigur/Kazakh/Mongolian   to construct
marketing    Group        training for    village for experiment    market system
training     /marketing    villagers able 2) Granting of trade loan,  2) Subproject
teams         to do business  handled by trained persons  of training
Once every Midterm     Social        Social       1) By an academic institution  Project
3 years   evaluation   assessment    assessment      outside the affected region/  management,
after startup          institution   experts         province                 supervision,
of the                                            2) Such an institution decided by evaluation
Project                                              World Bank and PO
Irregularly Supervision,  Social     Social       1) By an academic institution  Project
every year observation on assessment  assessment    outside the affected region/  management,
(absent in  MDP        institution   experts        province                  supervision,
years of                                          2) Such an institution decided by evaluation
midterm                                             World Bank and PO
evaluation)
36



