March 27th, 2002, Wednesday
E614
Volume 3
Gansu Beneficiary Participation Manual
under
World Bank Financed
Integrated Stockbreeding Development
Project of China
Gansu Provincial Project Office
2002/3/27






FOREWORD
The Integrated Stockbreeding Development Project (the ISDP) aims to improve the living
standard of herdsmen in Gansu Province and Xinjiang Uigur Autonomous Region by
building up the competitiveness of the Chinese stockbreeding and improving the production
and management system of stockbreeding while maintaining the sustainable utilization of
natural resources. The Project will be executed with an integrated methodology, where the
improvement in capacity of animal production will be related.to the sustainable management
on grasslands, the establishment of a reliable supply system of forages, the improvement of
animal production by hybridization and breeding, the establishment and enhancement of
local associations of herdsmen, the improvement of livestock marketing network and the
setup of an effective legal system and organizational system.
This proposed project will be so designed to address the problems prevalent in some areas of
West China, including rural poverty, serious grassland deterioration, unsustainability in the
mode of stockbreeding production. Accordingly, the proposed project will be a trilogy: i)
grassland management and improvement; ii) stockbreeding production, and iii) marketing of
animal products. In addition, the Project management, supervision and evaluation shall be a
separate integral part thereunder.
Under the Project, the extensive participation of beneficiaries in its preparation, design,
implementation and evaluation thereof is a fundamental objective for its development and an
active measure for its ultimate success, which will be based on the initiative participation of
beneficiaries (peasants and herdsmen mainly). Consequently, it is necessary to increase their
initiative of participation in the ongoing Project. This "Beneficiary Participation Manual"
formalizes and normalizes the course of consultation to the affected groups into a controlled
mechanism to make sure all the interest parties are involved in decision making. This is also
a strategy that allows the affected to dominate and share their control power with respect to
the Project and resources, minimizing the social costs of the ongoing.Project, eliminating
whatever negative influence that may arise therefrom and reducing the disparity related to
wealth, nationality and social gender'.
This Manual is drafted by the Cross-cultural Consulting Center at Zhongshan University. Sce the "Social
Assessment Report under thc Integrated Gansu Stockbreeding Development Projcct" for related data.






I. Analysis of Benefits under the Project
1. Analysis of Benefited Groups
1.1 Distribution Characteristics of Benefited Groups
(1) Distribution of Benefited Groups
So far, there are 14 counties (cities) in Gansu Province that have applied for the ISDP, including
Jiuquan City in Jiuquan District; Zhangve Citv Sunan Yugur Autonomous Countg. Yongchane
County under Jinchang City in Zhangye District; Weiwu Citv, Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous
Couny, Linaix Coy and Kangle County under Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture, Lintan
Count and Zhuoni Count under Ganlan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Jing2uan Count
under Baiyin City in Weiwu District, Lintao Countv and Ding2xi County, Yuzhong Countv under
Lanzhou City in Dingxi District, which all belong to the directly benefited areas. In addition, the
Huangcheng sheep farm of Gansu, the fine poultry and livestock breed farm of Gansu and the
Haoweier Dairy Products Group Company are also involved in this Project as direct beneficiaries.
According to the statistical data in 1999, the above 14 counties have a total rural population of
6,322,800, accounting for 31.30% that of the whole province and 24.87% of the total population
of the Province. If residents around the above participating counties are counted in, the number
would be greater, who are also beneficiaries under the Project.
Among the 9 directly affected districts, prefectures and cities, Jiuquan, Jinchang, Zhangye and
Wuwei fall into the Yellow-River-West Irrigated Farmiing Zone and the Qilian Mountain Pastoral
Zone; Linxia and Gannan are minority regions, or the Southern High, Cold and Dank Zone in
terms of industries, where the agricultural foundation is week but stockbreeding developed with
a tradition of sheep herding; Dingxi, Baiyin and Lanzhou belong to the Midland Dry Agricultural
Zone. Particularly, Sunan and Tianzhu are purely pastoral counties, while the others are
semi-agricultural and semi-pastoral ones. The Project has essentially covered the major pastoral
and semi-agricultural/semi-pastoral areas in Gansu Province.
(2) Anticipated Number and Distribution of Beneficiaries Related to Each Subproject
Under the subproject of grassland management and improvement, it is estimated that herdsmen
on a pastureland area of 543,300 ha will become beneficiaries. Under the subproject of sheep
breed improvement, a population of about 4,800,500 out of 960,100 families in the affected
counties will be benefited; under the other subproject-the construction of marketplace, in
addition to peasants, herdsmen and town dwellers trading on the marketplace, residents around
the participant counties and those in the coverage of the marketplace for livestock products are
also included in the benefited population, which is estimated to be not less than 10,000,000 in
Gansu Province only, nearly 50% of the total population of the Province.
The benefits arising from the Project shall vary with the correlation with the Project. From the
perspective of zoning, core area and fringe areas might be formed. Core areas refer to such small
communities as townships, towns, bazaars and villages, where the loan under the Project is
mainly allocated and direct beneficiaries gather. Fringe areas refer to communities around the
aforesaid communities, where indirect beneficiaries are distributed. Since the implementation of
the Project may produce a staged outward diffusive effect, fringe, areas may be differentiated into
several fringe sub-areas with different degrees of benefit, which wvill be benefited more directly if
closer to anywhere the Project is implemented, vice versa.



The benefiting duration resulting from the Project shall be: 3 years as the construction period, 2
years as the commissioning period, output on the 611 year of implementation and 15 years as the
estimated period before profiting. According to herdsmen, any livestock breed would deteriorate
after 3 years of continuous use, therefore the benefiting period from breed improvement will be
the shortest. Moreover, the benefiting period from grassland management and improvement is no
longer than 20 years, because both the natural environment and technology are always changing
at a shorter and shorter cycle averagely, but the ecological benefits arising from the grassland
management and improvement will be long dated for the residents in the affected areas. It may
take a longer period to benefit from the construction of marketing system. If well managed, the
Project will offer long-term social benefits.
(3) Distribution of Disadvantaged Benefited Groups
Minority counties account for 75% of the participant counties in this social appraisal. At the 4
counties investigated, large numbers of nationality populations are found in belief of Islam, such
as the Hui, Dongxiang, Baoan and Salar people, as well as those in belief of Tibet-introduced
Buddhism, including the Tibetans, Tu and Yugur people, were they inhabit are core areas under
the Project. Additionally, a considerable number of poor families exist at the affected areas,
particularly at Linxia, Kangle, Lintan, Jingyuan, Dingxi and Lintao Counties, which themselves
are poor counties in Gansu Province and areas that poor populations of the Province are the most
concentrated. Lending to them to help them develop production is of greater significance than to
non-poor counties whether for these poor populations or for the poor counties.
1.2 Composition of Benefited Groups
The basic benefited public is composed of all the peasants and herdsmen (inclusive of women,
the elderly and children, workers out of home, believers of different religions, the poor) in the
affected areas, both those from surrounding areas and townsmen who purchase their livestock
products, enterprises and individuals engaged in product circulation and processing, technicians
and other personnel at county/township farms and stations, all levels of governments in the
Province involved in Project management, civil servants, institutes involved in technical
consultation and research in relation to the Project and staff of schools.
(1) Peasants and herdsmen are a benefited group, to whom the Project is directly relative,
because the loan is mostly directly lent to them and partially indirectly also to them
otherwise to produce benefits. Not only peasants and herdsmen at the affected counties, but
those from other counties/cities will be involved in the rolling benefits under the Project.
For instance, the construction good strain breeding farms and introduction of fine livestock
breeds will also be oriented to peasants and herdsmen in the non-affected areas while
serving those in the affected areas, so as to increase their household income by improving
their breeds. Peasants and herdsmen with varied class status will be benefited at different
degrees. When an economically able person is granted a loan, he shall bring along the poor
who are unskilled and unable to manage to develop business projects, while disadvantaged
groups, such as the poor, may obtain funds to develop products in the most urgent need.
(2) Women are a directly benefited group. Since many men labors in the affected rural areas are
working out of home or engaged in nonagricultural businesses, women serve as the main
undertaker of household stockbreeding productions. Accordingly, the Project will help
improve their living conditions and degree of involvement in labor, reduce any inequality
caused by sexual disparity and turn women into important participants and beneficiaries. In



rural families at the locations of investigation, the labor-capable elderly are also mair
participants of household fish breeding and poultry raising, which requires a smaller laboi
intensity than crop cultivation and is more suitable for the healthy elderly. Consequently, the
Project will also directly benefit the elderly in the affected areas.
(3) Children and the labor-incapable elderly are an indirectly benefited group. The Project shall
be implemented to improve the living standard and household income of peasants,
herdsmen and townsmen, further benefiting those disabled or labor-incapable. The elderly
will be better supported, children will be educated under better conditions with theii
necessary nutritional standard during their growth and development period increased
correspondingly; particularly, the educated period for the next generation will be prolonged.
For examnple, the son of Wang Xinwen-a peasant at Humagou Village, was admitted to a
technical school in Weiwu after graduation from a junior high school, but he finally gave it
up failing to pay the tuition and incidentals amounting to RMB5,000. Owing to poverty,
children of large numbers of families had to discontinue their study at the stages of primary
school or junior high school, or became qualified for but unable to enter a school. When
their household income increases with the continuation of the Project, these problems will
be effectively come to a relief.
(4) The poor is a directly benefited group. In the sequencing of causes to poverty made by
residents at the locations of investigation, "low literacy and absence of a professional skill"
is the principal cause to poverty. In their opinion, low literacy inevitably gives rise to
informational obstruction, low competitiveness and inability to develop, fund shortage
necessary for production is a more direct cause to further poverty of the poor. The loan
under the Project aimning at peasants and herdsmen will directly improve their conditions to
develop production.
(5) Various livestock farms and stations at county/city, township/town and village levels are
also a directly benefited group, which is the major technical support system to the Project
and also the direct undertaker thereof, and will be directly benefited from direct loans and
technical services oriented to peasants and herdsmen without question.
(6) Specialized transporters, commercial corporations and small retailers are also a benefited
group. With the market development and enlargement, the demand for transportation and
marketing will increase correspondingly. Commercial firms engaged in processing of
livestock products, such as Haoweier Dairy Products Group Company, not only may acquire
raw materials of better quality when their surrounding affected areas become benefited, but
also serve as direct executives of the Project, creating new channels to make money for
individual retailers of the Hui nationality purchasing, trafficking and processing cattle,
sheep and pelt.
(7) Townsmen are another benefited group. The Project is surely to carry the productivity of
stockbreeding onto a higher level, offering townsmen livestock products with good quality
for money.
(8) The Gansu Provincial Government, all levels of governments at participant counties (cities)
and townships (towns) are also a benefited group, because the Project will be implemented
under the organization and leadership of the government to engender sustained benefits. For
example, the increased local fiscal revenue arising from added taxes will somewhat improve
the office facilities of local governments in Gansu Province and finance more funds for
local development.



(9) Managers of the affected areas are direct beneficiaries. Thanks to the advanced management
approaches employed in the Project, such as the full-course involvement of those benefiting
from the Project, managers of the affected areas will be able to continually receive training
on participative managerial techniques at each stage of the Project as required for its
implementation, when their level of management will be elevated.
(10) World Bank, the most important beneficiary, will win favorable economic and social
benefits by helping Gansu Province and the Uigur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang develop
the industry of stockbreeding through lending. Investing in China-a country featuring
rapidly developing economy, social stability and prosperous market-is in great prospect of
profiting at low risks. Accordingly, at the maturity of the loan, World Bank will undoubtedly
recover the principal and interest in full, securing a tangible asset, also build a nice image
before the Chinese and the World, winning a precious intangible asset.
(11) Splitting of direct and indirect beneficiaries: Among the integral groups of all the
beneficiaries, those engaged in the production and circulation of stockbreeding belong to
direct beneficiaries, those not or only indirectly engaged in such activities are indirect ones.
In this way, peasants, herdsmen, county/township (town)-level farns and stations,
specialized transporter, commercial firms and smaller retailers are direct beneficiaries, while
the government, townsmen, the elderly and children in rural areas (when they aren't
engaged in the production and circulation of stockbreeding) belong to the latter type.



2. Expectations of Beneficiary Participation
The degree of involvement of peasants and herdsmen is a measurement of their sense of mnastery
and the manner and durability they care about their own interests. Under ideal conditions, the
degree of involvement of Project participants, embodied in beneficiaries' enthusiasm to scramble
for a loan, purposefulness to utilize it and neticulousness of planninc thereabout, is proportional
to their degree of being benefited.
2.1 Involvement Degree of Peasants and Herdsmen
(1) It is understood by every peasant and herdsman that enrichment comes only fronm diligence
and no fund, no development. Anyone, whether senior, intermediate or junior in termis of
economic status, has a desire of borrowing and realizes the importance of repayment. They
are pleased to participate in any meeting and discussion with respect to the loan, answer any
question raised by the Appraisal Group and cooperate in its work by expressing the
willingness to input property or any other things for the Project if necessary.
(2) The degree of involvement may be affected by age, literacy, ideology, experience,
knowledge, household income, state of operation, etc. Peasants well possessing such factors.
are more active to borrow more fuids for their already planned long-term programs of
economic development, which shows a higher durability and degree of involvement among
these peasants and herdsmen. On the contrary, those without or partially with such factors
are either afraid or unwilling to borrow much for fear of insolvencv, indicating a lower
activity and durability of participation.
2.2 Involvement Degree of Disadvantaged (;roups
(1) Among disadvantaged groups, except for those-utterly destitute, residents at the locations of
investigation showed no significant difference in nationality or religious faith as to the
behavior of participation.
(2) At Sunan County, herdsmen hope to develop double-purpose sheep for both fleece and
mutton, peasant advocate developing mutton sheep, especially hybrid varieties between
small-tailed cold-resistant sheep and high-moumtain fine-wool sheep or native sheep in
Gansu, which may breed and grow fast. Tibetan herdsmen at Tianzhu County desire to
develop white yaks, fluffy goats and double-purpose sheep, while the Hui people at Kangle
County favor cattle and sheep fatting.
(3) The poor are low in the degree of involvement mostly with common causes, such as low
wisdom, less grassland or tilled land, many children, few labors, family member suffering
from diseases, lack of funds or appropriate projects, being illiterate and unskillful. These
factors are reciprocally causal each other to lead the poor to a circumstance unable to lift
themselves out of poverty. Poverty gives rise to a desire for change, which is the desire in
the nmind of everyone poor, but they are too weak to break away from poverty relying only
upon the strength of a family even though provided with a loan. Since they are fully aware
of this, it is impossible for them to be very high in degree of involvement or durability.
Provided, however, that some poor families could borrow the loan in a united manner in the
greater hope of success, their zest and persistency of participation mnay be enhanced.



2.3 Involvement Degree of Village-level Organizations
At the villages investigated, every villagers' conmnittee represented a very good level of
involvement by offering zealous support to the Appraisal Group, including participating in the
spot survey of the Appraisal Group, organizing villagers to participate actively, being cooperative
in investigation, drawing maps, making introductions, organizing discussions and calculating
basic data for the Group.
2.4 Involvement Degree of County (Municipal), Township (Town) Governments
(1) Special organizations have been set up at the affected counties/cities each answered for by a
major county (city) leader. In fact, leading groups at most counties (cities) are very
concerned about the Project by active coordination and communication. Governments at the
participant townships (towns) play an irnportant role in conmmunicating up and down,
helping World Bank and the Provincial Government establish the Project and assisting the
Appraisal Group, so as to prepare for the Project implementation. However, competent
authorities at very few participant counties, such as the Agricultural Bureau of Yongchang
County, failed to cooperate the Appraisal Group in work very well and seemed very
unwilling to take part in the appraisal wok without giving a prior notice to township and
town governments concerned when informed thereof, briefing the Group about the Project
planning at relevant counties very seriously, nor cooperating necessarily on the forum held
by organizations under the Appraisal Group with county authorities concerned. Such
behaviors in participation have caused many adverse effects on the work conducted by the
Appraisal Group. Some township governments were less participative, where public servants
failed to provide pertinent data for the precinct thereunder timely and accurately, such as
Shuiyuan Town under Yongchang County, Minglu Township under Kangle County, etc.



3. Lending Organizations Available to Beneficiaries
3.1 Consanguinity Based Organizations-Family
The implementation of the Integrated Sheep Development Project focuses on an organizational
chain, where family serves as the terminal link by borrowing, utilizing funds, creating values and
repaying. In the unit of family, peasants and herdsmen are connected to secondary organizations,
which, in the unit of itself each, combine with other units of the like and get further connected to
tertiary organizations, and so on so forth until the chain is extended to World Bank. Family is
both the end point and start point of this chain, because a sum of fund is firstly distributed down
this chain originally from World Bank, then the interest and principal will be transmitted up also
along this organizational chain finally to World Bank.
3.2 Geographic Relationship Based Organizations
(1) Villagers' committee: organization of an administrative village (composed of a few natural
villages) consisting of 4-5 natives, mainly responsible the management of major events of
the whole village, e.g., fulfilling any task assigned by the township/town (family planning,
collecting public grains, profit deductions and reserving, etc.); settling civil disputes in the
village; allocating resources therein; negotiating and commnunicating with governmental
agencies on behalf of villagers.
(2) Other village organizations: Party branches, Youth League branches and militia battalions
are dedicated to the administration on Party and political major events, organizing youthful
activities, mnaintaining the public security in the village; social management councils are
village-level economically intermediary organs operated by peasants and herdsmen that
coordinate the cooperation between peasants and companies under the operating pattern of
"company + peasant family". Women's federations are village-level organizations on behalf
of women under the Women's Federation of China and in connection with all levels of like
organizations in work coaching with a view to mobilize and organize rural women groups to
develop. The women's federations at the locations of investigation are very experienced in
organizing women to participate in various rural support-the-poor projects for many times,
especially women-oriented small grant projects, so they are competent for such activities
under this Project. In addition, there are some other dedicated mass organizations, including
family planning associations, villape grassland management teams in pastoral areas, civil
mediation committees and public securitv comrnissions, which serve as capable assistants
for the villagers' committee. These mass organizations commonly feature a greater part of
staff shared with other organizations, who are elitists in the village with higher prestige and
promise of success. Villagers' teams are organizations in natural villages and also secondary
ones dependent to villagers' commrittees with the function to manage daily affairs of the
village. Schools, primnary schools mainly, also including junior high school at villages with
bazaars, have the primary function to train and educate children.
(3) Branches down passed from functional departments of the county government to townships
/towns and further stretching to villages
Grassland administrative stations, mainly in charge of the guardianship on local grasslands,
publicizing the Grassland Law and managerial,, maintenance techniques of grasslands, also
assisting herdsmen in harnessing the problem of grassland deterioration; pastoral veterinary



stations, offering comnpensated services on epidemic prevention and treatment of livestock,
conducting periodic monitoring on epidemic situations; agrotechnical stations, dealing with
agrotechnical services; village breeding stations, providing livestock breed improvement
and breeding services to villagers; and rural credit cooperatives, granting short-term
small-sum agricultural and pastoral loans to peasants and herdsmen, also absorbing their
deposits.
(4) Interrelationships among Organizations
Among various organizations, consanguinity based and geographic relationship based ones
are the closest, which coexist in a same environment and interpenetrate each other. When
the Project is executed at this level, the sphere of functionality becomes rather ambiguous
between the two types of organizations. Among geographic relationship based organizations,
villagers' committees are the crucial medium to connect grassroots govermments with
peasants, through which it is very easy to get aware of the interaction between peasants and
the government, as well as the basics and trends of the rural society, economy and people's
life. Branches stationed at villages dispatched by higher authorities are channels extending
downward, very distinct from the former two types of organizations in terms of relationship
of administrative subordination, authorities and responsibilities.
3.3 Significance of Existing Organizations to Beneficiaries
(1) Having undergone 52 years' organizational construction, a sophisticated, effectively acting
organizational network is available in rural areas. The Integrated Sheep Development Project
mnay avail itself of some existing organizations without the necessity to completely set up its
own new ones.
(2) It's very costly to set up and run new organizations: (1) the existence of old ones shows their
continued ability to play. To replace them with new ones might cause unnecessary conflicts
in functionality, then new ones have to spare some effort to cope with disputes before being
able to rationalize their interrelations; (2) it would take some time for a new organization to
debug its organizational structure and train its staff; (3) a new organization, for a long period,
may not necessarily get any support from other counterparts in the social enviromnent; and
(4) in the view of most peasants and herdsmen, even if new organizations-associations of
herdsmen-are set up, they should be based on village cadres mainly, because they can not
function without the support and cooperation of villagers' committees or human resources of
existing organizations.



II.Beneficiary Participation Program
1. Set up Associations of Herdsmen
An association of herdsmen (abbreviated as 'AH') is an organization joined and managed by
peasants and herdsmen engaged in animal production themselves under the government's
support in a village. An AH is long-standing and may initiate activities on an irregular basis.
When the Project is closed, AHs will remain as a non-governmental econornic organization.
However, any functional and organizational conflict must be avoid between an AH and the
local township and village government.
Functions of AH:
(1) To ensure that the power of participation of peasants and herdsmen can be exerted and
embodied by supervising and controlling the granting and use of village-level loans.
(2) To convene and help organize technical training and services related to stockbreeding in
the village, e.g., asking an exemplary villager to conduct training, convening members
of the AN to attend technical training and advisory activities organized governmentally,
organizing villagers to utilize stud rams on hand or buying the same through funding,
offering breeding services at reasonable charges, which may both benefit villagers and
give a continuous play of the AH's functions.
(3) Providing marketing services, such as offering market information, organizing group
selling, etc.
(4) Grassland management. To assist the villagers' commnittee or grassland regulatory body
in supervising the amount of livestock on hand (there are generally definite criteria for
the stock-carrying capacity of grassland everywhere) at'affected villages with natural
grasslands, for those exceeding the criteria, either persuade them to feed in a pen or sell;
to supervise the government or grassroots management organizations on the utilization
and management of grasslands, and to appeal via an appropriate channel if problematic;
to stop whatever act to seize grassland resources by any outsider in conjunction with the
militia or joint-defense personnel in the village. Grassland managerial departments (the
county/township grassland station) shall specially assign someone to assist the AH by
teaching the knowledge on laws, grassland protection and improvement, establishing a
legal channel for compliant, coordinating grassroots village organizations with the AH.
.(5) To make suggestions to competent governmental authorities on protection of grassland,
construction of forage fields, management of market, disease prevention and curing for
livestock and other issues with relation to the development of stockbreeding.
(6) To elect or dismiss a member of the Project executing team. When a proposal is tabled
by 10 or more members in an AH jointly to dismiss an incompetent member of the team,
it shall be referred to the general meeting of A- for discussion, the member in question
shall be dismissed upon a resolution passed by a simple majority of the Al members.
Setup of AH:
Step 1: An affected county shall select 3 villages thereunder where the animal production
is relatively developed and grassroots organizations are more active for the experiment work
of an AH.



Step 2: At the experimental villages, the county Project working team shall hold a village
duly convened by village leaders to discuss the necessity to found an AH, its fimction and
possible benefits to the animal production.
Step 3: After a preparatory period of 1-2 weeks, the articles of association of the AH shall
be discussed fonnally, including its mission, role and target, the rights and obligations of a
member, the formalities for entry into the AH, its relationship with the villagers' commrittee,
then its leaders shall be elected.
Step 4: Delegates from the county/township Project offices and competent authorities shall
summarize the experiences and lessons during the foundation of the AH at the experimental
villages for the purpose of popularization. Whoever willing to set up an AH voluntarily may,
with the consent of competent authorities, organize by themselves.



2. Suggestions to Ensure Beneficiaries' Full Participation
During the course of Project design and irnplementation, with a view to guarantee all types of
Project beneficiaries can be timely informed of the Project and have an equal opportunity to
propose their own suggestions for pertinent problems, also to enable the Project management
organizations to be well informed of dynamics of implementation and make scientific decisions
based on practical situations, Project management organizations at all levels may arrange their
work with reference to the following suggestions:
1.1 Project working teams: Project implementing teams shall be set up at the township/ town
level consisting of village representatives (1-2, elected by each administrative village),
township government delegates, professionals at rural credit cooperatives, personnel from
township/town stockbreeding stations, grassland management stations and county Project
offices, amouniting to some 20-30 persons. The team shall held a meeting quarterly to
discuss any problem with the Project implementation.
1.2 Process of Project decision-mnarking: It is suggested county Project offices and township
imnplementing teams propose a preliminary plan, which is communicated to meetings of
administrative villages by village representatives for villagers to widely discuss and give
provide and feedback on revision. These suggestions are finally fed back to the Project
administrative authorities, which will come to a final decision balancing the interests of
parties concerned based on full consideration.
1.3 Loan granting: Peasants and herdsmen may enter into a debtor-creditor relationship with
World Bank through loan implementing teams. It is suggested that loan implementing teams
set up at the township/town level on the basis of rural credit cooperatives to collect
problems and peasants' suggestions arising from the Project and feed them back to World
Bank. At the same time, such teams shall also be responsible evaluating and determining the
prospective borrowers and line of credit at each village.
1.4 About information: Project management organizations shall provide charge-free and public
information to peasants at the affected areas on a regular or irregular basis covering such
items as loan interest, term, loan management and repayment, market quotations of animal
products, applications of new technologies on stockbreeding, etc. Moreover, the activity
regulations and dynamics of those organizations set up as required for this Project, such as
associations of peasants and herdsmen, should also be released to peasants publicly and
freely via many channels, such as posting a notice at an administrative village, broadcasting
at a bazaar or holding a village meeting, so that all the beneficiaries may capture relevant
messages and give feedback therefor.
1.5 About monitoring: Project monitoring and participative rural appraisals shall be employed
to widely collect suggestions from beneficiaries to facilitate their commnunication with the
Project management organizations, which will then make more practical amendments based
on timely mastery of Project dynamics.
1.6 About women's practical needs of benefit: It should be prescribed that women account for a
proportion of some 30% inside all levels of organizations for Project management and
implementation, and a one-vote veto system shall apply to any scheme in breach of the
sexual equality. Furthermore, all levels of women's federations shall be fully taken
advantage to guarantee women's title to equal participation and increase their ability of
participation.



1.7 About the practical benefits of minorities: Since minorities mostly inhabit the affected areas
in a centralized manner, where the State Law of National Autonomy. applies fundamentally
at the county, township and village levels and the status of national autonomy is well
established, thereby Project management at these levels shall be pursuant to this law without
any special design. For minorities living in a scattered way, favorable measures may be
taken with reference to existing ethnic policies of the government During the Project
implementation, cultures and customs of minorities should be fully respected, avoiding any
act roughly severing the synchronous development between their economy and culture. In
practice, this may be coordinated or controlled by existing regulatory agencies of
minorities-minority commnittees-to realize a properly sequential development of national
economy.



3. Beneficiary Participation During Project Implementation
3.1 Operations of Small-sum Loan
Since the Project is large in coverage and situations vary from place to place, petty loans
oriented to peasants and herdsmen individually will be granted in the unit of county with the
operating procedures tailored to each county.
Peasants and herdsmen at the affected areas are very eager for such loans but have varying
expectations to the term of loan due to the difference in household circumstance, ability and
demand. Within the allowable term of loan, individuals are encouraged to decide on the term
as their own demands may be under a flexible mechanism. Moreover, when the principal and
interest are recovered, the loan may be granted to others to increase the number of turnover
of funds and help more people.
Step 1: During the course of Project design, the Project executing team shall hold village
meetings (at least once) and small scale seminars (at least twice) in the unit of village, visit
delegates (at least 5) of authoritative persons and disadvantaged groups (women, the poor,
etc.) in the village to take counsel with villagers extensively on the limit and term of credit,
procedure of application, channel of granting (the course that the loan is passed to peasants
and herdsmen from World Bank), intent to use, mode of repayment, etc., and feed them back
to the township Project workstation, where suggestions from villages shall be summarized
and submitted to the county Project working team for design. When the design gets accepted
by the county Project office, it shall be filed to the Project Office of the Autonomous Region
for approval.
Step 2: Full publicity shall be given before the loan is granted through expedite channels
of information, such as TV, broadcast, conference, issue of "bulletin of Project information",
so that every peasant and herdsman will be fully aware of the objective, interest rate, term,
amount, procedure of application of the loan. However, it should also be communicated that
they are at the risk of paying the principal and interest on time.
Step 3: Every loan applicant shall submit a borrowing proposal detailing his development
plan, the feasibility and necessity of which shall be discussed among villagers in a villagers'
team (this is also an opportunity for villagers to learn from each other and participate in the
Project). Finally, it's up to the Project team to determine the list of borrowers and their sums,
and to further discuss the practicability of development of those probably having difficulty
in repaying and settle on a detailed plan. The names, line and term of credit of all borrowers
will be registered for submission to the county Project office.
Step 4: The loan shall be directly granted to borrowers with the organization of the county
Project working team, which may retain an intermediary agency, for supervision thereon or a
rural credit cooperative for granting. After that, a loan inspection team shall be composed of
delegates of the county Project office, loan granter and local peasants. The team shall check
whether the loan fund is in place by spot-checking a certain number of borrowers in different
villages and then report the results to World Bank.
Step 5: In every January-February within the Project period, the village Project executing
team shall preside meetings of villagers' teams, on which borrowers shall explain how is the
loan being utilized, benefits therefrom, experiences and lessons for other villagers to discuss.
Then outstanding borrowers shall be elected as exemplars for publicity.



A considerable number of affected communities are cross-inhabited by many nationalities,
which is evident in North Xinjiang. Although an equal and united inter-national relationship
is the social mainstream, nationalities with a smaller population may be disadvantaged due
to the relative shortage of social resources, for whom institutional measures are necessary to
ensure their equal opportunity.
At villages with a simpler composition of nationalities, it is practical to allocate the loan in
proportion to the number of families of each nationality, where the Project team shall decide
on the final list of borrowers according to villagers' appraisal of applicants.
At villages with a relatively complex composition of and great population disparity among
nationalities, a certain amount of loan may be set aside for eligible borrowers belonging to
the ethnic groups with a smaller population.
3.2 Training
The training shall cover modem stockbreeding technology and marketing knowledge.
Peasants and herdsmen at the affected areas are low in literacy, relatively short of scientific
knowledge on animal production. Under the condition barely enough for subsistence, most
of them dare not take the risk of trying new breeds and would rather deal with the traditional-
aspects in animal production steadily. Furthermore, the lack of marketing knowledge among
producers narrows the sales coverage of their products, the production derails with channels
of distribution, which are all important factors restricting the benefit maximization under the
Project. Consequently, it will a crucial aspect thereunder to strengthen the training on in this
regard and improve and quality of human resources.
The Project offices shall provide necessary appropriations in support of such training.
The training may be multiform:
Method 1:   List the training in the technological training programs of all levels of councils
for science and technology, so that existing resources may be taken advantage of to conduct
training with relation to the Project.
Method 2:   Found a technical support organization.
The Project Office of the Autonomous Region shall retain some stockbreeding experts and
organize them into an association of technical support to hold seminars on TV, write popular
articles, news letters and press releases (multilingual) on scientific stockbreeding, or conduct
technical publicity and demonstration at affected counties, townships on an irregular basis.
Local zootechnicians and veterinarians in an affected county shall conduct technical training
at agricultural and pastoral areas as a technical support team.
Step 1: Based on an full understanding of the Project design, experts and technicians shall
conduct training with focus on techniques suitable to the local stockbreeding. At the same
time, they must have received the participative training with a view to increase the sense of
participation and initiative of learning of peasants or herdsmen being trained and solve their
practical challenges in production. Dunrng training, experts should also understand villagers'
requirements on content and form of technical training comprehensively and feed them back
to the association of technical support, so as to optimize the training.
Step 2: Such training shall be conducted in slack seasons (winter). Several days before the



commencement of training courses, experts shall inform villagers of the technical title of the
planned training and tell them to prepare their problems with production for discussion on
the seminar through the township radio station and villagers' committee.
Step 3: Organize training courses of different types:
(1) Ordinary training for villagers, to popularize basic techniques and knowledge by
explaining;
(2) Advanced training, mainly for specialized major cultivators with certain skills and
experiences of stockbreeding in the form of forum, where experts shall exchange
with trainees.
The technical training shall give special consideration to disadvantaged groups (women,
the poor, minorities with a smaller population, the elderly engaged in production, etc.).
Since they are less confident of their personal capability and knowledge with a weaker
initiative, the villagers' committee and Project working team shall try best to mobilize
them in participating the training courses.
Method 3: Disseminate technological knowledge by means of mass media.
Provide charge-free or low-cost booklets (mainly in Uigur, Kazakh, Mongolian and Chinese)
on the Project and techniques of stockbreeding to grassroots cadres, peasants and herdsmen
at the affected areas. The county TV station organize more intelligible programs on popular
sciences, etc.
Method 4:   Set breeding exemplars of each family.
At affected villages, under the organization of the Project executing team, 2-4 exemplars
who are experienced and skilled in stockbreeding, making money by their own labor, glad to
help others and willing to participate in the Project shall be elected by the AH for villagers to
follow. A certain support shall be offered thereto in relation to loan granting and livestock
shed construction. The annual appraisal of exemplars' role of demonstration shall be taken
charge of by the village Project working team and' conducted by the AH. Any exemplar who
has not played its role of demonstration shall be disqualified and replaced with a new one.
3.3 Grassland Protection
Currently, the prevalent deterioration of natural grasslands has drawn the attention from the
government and all circles of the society. Many factors account for this, of which, however,
the human factor matters most. For example, partial outside groups or units snatch resources
of minerals and medicinal materials on grasslands, or farm thereon, which are not prevented
by some shortsighted local governments or grassroots organizations. The absence of rational
planning and development has caused the ecological maladjustment and tight water resource.
The excess of livestock of peasants and herdsmen on hand overloads grassland and render it
irreclaimable. It's advised to involve peasants and herdsmen--direct users and beneficiaries
of grassland-in the grassland management, i.e., preventing any forced damage by outsiders,
supervising on the behavior of the government or grassroots organs, controlling the grazing
load.
Method 1:   Set up an AI to build the sense of self-management of peasants and herdsmen
as aforesaid.



Method 2:   The government or the AH shall organize compensated reciprocity at pastoral
and agricultural areas, where agricultural areas niay provide crop stalk to pastoral areas and
the latter may provide fattened sheep to the former. In this way, the load on grassland will be
mitigated through the participation of peasants and herdsmen.
Method 3:   Teach knowledge on grassland protection and improvement for vast peasants
and herdsmen, such as how to construct artificially sown pastures, grow quality forage grass,
control the amount of livestock on hand, utilize crop stalk and to reduce the loan of livestock
on grassland.
3.4 Enhance Women's Sense of Participation
Women at the affected areas have all shown a great interest in the Project and are eager for
participation, so as to alter the household financial status. However, women shall participate
as neither an individual or a group but a member of family, an assistant of husband or father,
because they are apparently disadvantaged as to the right to dispose household loans, design
of family plans and affairs of the village. At the same time, they are partially entitled to the
decision-making of the family as the mainstay in the household production and labor, which
appears as their factual participation in the Project. To enhance their sense of participation
and offer them greater chance of participation will be advantageous to not only the increase
of their status but also the implementation of the Project.
Method 1:   To increase women's right to make decision on household loans and enhance
their sense of responsibility in using such loans. If necessary, some technical measures shall
be taken to guarantee their rights, e.g., borrowing upon the negotiation and joint signature of
a couple, involving all key herders of a family in training, etc.
Method 2:   The loan shall granted in consideration of single-parent families where women
act as householders. Although small in quantity, such families generally lead a harder life, to
which equal opportunities of lending shall be provided.
Method 3:   The technical training must involve women at a percentage greater than 30%,
giving consideration to the characteristics of labor division between genders, technical and
mental characteristics of women, as well as their acceptability of knowledge. Such training
may be participative, aiming to increase women's interest of learning and the practicability
of techniques. It is preferred that the training for minority women be conducted by a woman
technician of the same nationality or proficient in the language thereof.



4. Supervision and Evaluation
Establish three independent but closely cooperative supervisory mechanisms,
including that by the government of the affected area (county, township and
village committees); that under a supervisory mechanism (village Project
executing team, AH, etc. ) established by peasants and herdsmen affected; and
that by supervisors assigned by World Bank. The Xinjiang Regional Project Office
and county Project offices shall be responsible for the coordination among the
3 mechanisms and organization of supervisory activities.
The expert assessment organized by World Bank'shall be provisional, where the expert panel
shall involve a considerable proportion of minority experts.
Peasants and herdsmen's assessment shall be continuous, whose opinions of assessment will
be reflected in the following way: AH-1village Project executing team-4township Project
workstation-county Project office, or villager committee-)township govemment-county
government, or village veterinarian-township veterinary/grassland/stockbreeding station4
county stockbreeding bulreau. World Bank and the Project office highly value the results of
folk assessment.
The assessment results shall be released in Chinese and languages of major local minorities.
Establish a channel of compliant for beneficiaries so that their ideas and suggestions may be
reflected and adopted. County and township Project offices shall formulate the measures for
disposal of such complaints, stipulating the handling time and procedures.
Approach 1: Complain through the existing organizational system, such as AH-1village
Project executing team4township Project workstation4county Project office, or villagers'
committee4township government4county government, or village veterinarian4township
veterinary/grasslandlstockbreeding station-) county stockbreeding bureau.
Approach 2: Issue a "complaint and suggestion table for Project implementation" to village
Project executing teams for villagers to lodge complaints in a timely fashion.



5. List of Participative Activities
Subproject                            Participative Activities
Establishing associations of herdsmen and formulating the regulations thereof
Grassland      Formulating the management programs for local pasture resources
management     Constructing grassland fencing, sown pastures and water facilities
and            Discussion about grassland deterioration, formulating harnessing plans therefor
improvement    Technical training on technical grassland management and construction of sown
pastures, special training dedicated for women
Formulating the package credit program by associations of herdsmen
Stockbreeding  Training of package program on livestock production
production     Women's participation in training of package program on livestock production
system (sheep, Discussing the selection of animal strains for improvement
cow, beef      Wool production, shearing and processing
cattle, goat)  Technical training and popularization about mutton production
Design of regulations for associations of herdsmen and marketing teams
Marketing of   Formulating programs to improve the market competitiveness of wool and mutton
stockbreeding  Establishment of product quality standards
products       Discussing and formulating a communication mechanism of market information to
peasants and herdsmen
Technical training on participative appraisal (by managerial staff and assessors at
Project offices)
Discussion of county-level Project planning (by depts. concerned at affected counties)
Project        I"' round of participative social appraisal to understand the demand of participation
among villagers and rural cadres
moanagement,   Training for the 2"n round of social appraisal (by managerial staff and assessors at
monitoring and provincial and county-level project offices)
evaluation     The panel of social appraisal experts conducting the 2nd round of quick PRA
The panel of social appraisal -experts conducting the midterm quick PRA
Creation of list and program of participative activities
IProject monitoring



Period  Activity      Objective     Organizer    Participant     Requirements       Funding
c   Set up      Fully briefing    I) Project  1) Local mass 1) Media uses languages Project
i   channels for beneficiaries of the office  media        of major local minorities management
o information  Project         2) County,  2) Leaders,  2) Communicated by all
c   sharing                     own, village rural      levels of leaders through
c  .      leaders     zootechnicians irregular meetings
Draft, issue                 Project office All levels of  1) An intelligible manual Project
bulletin on                              Project offices, 2) Standard translation of management
Project                                  social        Uigur/Kazakh/Mongolian
information                              assessment    I)Issued as per lingual
experts        distribution (see annex)
Set up county Plan and supervise Regional  County     1) 1-2 women
Project     Project execution,  Project office leaders, Project 2) Ratio of minority
working team supervise loans to          offices,     members close to the
breed sheep,                 technicians, 7 population ratio of
veterinary,                  persons in total minorities in the county
grassland stations
Set up      Township Project  County     1) township  I) Include a certain part
f    township    execution and loan Project   cadres or    of women and minorities
o    Project     allocation to each  working team technicians  2) Village delegates not
.   workstation  village                     2) Villager  less than 600/o
delegates    3) One full-time, others
part-time
c   Set up AH   Grant loan to    County       Villagers    1) Select 3 villages for  Project
0                villagers, elect and Project office,      experiment            management
dismiss members of Project                 2) Based on full
executing team,  working team              discussion of villagers
help organize                              3) Approved by the
technical training,                        govemment
marketing service,
,grassland control              .
Set up village Responsible for  County   Members of    1) 6 members (village  Project
executing   loan to individual  Project office AH     cadres, delegate of PO  management
team        peasants                                  and villagers)
2) 22 women members.
3) Delegates of all
nationalities involved
Granting    As fair and rational Village  All villagers  1) Take full counsel with Loan
personal loan as possible with  executing             villagers; 2) villagers
_u >repayment ensured team                              apply individually; 3)
grant to borrowers
directly; 4) show concem
to small minorities
Training    On modem         Technical   Beneficiaries  I) In languages      Applied
zootechny and     support team            intelligible to locals  research and
marketing        County      Village       2) General training for  training
knowledge, increase scientific  delegates  villagers, participative
the skillfulness and council              training for major
benefits of peasants Village  Exemplar     cultivators
and herdsmen      executing                3) Involve disadvantaged
c} _________  _________________  team                 groups
Collect and                  All levels of Experienced  Put collected knowledge Ditto
compile local                Project office herdsmen and into tiaining
knowledge                    and village  professionals
.____ _  _Project teams



6. Schedule for Beneficiary Participation
Abbreviations:
VC       Villagers' Committee
WF       Women's Federation
VM       Village Meeting
MGGM     Meeting of group of grassland managers
GGM      Group of grassland managers
PO       Project office
PPO      Provincial Project office
CPO      County Project office
TPO      Township Project office
IGMT     Institutiori for grassland management techniques
MTG      Meeting of technical group
GMS      Grassland management station
AH       Association of herdsmen
MANH     Meeting of association of herdsmen
AG       Appraisal group
TG       Township government
SB       Stockbreeding bureau
SS       Stockbreeding station
AT       Appraisal team
TTQC     Technical team of quality certification
Sub-pro   Project activities  Participative activities  Parties  Manner of  Org. In  Duration of
ject                                            concerned    counsel     charge      activity
Establishing      * Staffing for team of  0 All Project * VM    0 VC       Long term
associations of    managers under       participants,  * MGGM   * PO
herdsmen and       association          women
formulating the   * Formulating         * VC
regulations thereof  regulations for team  * WF
e       Formulating the  * Finalizing fencing  * PO         0 MTG      * PO        Project
management         construction program  0 IGMT      * VM       0 GMS      activity
programs for local * Finalizing of sown  0 GGM       0 MGGM                period
.      pasture resources  pasture planning
E      pasture resource    Financial budgeting
CZ     Constructing      * Materials budgeting  0 PO        0 MTG      0 GGM       Project
eS5    grassland fencing,  and purchasing      0 GMS        0 VM                   construction
2      sown pastures and  * Construction of    0 GGM        0 MGGM                 period
on     water facilities   fencing project
C                        0 Construction of sown
E                         pasture
_______             *Project acceptance
Discussion about  0 Defining scheme for  0 PO        * VM       * PO       Project
grassland          dryness harnessing   0 GGM        0 MGGM     0 GGM      construction
deterioration,    0 Defining scheme for  0 GMS                             period
formulating        control of rat and pest
harnessing plans   damage
therefor          0 Defining scheme for
control of poisonous
weeds



Technical training  * Training on the   * PO         * MTG      *PO         Repayment
on technical       Grassland Law        * GGM        * VM       * GGM       period
grassland         * Training on         * GMS        0 MGGM     0 GMS
management and     participative rural
construction of   appraisal
sown pastures,    0 Compiling teaching
special training  materials and courses
dedicated for     oriented to peasants
women              and herdsmen
* Compiling teaching
materials and courses
oriented to women
Formulating the   * Discussing credit   * AH         * MTG       * AH      After
package credit   programs for           * WF         * VM                  completion
program by        construction of grassland          0 AH
associations of  and sown pastures                    meeting
herdsmen          * Formulating detailed
rules for credit
agreement
Training of package * Training on feeding  * SB       * MTG      * AH       Long term
program on         techniques (by        0 SS         0 Joint    * SS
livestock          peasants/herdsmen)    * AH         meeting of
production         * Formulating of      * WF         SS and AH
comprehensive animal
health-care program (by
technical team)
* Livestock bam
reconstruction projects
(by peasants and
herdsmen)
Discussing the    * Formulating plan    * TG         * MTG       * VC      Execution
selection of animal  about local livestock  * VC     0 VM        * TG      period of
strains for        breed and quality    * Villagers              0 WF      breed
E       improvement       resources            *0 Women                            improving
S, Application of new  * County SS
animal breeds
Wool production,  0 Technical conditions  0 PO       * MTG       * PO      Construction
shearing and      to set up or improve a  * VC       * VM        * vC      period
2      processing        shearing station       * Technical
0.                       0 Construction and     personnel at
re-construction of basic  shearing
facilities for wool    stations
D                         production             * Villagers
oTraining on new       * Women
techniques for wool
production
* Publicizing
applications of new
shearing techniques to
peasants/herdsmen
Technical training  * Establishing fatting  0 TG      * MTG      0 TG       Long term
and popularization  system by peasants   o VC        * VM        * VC
about mutton      * Laying strategy to   o Villagers             * WF
production         maximize revenue      S Women
from mutton          o SS
production and its
popularization plan
* Mutton production
popularizing activities  I



Design of         * Team staffing       * County,    0 PO        0 County Longterm
regulations for   * Detailing regulations  township   meeting    SB or PO
associations of    for team activity     livestock   * VM
herdsmen and                             regulatory
marketing teams                          agencies
* VC
* Villagers
* Women
* Business
admin.
Formulating       * Fixing "separate    * PPO        * MTG      * PPO      Long term
programs to       sales" pattern accepted  * CPO,    * VM
improve the market by peasants, herdsmen  TPO
competitiveness of  and operators and   * VC
wool and mutton    giving publicity     * Villagers
* Constructing storage  0 Traders
network              * AH
* Technical training on
wool and livestock
X-o                       trading
E                         * Laying program and
co                        detailed rules of
agreement for wool
.E_______________  and livestock traders
Establishment of  * Enacting product    0 PO         * MTG       * PO      Execution
product quality    quality standards &  * TTQC       * VM       * TTQC     period
standards          hierarchical system  * AH
* Providing materials
on quality standards to
wool and mutton
traders, peasants and
herdsmen
Discussing and    * Formulating legal   * PPO        * MTG      * PO       Execution
formulating a      and commercial       0 CPO         on legal  * Legal    period
communication      regulations for      * Breeding    and        and
mechanism of       information providers  station     technical  technical
market information  of animal product   * VC          advice     advisory
to peasants and    market               * Villagers  0 VM        group
herdsmen          * Discussing and                               0 VC
establishing market
information collecting,
analyzing and
spreading system.
Technical training  * Training of appraisal * Social  * Seminar  * AG      Training
on participative   methods               appraisal   * Focus     * PO      period
appraisal (by                            experts      group
managerial staff                        0 PO
and assessors at                         managerial
0
E       Project offices)                         staff
* AG
E X                                              members
OD0 >   Discussion of     * Understanding       * AT         * Forum    * AT       Appraisal
coa    county-level        general situations of  members               S CPO      period
E       Project planning   affected counties    0 Members
(by departments                          of CPO and
concerned at the                         functional
XL      affected counties)                       depts.
concerned



1' round of PRA to * Participative social  0 AT     * Forum     0 AT      Appraisal
understand the     appraisal             members    * Focus               period
participation                           0 Villagers  group
demand of villagers                                  * DTD
and rural cadres                                     interview
Training for the 2nd  0 Theoretical and  0 Social   * Seminar   * AG      Training
round of PRA (by   methodological        appraisal  * Forum     0 PO      period
managerial staff  training on            experts    * Focus
and assessors at   participative social  * PO       group
provincial and     appraisal            managerial  0 Simulation
county-level                            staff
project offices)                        0 AG
members
The panel of social * Understanding     0 AT         0 Forum    0 AT      Appraisal
appraisal experts  situations of affected  * Project  0 Focus             period
conducting the 2nd  counties in depth   managerial   group
round of quick    * Quick PRA           staff       * DTD
PRA                                     * Villagers  interview
The panel of social * Understanding     * AT        * Forum     * AT      Once every
appraisal experts  situations of affected  0 Project  0 Focus             2-3 years
conducting the     counties in depth    managerial   group                since 2nd year
midterm quick     0 Quick PRA           staff       * DTD                 after Project
PRA                                     * Villagers  interview            startup
Creation of list and  * Activity plan for  * AG     * Forum     0 AG      Appraisal
program of         Project organizations  * PO      * Focus     0 PO      period
participative      and beneficiary      * Villagers  group
activities         involved projects
Project monitoring  * Establishing      0 AG        * MTG       * AG      Project
interactive network  0 PO         * Forum    0 PO      period
between AT and       0 Villagers .    VM     * Entities
affected counties,                            with
townships, villages                          relation to
_________________________________________________                     P roject



