Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4718 CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Gansu and Xinjiang Pastoral Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Dated November 6, 2003 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4718 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 2003, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of Parts A.2, B.4, D and E of the 
Project to be carried out in the GEF-assisted Project Counties (as defined in GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement), the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in 
accordance with Resolution No. 94-2 of the Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, 
establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and by an agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF (the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equal to ten million five hundred thousand Dollars ($10,500,000) (the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant);  
(C) 
the Project will be carried out by Gansu Province (Gansu) and Xinjiang –
Uyghur Autonomous Region (Xinjiang) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Gansu and Xinjiang, as set forth in 
this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Gansu and 
Xinjiang (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiaries Participation Sub-Manuals” means the Gansu 
Beneficiaries Participation Sub-Manual dated July 17, 2003, adopted by Gansu and the 
Xinjiang Beneficiaries Participation Sub-Manual dated July 17, 2003, adopted by 
Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, each 
manual identifying the beneficiary groups and types of activities to be undertaken by said 
beneficiaries, and setting out the process and forum for meaningful
 
consultation with and 
informed participation of said beneficiaries; and a “Beneficiaries Participation Sub-
manual” means either of said sub-manuals. 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Dam Safety Review Guidelines” means the Dam Safety Review 
Guidelines dated July 17, 2003, referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which sets out the procedure for reviewing the safety of dams that may be 
included in the Project and the criteria for application of said guidelines.  
(d) 
“Environmental Management and Monitoring Plans” and “EMMPs” 
mean: (i) the Gansu Environmental Management Plan dated July 17, 2003, adopted by 
Gansu, and (ii) the Xinjiang Environmental Management Plan, dated July 17, 2003, 
adopted by Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, in each case setting out the environmental protection measures in respect of 
Gansu and Xinjiang’s Respective Parts of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and “Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan” and “EMMP” mean either of said plans. 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“Gansu” means the Borrower’s Gansu Province, and any successor 
thereto. 
(g) 
“Gansu Special Account” means the account referred to in Section    
 2.02 (b)(i) of this Agreement. 
(h) 
“Multi-Ethnic Groups Development Strategies” means: (i) the Gansu 
Multi-Ethnic Groups Development Strategy, dated July 17, 2003, adopted by Gansu, and 
(ii) the Xinjiang Multi Ethnic Groups Development Strategy, dated July 17, 2003, 
adopted by Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, in each case setting forth the strategy and activities incorporated into Gansu 
and Xinjiang’s Respective Parts of the Project, to ensure: (i) meaningful consultation 
with and informed participation of minority nationality communities in the design and 
implementation of Project activities in locations in which such communities reside, 
(ii) Project benefits which are socially and culturally acceptable to such communities, and 
(iii) reduction, mitigation and off-setting of potential adverse impacts on such 
communities, as said strategies may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank; and a “Multi Ethnic Development Strategy” means either of said strategies. 
(i) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Gansu 
and Xinjiang of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(j) 
“Project Counties” means, collectively, those counties, districts and 
county-level cities within Gansu and Xinjiang which are carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof; and a “Project County” means any of the Project Counties.   
(k) 
“Project Implementation Manuals” means, collectively: (i) the Gansu 
Project Implementation Manual dated July 17, 2003, including sub-manuals, prepared by 
Gansu, and (ii) the Xinjiang Project Implementation Manual, dated July 17, 2003, 
including sub-manuals, prepared by Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 
2
to the Project Agreement, as said manuals, including sub-manuals, may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and a “Project Implementation 
Manual” means either of said manuals. 
(l) 
“Project Leading Groups” means, collectively, the groups established in 
each Project Province and in each of the Project Counties by their respective levels of 
government to be responsible for the activities set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement; and a “Project Leading Group” means any of the Project Leading 
Groups.   
(m) 
“Project Management Offices” means, collectively, the offices 
established at the provincial level, and in each of the Project Prefectures/cities, Project 
Counties and Project Townships by the respective levels of government, under the 
guidance of the respective Project Leading Groups, to be responsible for the activities set 
Page  5
-
4
-
forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the P
roject Agreement; and a “Project Management 
Office” means any of the Project Management Offices. 
(n) 
“Project Prefectures/cities” means, collectively, those prefectures/cities 
within Gansu and Xinjiang that have one or more Project Counties within their respective 
jurisdiction; and a “Project Prefecture/city” means any of the Project Prefectures/cities. 
(o) 
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Gansu and Xinjiang; and a 
“Project Province” means either of said Project Provinces. 
(p) 
“Project Townships” means, collectively, those townships within the 
Project Counties that are carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and a “Project 
Township” means any of the Project Townships. 
(q) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means in respect of each Project 
Province, the activities under the Project carried out or to be carried out by said Project 
Province.  
(r) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Gansu Special Account and 
the Xinjiang Special Account; and a “Special Account” means either of said Special 
Accounts. 
(s) 
“Sub-project” means a specific investment project selected for financing 
under Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.1, and C.2 of the Project
 
in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and “Sub-projects” 
means, collectively, all such Sub-projects. 
(t) 
“Technical Advisory Groups” means, collectively, the groups of experts 
established at the provincial level and in each of the Project Counties by the respective 
levels of government to provide technical advice to the respective Project Leading 
Groups, and technical support to the respective Project Management Offices, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
and “Technical Advisory Group” means any of said Technical Advisory Groups. 
(u) 
“Xinjiang” means the Borrower’s Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region, 
and any successor thereto. 
(v) 
“Xinjiang Special Account” means the account referred to in 
 Section 2.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement.  
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Gansu or Xinjiang. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty-six 
million two hundred seventy thousand Dollars ($66,270,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the carrying out of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Loan account is requested; and (ii) in respect of the fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, open and maintain in Dollars: 
(i) 
a
separate special deposit account for purposes of Gansu’s 
Respective Part of the Project; and 
(ii) 
a separate special deposit account for purposes of Xinjiang’s 
Respective Part of the Project, 
in each case in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
 (A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause each of Gansu and Xinjiang to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the respective 
obligations of Gansu and Xinjiang therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Gansu and Xinjiang to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
(b) 
To this end, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan 
available to each of Gansu and Xinjiang under the following principal terms and 
conditions:  
(i) 
the principal amount so made available to Gansu and Xinjiang 
shall be the equivalent in terms of Dollars (determined as of the 
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account, or 
payment out of the respective Special Account, as the case may 
be) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
paid out on account of the cost of items required for the 
Respective Parts of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and shall be recovered by the Borrower in 
Dollars (the respective Loan Amounts). 
(ii) 
the Borrower shall recover from each of Gansu and Xinjiang the 
respective Loan Amounts in semi-annual installments over a 
period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
(5) years; 
(iii) 
the Borrower shall charge each of Gansu and Xinjiang interest 
on the respective Loan Amounts withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at a rate which shall not exceed the rate 
payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement; and 
(iv) 
the Borrower shall charge each of Gansu and Xinjiang: (A) a 
commitment fee on the principal amount of the Loan so made 
available and not withdrawn from time to time at a rate which 
Page  9
-
8
-
shall not exceed three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum; and (B) an additional fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the respective Loan Amounts. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project, the Central Project Management Office, within the Ministry of Agriculture 
with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be 
responsible for overall Project supervision and coordination between Gansu and 
Xinjiang, including in respect of training, study tours and Project monitoring, evaluation 
and reporting.   
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Gansu and 
Xinjiang in respect of their Respective Parts of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion of said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and  accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
Either Gansu or Xinjiang shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Gansu or Xinjiang will be able to perform its respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement.  
 (ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused 
Page  11
-
10
-
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.   
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that an event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed 
and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a) 
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each of 
Gansu and Xinjiang, and is legally binding upon each of Gansu and Xinjiang in 
accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
 Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
For the Bank : 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR     
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Gansu’s Respective Part of 
the Project: 
 
(a) Works:  
 6,243,800 
44% 
(b) Goods: 
29,087,800 
100% of foreign             
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally. 
 
(c) Consultants’ services 
1,295,700 
91% 
(d) Training and study tours 
1,260,000 
100% of foreign             
expenditures and 80% of 
local expenditures  
 
(2) Xinjiang’s Respective Part 
of the Project: 
 
(a) Works: 
11,978,100 
57% 
(b) Goods 
13,385,400 
100% of foreign             
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally. 
 
(c) Consultants’ services 
   890,700 
91% 
Page  15
-
14
-
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(d) Training and study tours 
1,465,800 
100% of foreign  
expenditures and 80%  
of local expenditures 
 
(3) Fee 
  662,700 
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
TOTAL  
 
_________ 
 
66,270,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign expenditures”; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals: (a)  for Gansu, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$3,870,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (b) and (c) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule; and (b) for Xinjiang, in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $1,520,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after April 1, 2003.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less $100,000 
equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts with firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (d) consultants’ services under contracts with individuals 
Page  16
-
15
-
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) training and study tours, all  under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to promote sustainable 
natural resource management through the improvement of livestock production and 
marketing systems which would increase income for herders and farmers in Gansu 
Province and Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Grassland Management and Forage Improvement
Carrying out a program to promote the sustainable management of rangelands, 
grasslands and artificial pastures and to increase the supplies of quality feed and forage, 
said program to include the following: 
1. 
Development, testing, extension and evaluation of new systems to grow annual 
and perennial forage and fodder, including irrigation development and construction of 
deep wells to provide water for forage and fodder cultivation. 
2. 
Grassland management and improvement, through the development and 
implementation, using participatory methods, of grassland resource management plans 
and grassland management and pastoral development systems, including reseeding, 
fencing of degraded grassland, construction of water tanks to provide water for livestock 
and herders; carrying out of grassland and biodiversity surveys and preparation of 
grassland resource maps; development and implementation of pastoral risk management 
strategies.  
Part B
:
Livestock Production Improvement
Carrying out a program to develop sustainable livestock production systems and 
increase productivity through improvement in livestock genetics, and in animal 
husbandry practices and management, said program to include the following: 
1. 
Support for fine wool and mutton sheep breeding, multiplication and fattening in 
nuclear breeding stations, multiplication farms and household production. 
2. 
Support for beef breeding and fattening in household production. 
3. 
Development of dairy production through the construction of  high-yielding dairy 
cattle multiplication farms; establishment of a milk quality control center; and support to 
small-scale dairy farmers to expand their production scale and improve their production 
practices.   
Page  18
-
17
-
4. 
Conservation of native breeds of livestock through breed selection, breeding 
management and indigenous livestock breed research. 
5. 
Construction and equipping of county artificial insemination stations and 
veterinary stations. 
Part C
:
Market Systems Development
Carrying out a program to improve the marketing systems for livestock and 
livestock products, said program to include the following: 
1. 
Development of market infrastructure through the construction and rehabilitation 
of livestock markets and shearing stations; construction of wool storage facilities, milking 
stations and milk collection stations. 
2. 
Assistance to rural enterprises and farm entrepreneurs to increase production 
efficiency, profitability and value added of farms and processing enterprises. 
3. 
Support to local marketing initiatives, through the promotion and development  
of farmer and herder trading groups; reorganization of wool selling systems, including 
promotion and information regarding fine wool production. 
4. 
Development of market information services, market research activities and 
activities for the promotion and management of product quality, including identification 
and adoption of quality measurement standards for pastoral products.  
Part D
:
Applied Research, Training and Extension
1. 
Carrying out of a program of applied research to identify, develop and adapt 
relevant technologies and practices for: sustainable grassland utilization and ecosystem 
management, improved livestock efficiency, productivity and quality, and market 
systems development.  
2. 
Development of training programs; provision of training to trainers and to 
technical staff at the country level for the efficient transfer of technical and management 
knowledge; and provision of training for herders, producers, herder and farmer marketing 
groups, households and medium-size farms in grassland management, forage production, 
livestock breeding and feeding for production and product quality, livestock husbandry 
and management, and use of market information.  
3. 
Carrying out of a program of extension services through participatory 
demonstrations, household visits, group discussions and leading enterprise-led training. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Part E
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the implementation capacity of Project 
management offices and to promote community participation in Project activities. 
2. 
Carrying out of studies to support the development of grassland management 
policies. 
3. 
Establishment of a Project implementation monitoring and evaluation system, 
that monitors, inter alia, integrated ecosystem management, carbon sequestration, 
biodiversity status in managed grasslands and the social and environmental impacts of the 
Project.   
 
 
    
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009.
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars
)* 
 
May 15, 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
      1,960,000 
November 15, 2009 
 
 
 
 
      1,975,000 
May 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
      1,990,000 
November 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
      2,005,000 
May 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,025,000 
November 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
      2,040,000 
May 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,055,000 
November 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
      2,075,000 
May 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,090,000 
November 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
      2,105,000 
May 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,125,000 
November 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
      2,140,000 
May 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,160,000 
November 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
      2,175,000 
May 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,195,000 
November 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
      2,215,000 
May 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,230,000 
November 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
      2,250,000 
May 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,265,000 
November 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
      2,285,000 
May 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,305,000 
November 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
      2,325,000 
May 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,340,000 
November 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
      2,360,000 
May 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,380,000 
November 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
      2,400,000 
May 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,420,000 
November 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
      2,440,000 
May 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
      2,460,000 
November 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
      2,480,000 
_______________ 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.  
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) in respect of Gansu’s  
Respective Part of the Project, Category (1); and (ii) in respect of Xinjiang’s Respective 
Part of the Project, Category (2), all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,700,000 in 
respect of the Gansu Special Account and the amount of $1,900,000 in respect of the 
Xinjiang Special Account, in each case to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 in respect of the Gansu Special 
Account, and the amount of $1,200,000 in respect of the Xinjiang Special Account, until: 
(i) in respect of the Gansu Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Loan Account allocated to Category (1) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Gansu’s Respective Part of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $15,000,000, and (ii) in respect of the Xinjiang Special Account, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Category (2) plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Xinjiang‘s Respective Part of the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  22
-
21
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
Page  23
-
22
-
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for the Respective Part of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Respective Part of the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into  any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
