Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 052456 CHA 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Gansu and Xinjiang Pastoral Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated November 6, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 052456 CHA 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 2003, between P
EOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the third replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 2002-0005 of December 19, 2002, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank (Resolution No. 2002-0005); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Parts A.2, B.4, D and
 
E
of the Project, to be carried out in the GEF-assisted Project Counties and said request 
having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 2002-0005, which may include funds carried over from the second 
replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2;  
(E) 
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing 
towards the financing of the Project; and by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Recipient and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to provide such 
assistance in an amount equal to sixty-six million two hundred seventy thousand Dollars 
($66,270,000) (the Loan);  
(F) 
the Project will be carried out by Gansu Province (Gansu) and Xinjiang –
Uyghur Autonomous Region (Xinjiang) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Recipient will make available to Gansu and Xinjiang the proceeds of 
Page  3
-
2
-
the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement for purposes of carrying out 
Parts A.2, B.4, D and E of the Project in the GEF-assisted Project Counties (hereinafter 
defined); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Gansu and Xinjiang (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:   
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (but excluding Sections 2.01(1), (10), (11), (12), 
(13), (15), (17) and (20)), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02(a) and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (but excluding 6.02(b), (k) and (n)), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.02 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting 
in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(j) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiaries Participation Sub-Manuals” means the Gansu 
Beneficiaries Participation Sub-Manual dated July 17, 2003, adopted by Gansu and the 
Xinjiang Beneficiaries Participation Sub-Manual dated July 17, 2003, adopted by 
Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, each 
manual identifying the beneficiary groups and types of activities to be undertaken by said 
beneficiaries, and setting out the process and forum for meaningful consultation with and 
informed participation of said beneficiaries; and “Beneficiaries Participation Sub-
manual” means either of said sub-manual. 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Dam Safety Review Guidelines” means the Dam Safety Review 
Guidelines dated July 17, 2003, referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which sets out the procedure for reviewing the safety of dams that may be 
included in the Project and the criteria for application of said guidelines. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
“Environmental Management and Monitoring Plans” and “EMMPs” 
mean: (i) the Gansu Environmental Management Plan dated July 17, 2003, adopted by 
Gansu; and (ii) the Xinjiang Environmental Management Plan, dated July 17, 2003, 
adopted by Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, in each case setting out the environmental protection measures in respect of 
Gansu and Xinjiang’s Respective Parts of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and “Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan” and “EMMP” mean either of said plans. 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement. 
(f) 
“Gansu” means the Borrower’s Gansu Province, and any successor 
thereto. 
(g) 
“Gansu Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b)(i) of this Agreement. 
(h) 
“GEF-assisted Project Counties” means, collectively, all those Project 
Counties of Gansu and Xinjiang listed in paragraphs A and B respectively of the Annex 
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such list may be amended from time to time by 
mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.  
(i) 
“Multi-Ethnic Groups Development Strategies” means: (i) the Gansu 
Multi-Ethnic Groups Development Strategy, dated July 17, 2003, adopted by Gansu, and 
(ii) the Xinjiang Multi Ethnic Groups Development Strategy, dated July 17, 2003, 
adopted by Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, in each case setting forth the strategy and activities incorporated into Gansu 
and Xinjiang’s Respective Parts of the Project, to ensure: (i) meaningful
 
consultation 
with and informed participation of minority nationality communities in the design and 
implementation of Project activities in locations in which such communities reside, 
(ii) Project benefits which are socially and culturally acceptable to such communities, and 
(iii) reduction, mitigation and off-setting of potential adverse impacts on such 
communities, as said strategies may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank; and a “Multi Ethnic Development Strategy” means either of said strategies. 
(j) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Gansu 
and Xinjiang of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(k) 
“Project Counties” means, collectively, those counties, districts and 
county level cities within Gansu and Xinjiang which are carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof; and a “Project County” means any of the Project Counties.   
Page  6
-
5
-
(l) 
“Project Implementation Manuals” means, collectively: (i) the Gansu 
Project Implementation Manual dated July 17, 2003, including sub-manuals, prepared by 
Gansu, and (ii) the Xinjiang Project Implementation Manual, dated July 17, 2003, 
including sub-manuals, prepared by Xinjiang, both referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 
2
to the Project Agreement, as said manuals, including sub-manuals, may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and a “Project Implementation 
Manual” means either of said manuals. 
(m) 
“Project Leading Groups” means, collectively, the groups established in 
each Project Province and in each of the Project Counties by their respective levels of 
government to be responsible for the activities set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement; and a “Project Leading Group” means any of the Project Leading 
Groups. 
(n) 
“Project Management Offices” means, collectively, the offices 
established at the provincial level, and in each of the Project Prefectures/cities, Project 
Counties and Project Townships by the respective levels of government, under the 
guidance of the respective Project Leading Groups, to be responsible for the activities set 
forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and a “Project Management 
Office” means any of the Project Management Offices. 
(o) 
“Project Prefectures/cities” means, collectively, those prefectures/cities 
within Gansu and Xinjiang that have one or more Project Counties within their respective 
jurisdiction; and a “Project Prefecture/city” means any of the Project Prefectures/cities. 
(p) 
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Gansu and Xinjiang; and a 
“Project Province” means either of said Project Provinces. 
(q) 
“Project Townships” means, collectively, those townships within the 
Project Counties that are carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and a “Project 
Township” means any of the Project Townships. 
(r) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means in respect of each Project 
Province, the activities under the Project carried out or to be carried out by said Project 
Province.  
(s) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Gansu Special Account and 
the Xinjiang Special Account; and a “Special Account” means either of said Special 
Accounts. 
(t) 
“Sub-project” means a specific investment project selected for financing 
under Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.1, and C.2 of the Project
 
in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and “Sub-projects” 
means, collectively, all such Sub-projects. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(u) 
“Technical Advisory Groups” means, collectively, the groups of experts 
established at the provincial level and in each of the Project Counties by the respective 
levels of government to provide technical advice to the respective Project Leading Group, 
and technical support to the respective Project Management Office, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and “Technical 
Advisory Group” means any of said Technical Advisory Groups. 
(v) 
“Xinjiang” means the Borrower’s Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region, 
and any successor thereto. 
(w) 
“Xinjiang Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to ten million five hundred thousand Dollars ($10,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Parts A.2, 
B.4, D and E of the Project in the GEF-assisted Project Counties and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars: 
(i) 
a separate special deposit account for purposes of Gansu’s 
Respective Part of the Project; and 
(ii) 
a separate special deposit account for purposes of Xinjiang’s 
Respective Part of the Project, 
in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause each of Gansu and Xinjiang to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the respective obligations of Gansu and Xinjiang therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Gansu and Xinjiang to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
To this end, the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant. available to each of Gansu and Xinjiang on a grant basis, without 
deduction of any charge, commission or fee of any kind from the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project, the Central Project Management Office, within the Ministry of Agriculture 
with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be 
responsible for overall Project coordination between Gansu and Xinjiang, including in 
respect of procurement, training, study tours and Project monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting.   
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Recipient hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Gansu and 
Xinjiang in respect of their Respective Parts of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion of said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and  accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
Either Gansu or Xinjiang shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Gansu or Xinjiang will be able to perform its respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (c): 
(A) 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of  
any Loan made to the Recipient for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the Loan Agreement, or 
(B) 
the Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (c) shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:        (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Recipient from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
Page  11
-
10
-
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Recipient and is legally binding upon the Recipient in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
Page  12
-
11
-
For the Bank : 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names 
in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
 Authorized Representative 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
GEF Trust Fund 
Grant (Expressed 
in Dollars)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)   
Gansu’s Respective Part of               
the Project in GEF-
assisted           
Project Counties: 
 
(a)  Goods for Parts A.2, B.4 
and E of the Project 
(including grassland 
conservation and 
monitoring equipment, 
equipment for livestock 
conservation and for office 
management, and 
indigenous breeding animal 
stocks) 
1,694,000 
100% of foreign             
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally 
 
(b) Consulta
nts’ services under 
Parts A.2, B.4, D and E of 
the Project (including for 
grassland ecosystem 
management, biodiversity 
conservation, participatory 
grassland planning, 
indigenous livestock breed 
conservation, related 
applied research, extension 
services and provision of 
training)  
2,086,000 91% 
Page  15
-
14
-
(c) Training and study tours 
under Parts A.2, B.4, D and 
E
of
the Project 
1,220,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 80% 
of local expenditures 
 
(d) Incremental Operating 
Costs  
250,000 100% 
(2)   Xinjiang’s Respe
ctive Part       
of the Project in GEF-   
assisted Project Counties: 
 
(a)  Goods for Parts A.2 and 
B.4 of the Project 
(including grassland 
conservation and 
monitoring equipment, 
equipment for livestock 
conservation and for office 
management, and 
indigenous breeding animal 
stocks) 
1,694,000 
100% of foreign             
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally 
 
(b) Consultants’ services for 
grassland ecosystem 
management, biodiversity 
conservation, participatory 
grassland planning, 
indigenous livestock breed 
conservation, related 
applied research, extension 
services and provision of 
training under Parts A.2, 
B.4, D and E of the Project 
2,086,000 91% 
(c) Training and study tours 
under Parts A.2, B.4, D and 
E
of
the Project 
1,220,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 80% 
of local expenditures 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
(d) Incremental Operating 
Costs  
250,000 100% 
 
TOTAL 
________ 
 
10,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Recipient for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Recipient for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign expenditures”;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures 
directly related to the Project (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent 
the Project) incurred by project management offices in respect of office supplies 
(excluding equipment) and communications, logistical and translation services, and staff 
travel and subsistence, but excluding staff salaries, all in carrying out supervision of the 
implementation of Parts A.2, B.4, D and E of the Project in the GEF-assisted Project 
Counties.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less $100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts 
with firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under 
contracts with individuals costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; (d) domestic 
training and study tours; and (e) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
Page  17
-
16
-
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to promote sustainable 
natural resource management through the improvement of livestock production and 
marketing systems which would increase income for herders and farmers in Gansu 
Province and Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Grassland Management and Forage Improvement
Carrying out a program to promote the sustainable management of rangelands, 
grasslands and artificial pastures and to increase the supplies of quality feed and forage, 
said program to include the following: 
1. 
Development, testing, extension and evaluation of new systems to grow annual 
and perennial forage and fodder, including irrigation development and construction of 
deep wells to provide water for forage and fodder cultivation. 
2. 
Grassland management and improvement, through the development and 
implementation, using participatory methods, of grassland resource management plans 
and grassland management and pastoral development systems, including reseeding, 
fencing of degraded grassland, construction of water tanks to provide water for livestock 
and herders; carrying out of grassland and biodiversity surveys and preparation of 
grassland resource maps; development and implementation of pastoral risk management 
strategies.  
Part B
:
Livestock Production Improvement
Carrying out a program to develop sustainable livestock production systems and 
increase productivity through improvement in livestock genetics, and in animal 
husbandry practices and management, said program to include the following: 
1. 
Support for fine wool and mutton sheep breeding, multiplication and fattening in 
nuclear breeding stations, multiplication farms and household production. 
2. 
Support for beef breeding and fattening in household production. 
3. 
Development of dairy production through the construction of  high-yielding dairy 
cattle multiplication farms; establishment of a milk quality control center; and support to 
small-scale dairy farmers to expand their production scale and improve their production 
practices.   
Page  19
-
18
-
4. 
Conservation of native breeds of livestock through breed selection, breeding 
management and indigenous livestock breed research. 
5. 
Construction and equipping of county artificial insemination stations and 
veterinary stations. 
Part C
:
Market Systems Development
Carrying out a program to improve the marketing systems for livestock and 
livestock products, said program to include the following: 
1. 
Development of market infrastructure through the construction and rehabilitation 
of livestock markets and shearing stations; construction of wool storage facilities, milking 
stations and milk collection stations. 
2. 
Assistance to rural enterprises and farm entrepreneurs to increase production 
efficiency, profitability and value added of farms and processing enterprises. 
3. 
Support to local marketing initiatives, through the promotion and development  
of farmer and herder trading groups; reorganization of wool selling systems, including 
promotion and information regarding fine wool production. 
4. 
Development of market information services, market research activities and 
activities for the promotion and management of product quality, including identification 
and adoption of quality measurement standards for pastoral products.  
Part D
:
Applied Research, Training and Extension
1. 
Carrying out of a program of applied research to identify, develop and adapt 
relevant technologies and practices for: sustainable grassland utilization and ecosystem 
management, improved livestock efficiency, productivity and quality, and market 
systems development.  
2. 
Development of training programs; provision of training to trainers and to 
technical staff at the country level for the efficient transfer of technical and management 
knowledge; and provision of training for herders, producers, herder and farmer marketing 
groups, households and medium-size farms in grassland management, forage production, 
livestock breeding and feeding for production and product quality, livestock husbandry 
and management, and use of market information.  
3. 
Carrying out of a program of extension services through participatory 
demonstrations, household visits, group discussions and leading enterprise-led training. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Part E
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the implementation capacity of Project 
management offices and to promote community participation in Project activities. 
2. 
Carrying out of studies to support the development of grassland management 
policies. 
3. 
Establishment of a Project implementation monitoring and evaluation system, 
that monitors, inter alia, integrated ecosystem management, carbon sequestration, 
biodiversity status in managed grasslands and the social and environmental impacts of the 
Project.   
 
 
    
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
ANNEX 
TO 
SCHEDULE 2 
GEF-assisted Project Counties 
A. 
GEF-assisted Project Counties in Gansu
Activities financed by proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will be carried out 
in the Counties of Sunan, Subei, Jingtai, Tianzhu, Dingxi, Suzhou (formerly, Jiuquan), 
Yongchang, Ganzhou (formerly, Zhangye), and Liangzhou. 
 
B. 
GEF-assisted Project Counties in Xinjiang
Activities financed by proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will be carried out 
in the Counties of Baicheng, Fuyun, Hejing, Bole, Tekesi, Qitai, Xinyuan and Yumin and 
the Cities of Altai and Hami.
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means: (i) in respect of Gansu’s Respective 
Part of the Project, Category (1); and (ii) in respect of Xinjiang’s Respective Part of the 
Project, Category (2), all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $500,000 in 
respect of the Gansu Special Account,  and an amount equal to $500,000 in respect of the 
Xinjiang Special Account, in each case to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule.  
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
Page  23
-
22
-
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Category for the respective Special Account, minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General C
onditions with respect to Gansu’s or Xinjiang’s Respective 
Part of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Category in 
Page  24
-
23
-
respect of the Respective Part of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
