Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4718 CHA 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 052456 CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Gansu and Xinjiang Pastoral Development Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
GANSU PROVINCE 
and 
XINJIANG 
–
UYGHUR AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
Dated November 6, 2003  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4718 CHA 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 052456 CHA 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and GANSU 
PROVINCE (Gansu) and XINJIANG-UYGHUR AUTONOMOUS REGION (Xinjiang) 
(Gansu and Xinjiang, each a Project Province, and collectively, the Project Provinces). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of sixty-six million two hundred seventy thousand Dollars 
($66,270,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that Gansu and Xinjiang agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement; and  
(B) 
by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Recipient) and the Bank, acting as an implementing 
agency of the GEF, the GEF has agreed to make available to the Recipient an aggregate 
principal amount equal to ten million five hundred thousand Dollars ($10,500,000) to 
assist in the financing of Parts A.2, B.4, D and E of the Project to be carried out in the 
GEF-assisted Project Counties; and  
WHEREAS each of Gansu and Xinjiang, in consideration of the Bank entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank, as an implementing agency of 
the GEF, entering into the GEF Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the GEF Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 2.01. (a) Each of Gansu and Xinjiang declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, management, financial, and 
engineering practices, and sound pastoral management, social and environmental 
standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its Respective Part 
of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Gansu or Xinjiang, as the case may be, shall otherwise agree, 
each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and cons
ultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan or the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and 
its Respective Part of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Gansu and Xinjiang, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of its Respective Part of the Project and 
for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Gansu and Xinjiang on said plans. 
Section 2.04. (a) Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of its Respective Part of the 
Page  4
-
3
-
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective 
Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, or the performance by Gansu or Xinjiang, as the case may be, of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall maintain and shall cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its 
Respective Part of the Project of the departments or agencies of Gansu or Xinjiang, as the 
case may be, responsible for carrying out its Respective Part of the Project or any part 
thereof. 
 (b) 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang  shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations of Gansu and 
Xinjiang set out in paragraph 14 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each of Gansu and 
Xinjiang shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for its 
Respective Part of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan and under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The first such financial management report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Respective Part of the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, 
each financial management report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each of 
Gansu and Xinjiang thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each of 
Gansu and Xinjiang thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
Page  6
-
5
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Gansu: 
 
Office of Gansu Provincial Foreign Loan Administration Committee 
 
No. 136 Jingning Road 
Chengguan District  
 
Lanzhou, Gansu 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 (86-931) 
8418285 
For Xinjiang: 
 
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regional Finance Bureau 
 
Department of Foreign Debt and Project 
 
Minde Avenue No. 16, Urumqi City 
830002  
Xinjiang 
Peoples’ Republic of China  
 
Facsimile: 
(86-991) 2816724 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Gansu or 
Xinjiang may be taken or executed by the Governor or Chairman, as the case may be, or 
a
Vice Governor or Vice Chairman, as the case may be, or such other person or persons 
as said Governor, Chairman, Vice Governor or Vice Chairman shall designate in writing, 
and Gansu and Xinjiang shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
GANSU PROVINCE 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
XINJIANG-UYGHUR AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines:  
(i) 
Goods, including computers and printers, and processing 
equipment for rural processing plants and enterprises, estimated 
to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,300,000 equivalent.  
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
In respect of the GEF-assisted Project Counties, grassland 
conservation equipment under Part A.2 of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent.  
(iii) 
Works for the construction of enterprise workshops, estimated to 
cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,050,000 equivalent.  
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
Part C.1 of this Section shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications 
required for compliance with the Guidelines: 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in China and such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.  
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower, in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security. 
(iv) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
(v) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
(vi) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(vii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(viii) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
(a) 
Breeding stocks of dairy cattle, mutton rams and ewes, of super fine 
wool rams, of dual purpose rams and ewes, and sheep embryos from international 
sources, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,530,000 equivalent, may be procured under contract awarded 
under international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
(i) Goods, including equipment under Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
office equipment and furniture, seeds, fertilizer, fencing materials, plastic mulch and 
local animal stock for fattening or production of fine wool or milk, estimated to cost less 
than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$35,280,000 equivalent; and (ii) in respect of GEF-assisted Project Counties, equipment 
for livestock conservation and office management under Part B.4 of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $3,520,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded under 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
(a) 
Livestock for breeding for mutton, fine wool or milk production which is 
obtainable from only a local source in a timely and dependable manner, and costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$6,680,000 equivalent; and (b) in respect of GEF-assisted Project counties, local 
indigenous breeding animal stocks which is obtainable from only a local source in a 
timely and dependable manner, and costing $340,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
may, w
ith the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4. Force 
Account
Works, such as construction of small water tanks, silage pits, hay storage and 
auction shelters, establishment of forage base, renovation of animal sheds and artificial 
insemination stations, development of river beach grassland, and other small scale 
construction, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,650,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works, such as construction of small irrigation works, livestock sheds, feedlots, 
land preparation and other small construction under Parts B and C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $26,570,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to:  
(i) 
all contracts for works and all contracts for goods procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part B above 
(international competitive bidding); and 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
(ii) 
all contracts for works and all contracts for goods procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C above 
(national competitive bidding). 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract for works in each Project Prefecture 
or City, procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Part C above (small 
works); (ii) all contracts for goods procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2(a) of Part C above (international shopping); (iii) the first contract for goods 
in each Project Prefecture or City, procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2(b)(i) or 2(b)(ii) of Part C above (national shopping); and (iv) each Project 
Province, the first contract for breeding livestock for mutton and the first contract for 
breeding livestock for fine wool and with respect to each Project County, the first 
contract for breeding livestock for milk production, all procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3(a) or 3(b) of Part C above (direct contracting), the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(A) 
prior to the selection of any supplier of any contract under 
shopping procedures, or of any contractor under small works 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(B) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, shopping procedures or small works procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications 
and the draft contract; and 
(C) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Quality-based 
Selection
(a) 
Services for comprehensive planning of grassland conservation, 
development of marketing strategy and data base development, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent; and (b) in respect of GEF-assisted Project 
Counties, services for grassland ecosystem management and biodiversity conservation 
under Part A.2 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $960,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(a) 
Services for the training of trainers, grassland management, and the 
development and promotion of product quality standards system that are estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,160,000 equivalent; and (b) in respect of GEF-assisted Project Counties, services for 
indigenous livestock breed conservation under Part B.4 of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$2,250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines; and, on an exceptional basis, may be selected on a sole-source basis in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
any requests for propo
sals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) GEF-assisted Project 
Counties, each contract for the employment of consulting firms under Part A.2, B.4, D 
and C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) GEF-assisted 
Project counties, each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications 
and experience of candidates (or in the case of sole source selection, the qualifications 
and experience of the consultants), terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
 
Project Management and Coordination
1. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall, throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project: 
(a) 
maintain its Project Leading Group chaired by a Vice Governor or Vice 
Chairman, as the case may be, with representation from the relevant Provincial agencies 
and concerned entities within the Project Province, including from the Women’s 
Federation; said Project Leading Group to be responsible, with respect to implementation 
of the Project, for: (i) providing overall guidance and support; (ii) providing coordination 
among relevant line agencies and bureaus of the Project Province; (iii) coordinating 
counterpart funding from various agencies and sources; (iv) evaluating sub-project 
proposals under Part C.2 of the Project in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank 
and deciding on their eligibility for financing under the Project; and (v) monitoring; and 
(b) 
cause each Project County to maintain its Project Leading Group, under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible, with respect to the 
implementation of the Project at the Project County level, for: (i) providing overall 
guidance and support; (ii) providing coordination among relevant line agencies and 
bureaus of the Project County; and (iii) monitoring. 
2. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall, throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project: 
 
(a) 
maintain its Provincial Project Management Office within the Provincial 
Bureau of Animal Husbandry, to manage and coordinate the activities under its 
Respective Part of the Project under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; said 
Provincial Project Management Office to be under the direction of qualified and 
experienced managers and staffed with competent personnel in sufficient numbers, and 
provided with adequate resources, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) 
cause to be maintained: (i) a Project Management Office for each Project 
Prefecture/city with more than one Project County and for each Project County, and 
(ii) unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, a work station for each Project Township, 
each such project management office or work station to be managed and staffed with 
qualified personnel in sufficient numbers, and provided with adequate resources, to be 
responsible for the day-to-day management and coordination of Project implementation 
within their respective jurisdiction, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall, throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project: 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
(a) 
maintain its Technical Advisory Group at the provincial level to support 
its respective Project Leading Group and Provincial Project Management Office by 
providing technical advice and making recommendations on the technical aspects of its 
Respective Part of the Project, including reviewing applied research proposals, the 
strategy for providing training and extension services, and training plans; said Technical 
Advisory Group to consist of: (i) qualified and experienced technical specialists and 
engineers from provincial technical bureaus; and (ii) representatives of cooperating 
research institutes, producer groups, and other concerned agencies; and 
(b) 
cause each Project County to maintain its county-level Technical 
Advisory Group to support the County Project Management Office by providing 
technical advice and making recommendations on the technical aspects of the Project 
within said Project County; said Project County level Technical Advisory Group to 
consist of: (i) qualified and experienced technical specialists and engineers from county 
technical agencies; (ii) farmer and herder representatives; and (iii) local representatives of 
extension institutes, producer groups, and other concerned agencies. 
4. 
By January 31, 2004, each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall establish, and thereafter 
maintain during the period of implementation of its Respective Part of the Project, a 
management information system acceptable to the Bank for purposes of monitoring and 
furnishing reports on the Project implementation; and shall operate said system in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. 
Environmental Management and Monitoring
5. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall: 
(a) 
Carry out, and cause to be carried out, its respective Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and designed to 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
environmental practices and standards. Without limitation to the foregoing, each Project 
Province shall cause each Project Management Office at the Project County level and its 
environmental protection bureau and water resources bureau to enter into a work 
agreement, adequate for the management and implementation of said Plan, all in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) 
Furnish any proposed revision of said plan to the Bank for its prior 
approval.  
(c) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate, on 
an ongoing basis and in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying 
out of said plan. 
(d) 
In respect of Sub-projects under Parts B.2, B.3, C.1 and C.2 of the 
Project, cause the respective beneficiaries to: (i) carry out an environmental screening in 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and thereafter (ii) incorporate 
appropriate mitigation measures into the relevant Sub-projects. 
National Minorities
6. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, its 
respective Multi-Ethnic Groups Development Strategy in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank and designed to provide meaningful consultation with and informed participation of 
ethnic minority groups in its Respective Part of the Project, and to ensure that benefits  
under its Respective Part of the Project are socially and culturally acceptable to
 
such 
groups.  
Dam Safety
7. 
In the event that any irrigation scheme under Part A of the Project draws from an 
existing dam or a dam under construction, Gansu and Xinjiang each shall apply, or cause 
to be applied, in the implementation of the schemes, the Dam Safety Review Guidelines 
and: 
 
(a) 
Arrange for one or more independent dam specialists to: (i) inspect and 
evaluate the safety status of said dam, its appurtenance and its performance history; 
(ii) review and evaluate the operation and maintenance procedures for said dam; and 
(iii) provide to Gansu or Xinjiang, as the case may be, the Borrower and the Bank a 
written report of findings and recommendations for any remedial work or safety-related 
measures necessary to upgrade said dam to a standard of safety acceptable to the Bank.  
(b) 
In the event substantial remedial work is determined to be required 
following the report of said dam specialists, make arrangements for said work to be 
designed and supervised by qualified engineers acceptable to the Bank; provided that, in 
respect of dams of a height of fifteen (15) meters or more, Gansu or Xinjiang, as the case 
may be, shall; (i) prepare and provide to the Bank for its review and comment, detailed 
plans for construction supervision and quality assurance, for instrumentation, operation 
and maintenance, and for emergency preparedness; (ii) implement, and cause to be 
implemented, said plans in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) following 
completion of construction, carry out periodic safety inspection of said dams. 
Participation of Beneficiaries
8. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall: 
(a) 
Implement its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of its respective Beneficiaries Participation Sub-manual to ensure meaningful 
consultation with and informed participation of Project beneficiaries in the design of 
specific Project activities and the implementation of such activities. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
(b) 
Furnish any proposed revision of said sub-manual to the Bank for its 
prior approval. 
(c) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis and in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the results of such consultation and participation in the implementation of its Respective 
Part of the Project. 
Project Implementation Manual
9. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall: 
 
(a) 
Carry out, and cause to be carried out, its Respective Part of the Project 
in accordance with its respective Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Bank, 
each manual to include:  
(i) 
(A) Criteria and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
selection of Sub-projects and the beneficiaries of said Sub-
projects, generally; and (B) specifically, a household sub-manual 
in respect of financing to be provided for eligible sub-projects 
carried out by individuals or farmer and herder households, and 
an enterprise sub-manual in respect of financing to be provided 
for eligible sub-projects carried out by rural enterprises or large-
scale sub-projects carried out by rural entrepreneurs; said sub-
manuals to establish, inter alia, that: in recovering the costs of 
such Sub-projects, the Project Provinces shall not pass on any 
foreign exchange risk to farmer and herder beneficiaries and all 
charges or fees on such cost-recovery payments shall be 
consolidated into one rate which shall remain fixed for the 
duration of the cost-recovery period.  
(ii) 
Programs for the development and provision of extension 
services, training, study tours and applied research. 
(iii) 
A participatory grassland management sub-manual, satisfactory 
to the Bank, setting forth the detailed guidelines and procedures 
for the implementation of the grassland management activities 
under Part A of the Project. 
(iv) 
Principles and procedures for the appropriate timing and 
sequencing in the implementation of specific Project activities, 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
(v) 
Principles, procedures and schedules, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, including of 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
the implementation of the respective Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan, Multi-Ethnic Groups 
Development Strategy, and Beneficiaries Participation Sub-
Manual and Dam Safety Review Guidelines.  
(vi) 
A procurement management sub-manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, including therein procurement procedures and standard 
documentation in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.  
(vii) 
A financial management sub-manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
including therein reporting requirements and financial 
management procedures, including audit procedures, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of this Agreement.  
(b) 
Furnish to the Bank for its prior approval any proposed amendment to 
the provisions of said Project Implementation Manual (including any of the sub-manuals) 
and, thereafter, put into effect such amendment as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
Project Annual Work Plan
10. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall:  
(a) 
by November 15 of each year (except for the first year which annual 
work plan is due on January 31, 2004), prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment, a proposed annual work plan for the implementation of its Respective Part of 
the Project in the following calendar year (including, in detail, for each such year, the 
program of international training and study tours; the feed balance report referred to in 
paragraph 13 of this Schedule; the program of support to farmer and herder groups under 
Part C.3 of the Project; the program of activities for market information systems 
development under Part C.4 of the Project; the program of research activities, training 
and extension services under Part D of the project, the plan for counterpart funding and 
the procurement plan), said work plan to be prepared in accordance with: (i)  guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the provisions of the respective Environmental Management 
and Monitoring Plan; (iii) the provisions of the respective Beneficiaries Participation 
Sub-Manual; (iv) the provisions of the respective Multi-Ethnic Groups Development 
Strategy; and (v) the guidelines for phasing and sequencing of activities set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual; and  
(b) 
thereafter, each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall carry out its Respective Part 
of the Project during the following calendar year in accordance with such annual work 
plan, giving due consideration to the Bank’s views thereon.  
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
Sub-Projects under Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.1, and C.2 of the Project
11. 
With respect to Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.1, and C.2 of the Project, each of 
Gansu and Xinjiang shall ensure that the respective Project Counties shall evaluate and 
select Sub-projects in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual (including the household and the enterprise sub-manuals referred to in paragraph 
9(a)(i) above) including that: 
(a) 
Each Sub-project may be approved only if: 
(i) 
the proposed Sub-project and Sub-project beneficiary satisfy the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual; and 
(ii) 
the Sub-project beneficiary has prepared an environmental 
assessment and an environmental management and monitoring 
plan, on the basis of standards satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with the principles set forth in the Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan, in the event that the 
environmental screening carried out in accordance with said 
principles concludes that such assessment and management and 
monitoring plan are required.  
 (b) 
In respect of each Sub-project the relevant Project County shall obtain, 
by written contract with the Sub-project beneficiary, or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of such Project County, the respective Project 
Province, the Borrower and the Bank, including that each Sub-project beneficiary shall 
undertake to:  
(i) 
repay the costs of such Sub-project in Renminbi; 
(ii) 
carry its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance with sound financial and technical practices and 
consistent with health, safety and environmental practices 
acceptable to the Bank, including appropriate environmental 
mitigation measures as set forth in the Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan;  
(iii) 
provide promptly, as needed, resources required for the purposes 
of the Sub-project;  
(iv) 
maintain adequate records and accounts;  
(v) 
use the works, goods and services procured for the Sub-project 
exclusively in the carrying out of such Sub-project; 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
(vi) 
maintain and operate its equipment and facilities at all times, and 
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and industry practices;  
(vii) 
enable Gansu or Xinjiang, as the case may be, the respective 
Project County, the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the goods 
and sites included in the Sub-project and any relevant records, 
accounts and documents;  
(viii) 
provide all such information as Gansu or Xinjiang, as the case 
may be, the respective Project County, the Borrower or the Bank 
may reasonably request regarding the management, operations 
and financial condition of the Sub-project beneficiary; and  
(ix) 
with respect to a Sub-project Beneficiary that is an enterprise, to 
provide the Bank, upon the Bank’s request, a copy of the then 
current year financial statement, record or accounts of said 
enterprise.   
 
(c) 
The respective Project Counties shall exercise their rights in respect of 
each Sub-project in such manner as to protect the interests of Gansu or Xinjiang, as the 
case may be, the Borrower and the Bank, and to achieve the purpose of said Sub-project.   
Part A of the Project
12. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to the development of grasslands for 
forage and fodder under Part A of the Project, each of Gansu and Xinjiang: 
(a) 
shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, water balance tests and studies 
satisfactory to the Bank to ensure adequate groundwater and surface water for said 
grasslands or pastures; and 
(b) 
shall not undertake, or allow to be undertaken, any works prior to the 
issuance by the respective water resources bureau of any necessary water withdrawal 
permits. 
Part B of the Project
13. 
For each respective Project township participating in Part B of the Project, Gansu 
and Xinjiang shall cause to be prepared, in accordance with guidelines and standards 
acceptable to the Bank, an annual township-level feed balance report, said report to be 
provided to the Bank together with the annual work plan referred to in paragraph 10 of 
this Schedule. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
Monitoring and Reporting
14. 
Each of Gansu and Xinjiang shall: 
(a) 
maintain, and cause to be maintained, policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis and in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Respective Part of the Project 
(including implementation of environmental management and monitoring plans) and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
carry out: (i) through its respective Project Management office, on an 
annual basis, a project impact survey; and (ii) through an independent institute or 
organization, a project impact assessment of the first, third and sixth years of 
implementation of the Project, both survey and assessment to be carried out under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to the Bank the results of said 
assessments by June 30 each year or the relevant year, as the case may be, commencing 
in 2004; 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing in 2004, a 
semi-annual report (provided that the last report for each calendar year shall cover the 
entire year) integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of its Respective Part of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; each such report to consolidate the reports prepared by the respective Project 
Counties and to incorporate, when applicable, the results of the survey referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph; and  
(d) 
promptly review with the Bank each report referred to in sub-paragraph 
(c) of this paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on th
e
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
 
