Report No. PIC4537
Project Name                    Bangladesh-Silk Development Pilot Project (@+)
Region                            South Asia
Sector                            Agriculture and Natural Resources Management
Project ID                        BDPA40713
Implementing Agency               Bangladesh Silk Foundation (BSF)
c/o Ministry of Textiles
Building 6, Room 1109
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact                           Mr. Ejazul Huq
Secretary
Ministry of Textiles
Phone: 832091
Fax: 860600
Date Prepared                     May 1997
Projected Appraisal Date          May 31, 1997
Projected Board Date              August 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background.   Poverty is pervasive in
Bangladesh. There is little scope for alleviating poverty through
agricultural growth alone. Government policies and programs as well
as NGO activities are now focused on creating income and employment
opportunities in rural non-farm activities. Silk production, a
highly labor intensive activity, has strong potential to increase
such opportunities for the poor, particularly women.
2.      Bangladesh has a long history in silk production because of
its agro-climatic advantages, but the industry failed to realize
its full potential because of Government's interventionist policies
resulting in distorted production and marketing incentives in
rearing and reeling activities which demotivated local private
enterprise to modernize. In 1977 Government set up the Bangladesh
Sericulture Board (BSB) to provide support to the silk industry.
Typical of most public entities, BSB's performance has been far
from satisfactory. Its monopoly position in silkmoth egg
distribution interfered with the introduction and development of
improved silkmoth varieties. It sets the prices of cocoons thus
interfering in the market. BSB's management of the research and
training activities has been poor. Bangladesh Sericulture Research
and Training Institute (BSRTI) is the research and training arm of
BSB. The Government has been aware of the detrimental effects of
current BSB operations and has indicated a willingness, in
principle, to break its monopoly position in egg distribution,
divesting its commercial operations and removing certain regulatory
functions. There are, however, several compelling reasons for the
continued existence of an institution dedicated to the development
of the silk industry. There is a need for a regulatory body for
inspection and regulation of the health of the silkworms to prevent



disease outbreaks. NGOs and the private sector do not have the
capacity to provide essential sericulture research and development
services such as, developing and testing silkworm varieties
suitable for Bangladesh's climatic conditions. In addition, there
is a need for the provision of services, such as market
information, including quality standard requirements and training,
which would be difficult for the private sector and the NGOs to
organize. A new institution would also be useful in providing a
forum to facilitate collaboration among the stakeholders, and
functioning as the think-tank to provide Government with policy
options. Setting up a Silk Foundation (SF) as an autonomous entity
representing stakeholders to fulfill these functions will thus be
an essential component of the project.
3.      Since the mid-eighties, several NGOs started to promote
sericulture and silk weaving among the poor rural women with
financial assistance from bi-lateral donors and technical
assistance from BSB. NGOs aim to involve more than 10,000 rural
families in the silk industry over the next seven years. NGOs scale
of operation is constrained by lack of market information, quality
know-how, research and technology. Unless these services are
provided, sericulture development will not take off.
4.      Project Objectives. The project is the first phase of a long-
term program to assist in increasing the income of small-scale silk
producers, most of whom are poor women, through introducing
improved technology and creating institutional and policy
improvements designed to encourage sustainable development of the
silk sector. Progress will be measured based on the following
monitorable indicators: (a) technological improvement - increase in
rearers' income; improved efficiency and quality of production, and
increase in silk production resulting from improved quality of eggs
and rearing process; (b) continued policy improvement following
reforms during project preparation (reducing import tariff to zero
on raw silk, ending monopoly on silkworm egg production and
imports, and deregulation of cocoon prices) by phased withdrawal of
subsidies on silkworm eggs and divestment of grainages (silkworm
egg hatcheries) managed by the Bangladesh Sericulture board (BSB)
and the restructuring of Bangladesh Sericulture Research and
Training Institute (BSRTI) into an autonomous entity with majority
control by the stakeholders; and (c) institutional development:
establishment and operation of a financially sustainable private
non-profit organization to promote silk production which would have
a governing body composed of major stakeholders such as, NGOs,
representatives of small scale silk producers, private financial
institutions, silk research institute and government; establishment
of small silk producers' associations to enable them to articulate
their development needs and receive necessary assistance to improve
quality of their produce and increase income.
5.      The project strategy focuses on substituting NGOs and private
sector for many of the activities currently handled by BSB,
eliminating other activities (price setting), revising the
management of the sector for its remaining activities and creating
a comparative advantage in all stages of silk production.
-2 -



Consistent with this strategy, the project would focus on the
creation of an enabling environment by establishing the SF as a
non-profit company with representatives of the stakeholders.
6.      Project Description. The proposed project will have the
following components:
(a) Institutional
(i) establishment of SF
(ii) development of rearers', reelers' and weavers'
associations
(iii) strengthening of Textile Strategic Management
Unit (TSMU)
(b) Research and Productivity Enhancement
(i) development of BSRTI's research capacity
(ii) development of germplasm centers (GMC)
(iii) grainage development
(iv) pilot bivoltine cocoon development
(c) Technology dissemination
(i) development of BSRTI's training capacity
(ii) establishment of field training centers
(iii) extension
(iv) demonstration chawki rearing technology
(d) Product Development and Market Promotion
(i) design and market promotion
Technical assistance will be provided for identifying tested
improved reeling devices, advising in improved technology in
reeling, twisting, dyeing, printing and finishing and developing
silk standards. Technical assistance will also be provided to
assist in the identification of the research and development needs
of the silk sub-sector and the introduction of improved research
management systems.
7.      Environmental Aspects. Sericulture per se is associated with
very few potential adverse impacts. Mulberry cultivation generally
has beneficial environmental effects through soil conservation and
provision of prunings reducing unsustainable harvesting of fuel
wood. The key environmental issues are health and safety in the
work place and these problems can be readily avoided or mitigated
by observing appropriate practices. An environmental assessment has
been undertaken and the report is under review.
8.      Participation. To ensure ownership to the project's concept
and design, project preparation is the responsibility to the
Ministry of Textiles-NGO/private sector consultative forum.
9.      Project Implementation. The proposed project will be
implemented by the SF. A governing body of 12 persons have been
formed with representatives from Government (2); NGOs (2);
rearers', reelers' and weavers' (3); BSRTI (1); private sector (1);
private financial institution (1); and the Chairperson and the
Managing Director.
-3-



10.     Project Costs and Financing. At preappraisal, project cost
has been estimated to be US$11.02 million of which IDA is expected
to contribute US$9. 77million and the rest by the Government, SF
and participating NGOs/private sector.
11.     Project Benefits. The primary beneficiaries of the project
would be mainly rural poor women. The project is expected to create
additional 0.66 million person days annually of direct employment
in rearing (about 80t of whom will be rural poor women) and 0.20
million person days annually from reeling activities. The project
will also have a positive impact on the empowerment of rural poor,
particularly women, not only to become financially self sufficient
but also to be established entrepreneurs. Silkworm rearers daily
earning is expected to increase three fold over the project period.
The project would help to improve productivity in rearing and
reeling activities, thereby reduce cost of production, improve
quality and increase quantity of raw silk. The domestic output of
quality raw silk is expected to increase to 181 tons to 2002
compared to approximately 29 tons produced in 1994-1995. There will
also be significant increase in employment opportunities in the
weaving, dyeing and finishing sectors as well.
12.     Poverty Category: This is a poverty-focused operation.
13.     Program Objective Categories: The project addresses poverty
alleviation, women in development, private sector development,
public sector management, and natural resources objectives.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Issues
An environmental impact analysis report was completed by
consultants in May 1997. The report concluded that there was no
significant environmental concerns. While there was some "low
adverse impact" of dyeing activities, the production volume of
effluent is and will continue to be small, and to have limited
impact as the units are not concentrated but scattered all over the
country. The other environmental issue noted was the risk of
negative impacts on health due to handling of formaldehyde during
cocoon boiling. This risk can be handled by appropriate training.
Overall, the project is expected to be environmentally beneficial.
Mulberry cultivation helps soil conservation and pruning reduce
unsustainable harvesting of fuelwood.
Proposed Action
Training on proper handling of formaldehyde to the arranged by
NGOs. An environmental monitoring plan will be developed for each
production units and periodic environmental audits will be
undertaken. A further comprehensive environmental impact analysis
will be undertaken at mid-term review of the project to determine
the effects of the expansion in the dyeing units and provide for a
mitigation plan, if necessary.



