Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER
3004
BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Silk Development Project)
between
PEOPLE
’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November
21, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER
3004
BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November
21,
1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association). 
WHEREAS
(A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Bangladesh Silk Foundation (SF) with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to SF the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or
(b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import
of goods, if
such
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by
a decision of
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
the Charter
of the United Nations."
(c)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.
Cancellation by the Association.
If
(a)
the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days, or
(b)
at any time, the Association determines, after
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be
required to finance the Project
’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of
the
Credit, or
(c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect 
to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt
or fraudulent
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or
of a beneficiary of
the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such
contract, without the
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the
amount of
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have
been eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or
(d)
at any
time, the
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be
financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes
the amount of
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise
have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or
(e)
after the
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.
Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order,
1972
(P.O. No. 127 of 1972) as amended; 
(b)
"Bivoltine" means a silkworm variety which breeds twice a year; 
(c)
"BSB" means the Bangladesh Sericulture Board established under the 
Bangladesh Sericulture Board Ordinance of
1977
(Ordinance No. LXII of 1977); 
(d)
"BSRTI" means the Bangladesh Silk Research and Training Institute or any 
successor thereto;
(e)
 "Chawki" means a young silkworm up to the age of about 12 days after 
hatching;
(f)
"FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing July 1 and ending 
June
30;
(g)
"Grainages" means silkworm egg hatcheries; 
(h)
"MOT" means the Ministry of Textiles of the Borrower; 
(i)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations established and/or operating 
in the Borrower’s territory;
(j)
"POs" means Participating Organizations, such as NGOs, universities, 
research organizations, private sector silk enterprises or BSRTI, which may enter into
contracts with SF for carrying out Parts B.1 (i), B.3, C.2, C.3, or D of the Project; 
(k)
 "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and SF 
Page  3
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(l)
"SF" means the Bangladesh Silk Foundation, a body corporate established 
and existing under the Bangladesh Companies Act,
1913
(amended in
1994); 
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SF pursuant to Section
3.01
(b)
of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
(o)
"Textile Strategic Management Unit" or "TSMU" means the advisory body in 
MOT. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section
2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights
(SDR
8,300,000). 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement for
expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule
2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4
to this
Agreement.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section
2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be
set by the Association as of June
30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement
(the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii)
at
the rate set as of the June
30
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request;
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02
of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section
2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4
of
1%)
per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section
2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April
15
and October
15
in each year. 
Section
2.07. (a)
Subject to paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on
each April
15
and October
15
commencing April
15, 2008 and ending October 15, 2037. 
Page  4
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October
15
,
2017
shall be
one percent
(1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
two percent
(2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph
(a)
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment
date referred to in paragraph
(a)
above falling six months or more after the date on
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph
(b)
above to include, in lieu of some or all of
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above mentioned
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower,
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph
(a)
above.
Section
2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section
2.09. The Managing Director of SF is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section
2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause SF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of SF therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SF to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit to SF under 
a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SF, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall
include, inter alia, those set forth or referred to in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement and in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
or any provision thereof. 
Section
3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
1
to
the Project Agreement. 
Page  5
Section
3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SF 
pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section
3.04. The Borrower shall by June 30, 2000, lease to SF the two remaining 
seed grainages referred to in Part B.2 of the Project under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Section
3.05. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1998, take all action necessary on 
its part to restructure BSB and BSRTI into an autonomous technical organization with
representatives of the private sector engaged in silk activities having a majority on
its Governing Board.
To this end, the Borrower shall, by March
31, 1998, prepare and 
furnish to the Association, for its approval, the proposed restructuring plan.
Section
3.06. Without limitation to the generality of Section 3.01 (a) hereof, 
the Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure: 
(a) that SF will maintain and operate its facilities after completion of the 
Project; and
(b) that all other facilities under the Project will be maintained and operated 
after completion of the Project for the objectives set forth in Schedule
2
to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association
’s representatives to examine such records.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  6
Section
5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
SF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
(c)
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of SF shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of SF to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SF or for the suspension of its
operations.
Section
5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section
6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SF;
(b)
the Borrower has leased to SF three of the five seed grainages referred 
to in Part B.2
of Schedule
2
hereto, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; and
(c)
the Borrower has made interim arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association for the provision of technical services to SF for carrying out Parts A.1 
and B.2 of the Project prior to the appointment of the consultants referred to in 
paragraph
6
(a)
of Schedule
2
to the Project Agreement.
Section
6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section
12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SF, 
and is legally binding upon SF in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and SF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SF in
accordance with its terms. 
Section
6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section
6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(b)
of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall 
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary,
Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section
7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People
’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
/s/ Quazi Mesbahuddin Ahmed 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
%
of
Page  8
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
90%
(a)
For Parts B.1 (ii)
310,000
and
(iii) and C.1
(i) and (ii) of the 
Project
(b)
All other Parts
980,000
(2)
Goods
100%
of foreign
expenditures,
(a)
For Parts B.1 (ii)
350,000
100% of local
and
(iii)
and C.1
expenditures
(ex-factory
(i) and (ii) of the
cost) and 70% of local 
of the Project
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(b) All other Parts
500,000
(3)
Consultants
’
services,
3,110,000
100%
NGOs' services,
training, and research
grants
(4)
Promotion activities 
170,000
97%
under Part D.2 of the 
Project
(5)
Initial operating costs
40,000
100%
of SF
(6)
Incremental staff and
operating costs
(a) For Parts A.1, B.2
1,140,000
100% through 
C.1 (iii) of the 
FY2000, 60% in
Project
FY2001, and 40%
thereafter
(b) For Parts B.1 (iii)
180,000
90% through FY99,
and C.2 of the Project
60% in FY2000,
and
35%
thereafter
(7)
Severance payments
730,000
100%
under Part A.2 of the
Project
(8)
Unallocated
790,000
TOTAL
8,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "initial operating costs of SF" means the initial working 
capital required in order to permit SF to start up its operations; and
(d)
the term "incremental staff and operating costs" means staff and 
operating cost of the SF
(including grainages), and the new germ plasm maintenance 
center established under Part B.1(iii) of the Project and costs of NGO silk extension 
staff recruited after the date of this agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Page  9
Agreement;
(
b
)
under Categories
1
(
a
)
and
2
(
a
)
until a Director of Research and
Training for BSRTI has been appointed with qualifications and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
under Category
7, until the Association has
approved a restructuring plan for purposes of Section
3.05 of this Agreement, and the 
Association notifies the Borrower of its satisfaction with the progress in the
implementation of such plan. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
(a)
for goods and works under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, (b) for civil works under force 
account,
(c) under categories (3) or (4) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
($50,000 for individual consultants) or any non-contract expenditures for travel or 
training, and
(d)
 all expenditures under categories
(5),
(6), or (7), under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the development and
expansion of economically viable private sector silk production.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Strengthening of the SF through the provision of equipment, technical assistance 
and operating costs.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, and severance payments to redundant 
employees, to assist the Borrower in restructuring BSB and BSRTI into an autonomous
technical organization.
3.
Establishing and strengthening of Rearers’, Reelers’, and Silk Weavers’ 
Associations through the provision of technical assistance and training.
4.
Strengthening of the Textile Strategic Management Unit through the provision of 
technical assistance.
Part B:
Research and Productivity Enhancement
1.
Introduction of improved silk technology through the acquisition and breeding of 
high quality silkworm eggs and development of improved rearing methods through: 
(i) carrying out a program of contract research, provision of technical assistance to 
SF in selecting and supervising said research, and provision of supplies and vehicle
operating costs for laboratory and on-farm research activities; (ii) expansion of 
BSRTI’s research capacity through renovation of laboratory facilities, provision of 
laboratory equipment, training and technical assistance; and
(iii) construction and 
equipping of a new germ plasm maintenance center, renovation of facilities and
equipment of an existing center, and provision of technical assistance.
2.
Renovation of facilities and provision of equipment, silkworm eggs, vehicles, 
technical assistance and operating costs for five seed grainages to be leased to SF.
3.
Carrying out of pilot projects focusing on the development of bivoltine silk 
production through the financing of equipment, mulberry plantation, rearing
facilities, imported silkworm eggs and technical assistance and training for private
sector bivoltine silkworm rearers.
Part C:
Technology Dissemination
1.
Development of training capacity through (i) the upgrading of BSRTI’s training 
facilities, including construction of a women’s hostel, (ii) improving BSRTI’s 
training programs, and
(iii)
establishment and equipping of a training center for
silkworm rearers and reelers at each of the five grainages leased to SF.
2.
Provision by NGOs of extension services to silkworm rearers.
3.
Carrying out of demonstrations in Chawki rearing technology and financing of 
rearing houses, equipment and plantation development.
Page  10
Part D:
Product Development and Market Promotion
1.
Improving the production of creative fashion designs and publications through 
provision of professional services and training.
2.
Promotion of the Borrower
’s silk industry through trade shows.
 
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Undertaking socio-economic studies, annual and mid-term reviews, by providing 
consultants’ services.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June
30, 2002.
SCHEDULE
3
Procedures, Terms and Conditions and Implementation
Arrangements under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
for Providing Funds to Finance Silk Production Activities
Part A:
Subsidiary Financing Agreement
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement shall, inter alia, provide that:
(a)
The Borrower shall onlend to SF a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
as an interest-free Subsidiary Loan for purposes of carrying out Parts A.1, A.3, 
B.1(i), B.2, B.3, C.1(iii), C.2, C.3, D and E.
Such Subsidiary Loan shall be
denominated in Taka.
The amortization period shall be
25
years following a grace
period of
10
years for each disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit onlent to SF
as a Subsidiary Loan. The foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to SF 
as a grant for purpose of carrying out parts A.2, A.4, B.1(ii), B.1(iii), C.1(i) and 
C.1(ii) of the Project.
(c)
SF shall ensure that the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be 
utilized to operate the SF, five leased grainages, field training centers, monitoring
and evaluation, and finance contracts for research, technology dissemination, product
and market development, in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth in Parts B and C of this Schedule.
(d)
SF shall provide to the Borrower periodic reports indicating the 
aggregate amount of approved contracts with the POs.
(e)
The Borrower shall provide to SF adequate funds to finance duties and 
taxes on imported goods and
10
percent of the expenditures incurred on account of
civil works to be carried out under the Project.
(f)
The Borrower shall suspend or terminate the right of SF to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon:
(i)
failure by SF to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, or upon notice by
the Association to the Borrower that it intends to exercise any of
its remedies under Sections
6.02
and
7.01 of the General 
Conditions or Article V of the Development Credit Agreement; or
(ii)
upon notice by SF that it intends to terminate the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement, or upon the actual termination of the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, whichever occurs first.
Part B:
Financing of the SF Leased Grainages
1.
SF shall utilize a portion of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to finance the 
activities under Parts B.2 and C.1(iii) of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
2.
The Borrower will provide five grainages, identified by SF, on long-term lease 
Page  11
(
15
years
)
to SF at Tk
3400
per acre annually
.
3.
The grainages will be managed according to commercial principles.
Part C:
Contracts with POs
1.
For the purposes of Parts B.1(i), B.3,  C.3 and D, SF shall utilize a portion of 
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to enter into contracts with POs that meet and
maintain the following eligibility criteria:
(a)
General:
(i)
a PO for Parts B.3 or C.3 has a demonstrated track record of 
undertaking a successful sericulture program with poor women, or,
in the view of SF, demonstrates the potential to do so after
technical assistance and capacity building, and possesses adequate
manpower for intensive supervision;
(ii)
the PO is in compliance with all applicable labor laws of the 
Borrower;
(iii)
the PO has competent and experienced management; 
(iv)
the PO is using a standard accounting system, or is willing to 
adopt it with SF
’s assistance;
(v)
the PO maintains a strong and transparent accounting, MIS and 
internal audit system; and
(vi)
the PO has its accounts audited by a qualified external auditor on 
an annual basis.
(b)
Specific:
(i)
relevance to SF’s goals of enhancing the productivity and income 
of smallholder silk producers or cocoon processors, or to
improving export demand for Bangladeshi silk products;
(ii)
clarity with regard to time-specific outputs, methods and costs;
(iii)
proven capability to undertake the proposed activity (such as 
research, technology dissemination, market development); and
(iv)
capacity to share costs of the proposed activity.
2.
SF shall enter into a contract with each PO and such contract shall, except as 
the Association shall other agree, provide, inter alia, that:
(a)
SF shall make payments to the PO for purposes of undertaking research, 
technology dissemination or market promotion activities under Parts B.1(i), B.3, C.2, 
C.3 or D of the Project.
Such payments shall be denominated in Takas.
(b)
The PO declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and 
undertakes to conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with the applicable
labor laws of the Borrower and sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
and experienced management and in accordance with its charter.
(c)
The PO shall establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and 
operational policies for supervision and monitoring the activities under the contract
so as to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the Project and compliance with
the provisions of the contract.
(d)
The PO shall ensure that payments made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be made only to finance activities in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the contract, including, but not
limited to, the procurement procedures set forth or referred to in Schedule
1
to the
Project Agreement.
(e)
The PO shall duly perform all its obligations under the contract.
Except
as SF shall otherwise agree, PO shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the contract or any
provision thereof.
Page  12
(f)
The PO shall, at the request of SF, exchange views with SF with regard to 
the performance of its obligations under the contract and other matters relating to
the purposes of the activity.
(g)
The PO shall promptly inform SF of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of the performance by
the PO of its obligations under the contract.
(h)
The PO shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and 
record the progress of the contract and to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the PO.
(i)
The PO shall provide to SF all records, documents and information in 
respect of the contract and other activities as SF shall request.
(j)
The PO shall provide to SF at regular intervals specified by SF reports 
indicating the aggregate amount of financing provided under the contract.
(k)
The POs shall provide to SF their medium term business plan within the 
framework of which payments under the contract shall be made.
SCHEDULE
4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 7 set forth in 
the table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,135,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Schedule: (i) provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02
of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
2,000,000; and (ii) provided, further, that 
after the proceeds of the Credit initially allocated to Category
7
have been fully
disbursed for the purposes specified thereunder, or have been reallocated to another
category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, reduce the Authorized
Allocation to an amount equivalent to $400,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
Page  13
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a)
 of Section
2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section
6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  14
