                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 27415

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (TF-29556 IDA-30040)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.3 MILLION
                             (US$11.35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                         FOR A

                           SILK DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT




                                     December 23, 2003




Rural Development Sector Unit
Bangladesh Country Office
South Asia Regionals Office

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                  Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
            At Appraisal (October 1997) Tk.1.00 = US$ 0.017
                                       US$ 1.00 = Tk.44.50
                             ICR (October 2003) US$1.00 = Tk.58.4
                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 to  June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BIDS  Bangladesh Institute of Development       IDA       International Development Association
            Studies                             MAA       Memorandum and Articles of Association
BSB   Bangladesh Sericulture Board              MD         Managing Director
BSRTI Bangladesh Sericulture Research and       MOF        Ministry of Finance
      Training Institute                        MOT        Ministry of Textiles
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy               MTR        Mid-Term Review
CBA   Collective Bargaining Agents              NCB        National Competitive Bidding
DCR   Demonstration Chawki Rearing              NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
DRC   Domestic Resources Cost                   NPV        Net Present Value
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                   O&M        Operation & Maintenance
FRR   Financial Rate of Return                  PAD        Project Appraisal Document
FTC   Field Training Centers                    PKSF       Palli Karma Shahayak Foundation
FY    Financial Year                            SF         Silk Foundation
GB    Governing Body                            TA         Technical Assistance
GMC   Germplasm Maintenance Centers             TSMU       Textile Strategic Management Unit
GOB   Government of Bangladesh                  VIU        Vertically Integrated Unit




                                 Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
                               Country Director    Christine I. Wallich
                                Sector Manager     Gajanand Pathmanathan
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Wahida Huq

                                        BANGLADESH
                                Silk Development Pilot Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      30

Project ID: P040713                                                  Project Name: Silk Development Pilot Project
Team Leader: Wahida Huq                                              TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 24, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Silk Development Pilot Project                           L/C/TF Number: TF-29556; IDA-30040
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (47%); Agricultural extension and research (22%);
                            Animal production (20%); Central government administration
                            (10%); Other social services (1%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Rural policies and
                            institutions (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Administrative
                            and civil service reform (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/15/1995                                     Effective: 12/05/1997                03/19/1998
     Appraisal: 04/11/1997                                         MTR:                             11/16/2000
      Approval: 11/18/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Bangladesh (GOB)/Ministry of Textiles and Silk Foundation/NEW
                                           AUTONOMOUS SILK DEV. FOUNDATION & NGOS
                      Other Partners:      Participating Non-Governmental Organizations

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine I. Wallich                           Pierre Landel-Mills
Sector Manager:                 Constance A. Bernard                           Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:             Wahida Huq                                     Wahida Huq
ICR Primary Author:             Charles Bevan and Wahida Huq


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


         This Silk Development Project (SDP) was designed as a pilot to ascertain whether Bangladesh can
be competitive in sericulture provided the institutional, economic and technical constraints affecting silk
development are addressed. The development objective of the project is to assist in increasing the incomes
of small-scale silk producers, who are mostly poor women, through introducing improved technology and
creating an enabling institutional and policy environment to encourage sustainable development of the silk
sector.

         The key indicators identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were:
                 Improvement in rearing productivity of 60 %;
                 Improvement in reeling productivity of 30 %; and
                 Increase economic efficiency of silk production.

         Rural poverty is pervasive in Bangladesh. More than 75 percent of the population live in rural
areas. Introduction and adoption of sustainable economic activities in the rural areas would help raise the
living standards of the rural poor. Sericulture (raising silkworms) and silk reeling provide attractive income
generating activities for the rural poor, provided markets for cocoons and raw silk exist. Bangladesh has a
suitable climate for both mulberry cultivation and for raising silkworms. {Mulberry leaves are used to feed
silkworms.} In 1978, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) set up the Bangladesh Sericulture Board
(BSB) to promote sericulture and silk production nationwide. The Bangladesh Sericulture Research and
Training Institute (BSRTI) was merged with BSB and the new organization was made responsible for
research, training, operation of silkmoth egg hatcheries (grainages) to produce eggs to sell to silkworm
rearers, the purchase of cocoons from the rearers, operation of reeling units and management of two silk
mills. In the 1980s a number of the larger NGOs introduced sericulture as one of the income generating
activities for rural poor women. The NGOs faced considerable problems arising from BSB's monopoly in
silkmoth egg supply, resulting in poor quality and uncertainty of eggs supply, and cocoon pricing policies
of the BSB. At appraisal, the key issues identified in the silk sector were: (a) a history of protectionist
policies that did not provide the proper incentives to the silkworm rearers and reelers to become
competitive; (b) a parastatal-led regime (input production and input and output marketing) monopolizing
silkmoth egg production and controlling prices of cocoons; (c) under-capitalized producers, operating low
return technologies that are unable to generate the means for adopting more productive known technologies;
and (d) lack of global market information.

         Around the mid 1990s, the Government recognized that interventionist and protectionist policies
failed to stimulate growth of the silk sub-sector. Consequently in 1994, import duties on raw silk was
reduced to zero from 30 percent. As a result of this policy, the weaving segment of the industry got a
boost. With trade liberalization, rearers and reelers were unable to compete with the imported yarn
favored by the silk weavers using mechanized looms. The Government, at that time, recognized two things:
(a) search for comparative advantage for this agro-industry should proceed upstream (rearing and reeling)
and (b) the development of the commercial aspects of silk sub-sector has to take place in the private sector
while BSB's role needed to be modified according to its comparative advantage. Accordingly, the
Government sought to restructure BSB/BSRTI into autonomous technical organizations. Consistent with
this strategy, GOB also established the Bangladesh Silk Foundation (SF) as a non-profit company to
undertake promotional aspects of small scale silk producers and to introduce improved technology. The SF
is run by a Managing Director (MD) who reports to a Governing Board (GB) of 12 members, representing
all sub-sector stakeholders, such as rearers, reelers, weavers, NGOs, rural financial institutions,



                                                      - 2 -

represented by Palli Karma Shayak Foundation (PKSF), Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Ministry of
Textiles (MOT). The Government sought assistance from IDA to address the technical, institutional and
policy constraints affecting the sub-sector, and to specifically support the restructuring of BSB/BSRTI,
and strengthen SF.

Assessment of Objectives:

         The project's development objective addressed the need to identify sustainable employment
opportunities for rural poor women through further deregulation, institutional development, productivity
enhancement based on client-focused research, extension and training, product development and market
information. The objectives conformed with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report
14998-BD, November 1996) which inter alia, stressed on the need for further improvements in the policy
environment to capture the value added in economic activities through increased participation of the private
sector and to target programs towards the poor, particularly women and increase the participation of NGOs
in social and economic development.

3.2 Revised Objective:

         The objectives were not revised during the project implementation period, even though the project
was substantially scaled back with cancellations totaling to SDR 3.77 million.

3.3 Original Components:

         The project had five components: (a) Policy Reform and Institutional Development, (b)
Productivity Enhancement and Research, (c) Technology Dissemination, (d) Product Development and
Market Promotion, and (e) Monitoring and Evaluation. Some of these components had several
sub-components.

(a)      Policy Reform and Institutional Development (US$5.06 million base cost). This component had
five sub-components of which one was related to policy reforms.

                  Further Deregulation: The GOB agreed that, in addition to the removal of the BSB
                   monopoly on silkmoth egg supply, the reduction of the tariff on silk yarn to zero, and the
                   deregulation of cocoon prices, the BSB would (i) lease out up to 5 grainages (silkmoth
                   egg hatcheries); (ii) henceforth charge prices for silk moth eggs that cover the full
                   production costs, and (iii) restructure BSB/BSRTI.

                  Restructuring of the BSB (US$1.19 million base cost).            It was envisaged that
                   BSB/BSRTI would be restructured to provide quality research, training and extension
                   support services to the sub-sector. The restructuring program included scaling back
                   commercial activities, transferring of two silk mills operated by BSB to another
                   organization pending privatization, and redundacies of some 190 staff. These activities
                   were to be financed by the project together with the Technical Assistance (TA) to carry
                   out an organizational study and prepare a restructuring action plan.

                  Establishment of the SF (US$2.72 million base cost)           The project financed the
                   operational cost of SF on a declining scale, cost of TA required for business planning,
                   monitoring and evaluation, quality control, product and market development. In the early
                   years of the project the SF's operating costs were to be met by the project, but it was



                                                     - 3 -

               envisaged that after five years of its operations, it's recurrent expenditures would be
               financed out of surplus revenues from its grainage operations.

              Development of Rearers', Reelers' and Silk Weavers' Associations (US $0.12 million
               base cost): The project provided for the necessary TA and training to establish these
               associations considered necessary to represent the respective stakeholder interests within
               the SF.

              Textile Strategic Management Unit (US$0.40 million base cost): Established in 1989,
               the Textile Strategic Management Unit (TSMU) had evolved into an important policy
               making unit within the MOT. The project provided funds to enable the TSMU to
               continue its work, mainly in relation to the sericulture sub-sector.

(b)  Productivity Enhancement and Research Support (US$. 4.69 million total cost). This component
had four sub-components:

              Development of Research Capacity (US$1.65 million base cost). This consisted of two
               main activities: (i)   a contract research program (US $0.38 million) of extensive
               multi-disciplinary field studies to determine the causes of the gap between laboratory and
               on-farm silkworm productivity and output; and (ii) renovation of BSRTI's research
               facilities (US$0.43 million).     Funds were provided to renovate buildings, procure
               equipment and finance training of scientists to improve BSRTI's capacity to manage
               Germplasm Maintenance Centers (GMGs) and undertake collaborative research on
               improved sericulture practices.

              Germplasm Maintenance Centers (GMC) (US$0.76 million base cost).The project
               financed the renovation and equipping an existing GMC, construction and equipping of a
               new GMC to maintain new pure lines of silkworms in isolation from breeding centers,
               and TA to develop protocols, and initially for incremental staffing.

              Development of Grainages (US$1.80 million base cost). The project provided funds to
               renovate and re-equip five leased grainages to produce high quality silkworm eggs. The
               project also provided for a limited amount of TA to advise SF on grainage management,
               to meet operating costs of the grainages on a declining basis over five years, and
               purchase hybrid silkmoth eggs from abroad to test market response to high quality
               eggs.

              Pilot Bivoltine Cocoon Development (US$0.48 million base cost) To determine the
               feasibility of producing international quality bivoltine silk, as opposed to the poorer
               quality polyvoltine silk produced in Bangladesh, the project was to finance an integrated
               input-extension-credit-market package in partnership with a selected NGO or private
               sector organization with proven sericulture managerial expertise.

(c)  Technology Dissemination (US$2.70 million base cost) This component had four sub-components:

              Development of BSRTI's Training Capacity (US$0.94 million base cost) The project
               financed the upgrading of the training facilities at BSRTI, development of practical
               training modules to train trainers, and regional training for BSRTI and NGO staff.



                                                  - 4 -

                  Field Training Centers (US$0.85 million base cost) The project financed the costs of
                   establishing and operating field training centers (FTC) for rearers and reelers centered
                   around the grainages leased by the SF, and the associated incremental training costs.

                  Extension (US$0.36 million base cost) The project provided limited resources to cover,
                   on a declining basis, the incremental        costs to NGOs associated with recruiting
                   additional sericulture extension staff.

                  Demonstration of Chawki Rearing Technology (US$0.45 million base cost)                 The
                   practice of early stage rearing of the silkworms and then selling off the worms to late age
                   rearers is called Chawki rearing. The project supported the establishment of about 100
                   chawki units to demonstrate the benefits of using specialist rearers for the early stage of
                   silkworm rearing.

  (d)    Product Development and Market Promotion (US$0.28 million base cost). The project provided
  funds to the SF to contract professional services for training in the production of creative fashion designs
  to weavers, and to promote Bangladeshi silk products through fashion shows and publications.

  (e)    Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.17 million base cost). The project provided funds to finance the
  cost of establishing a monitoring and evaluation system in SF to anually monitor production and price
  parameters, in relation to data recorded by an initial baseline survey. In addition, the project provided
  funds for undertaking related special studies on market trends, and economic analyses.

3.4 Revised Components:

         At the Mid-term Review (MTR) several changes in the project components were made. Since the
component on restructuring of the BSB was moving slowly due to the wavering commitment of the MOT
and funds provided for redundancy payment was not being utilized, it was agreed with the Government that
funds (US$900,000 approximately) allocated for financing the redundancy program would be cancelled.
To demonstrate the benefits of improved post harvest handling and cocoon processing, it was agreed at the
MTR that the project would finance the establishment by SF of Vertically Integrated Units (VIU)
consisting of low cost driers and modern reeling equipment at two suitable locations. It was also agreed
that TA and training support to develop associations for rearers and reelers would be discontinued as the
NGOs were not cooperating with SF in this activity.             The Pilot Bivoltine Cocoon Development
sub-component was dropped as suitable organizations could not be identified to test the commercial
feasibility of this activity. By MTR, it was evident that sericulture productivity cannot be enhanced if
rearers continue to use mulberry leaves from road side trees. Good quality bush plantation if mulberry
needed to be undertaken to supply quality leaves for the silkworms. The project, in response to the demand
from the NGOs, supported the plantation of bush plantation on a cost-sharing basis.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         This is rated as satisfactory based on the criteria used by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
The criteria include project concept, objective and approach, technical and economic analysis, social and
stakeholder analysis, institutional aspects, readiness for implementation and risks and sustainability.

         (a)     Concept, Objective and Approach. This was an innovative project which aimed to test a
hypothesis that silk production can be commercially viable in Bangladesh.               The design included



                                                      - 5 -

strengthening and develop public, private and NGO partnerships to bring about efficiency in the sub-sector.
As such, it was correctly designated as a pilot project. The modest size (in terms of cost) of the project was
appropriate as the design required experimentation with new approaches before scaling up. The design was
predicated on relatively modest reforms that would build on the strengths, and not totally marginalize,
existing institutions supporting the sub-sector. Similarly, it aimed to consolidate policy reforms that had
already been initiated, and that were not expected to be controversial. However, on hindsight, it appears
that some of the assumptions were unrealistic. The project also assumed that, since the NGOs were
facilitating the development of women's silk activities, the need for a distinct focus on addressing the issues
of long-term sustainability of these enterprises would not be necessary. This assumption was also found to
be unrealistic.

          (b)     Technical, Economic and Financial           Analysis.  Extensive technical, financial and
economic analysis were undertaken during preparation and appraisal. The technical interventions were wide
ranging, reflecting the backwater status of sericulture in Bangladesh at the time, and the need for a massive
improvement in the technology used at all stages of production if the sector was to become competitive. To
assess the competitiveness of the sub-sector, Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) analyses was carried out at
appraisal. Financial Rates of Returns (FRR) were also estimated at appraisal for: Grainage operations,
Chawki (early stage) silkworm rearing, late age rearing of silkworms and Cottage basin reeling. The
appraisal of the project preceded the introduction of the Bank's Loan Accounting and Change Initiative
(LACI) guidelines. Therefore there was no formal financial management (FM) assessments of the
implementing agency and FM systems and controls at appraisal. stage.

          (c)     Social and Stakeholder Analysis. The design of all components of the project involved
extensive discussions with key stakeholders, such as the NGOs and private sector, engaged in sericulture
and silk weaving and marketing, micro-finance institutions, universities engaged in silk worm research and
development partners. Extensive field surveys and data was analyzed to confirm that sericulture was a
socially acceptable and financially viable activity for rural women.

          (d)     Institutional Aspects. The institutional mechanisms developed for providing improved
support to the sub-sector were generally satisfactory in the context of the difficulties associated with
institutional reform in Bangladesh. It was particularly important that the BSB was not to be abolished but
restructured under the project. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that privatization of the two silk mills
operated by the BSB was not made a condition of the project, as this was perceived to be politically very
sensitive, and that, it would be better addressed by the on-going policy dialogue of state-owned enterprise
reform. The project design team could have paid greater attention to the institutional assessment of NGOs
supporting this sub-sector, particularly the relationship between the smaller and the larger NGOs operating
in this area.

          The concept of the SF was based on comparable institutional initiatives in other sectors ( e.g. the
HORTEX Foundation established to promote horticultural exports) and the PKSF (established to provide
micro-credit), that appeared to be able to represent all stakeholder interests, and at the same time move
responsibility for sectoral development towards the private sector. The not-for-profit status of the SF was
judged appropriate, however weaknesses in the SF's Memorandum and Articles of Association (MAA),
specially the lack of provision for a General Body, from which the Governing Body (GB) would be
selected, led to a failure of all stakeholder interests to be adequately represented. This should have been
addressed at appraisal.

          (e)     Readiness for Implementation. As mentioned earlier, from the earliest days the project
was subject to extensive discussions with representatives of the MOT, BSB, BSRTI, and NGOs. Several


                                                      - 6 -

preparation mission were undertaken and these included stakeholder workshops. There was a reform
minded Minister and a Secretary in MOT who led the discussion on the project design and the reform
agenda. By appraisal, the GOB had already abolished the BSB monopolies on egg supply and no longer
fixed the price of cocoons, and by negotiations of the Credit for this project, the SF was legally established.
Based on these up-front actions, it is considered that the project was ready for implementation. Subsequent
changes in key management positions in MOT (particularly the Minister and the Secretary) which occurred
soon after negotiations could not have been anticipated at entry.

         (f)      Risks and Sustainability. While a wide range of risks were correctly assessed at appraisal,
some important ones were missed. Almost all risks bare linked to GOB's commitment to maintain and
continue with reforms, and/or commitment by major stakeholders i.e. NGOs to continue their support for
the project. At the time these commitments by GOB were judged to be firm as the Cabinet of Ministers had
endorsed the key reforms. Project sustainability was inextricably linked to many of these commitments,
notably to lease operational grainages to SF and the restructuring of BSB/BSRTI. The risks associated
with these politically sensitive actions were not clearly specified and adequate mitigation measures were
not identified. The likelihood of larger NGOs not supporting the development of producers organizations
was not highlighted as a risk. The fall in price of raw silk in the international market could have also been
identified as a risk.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Overall, the project has substantially achieved its stated development objectives. Keeping in mind
that it was a pilot operation and the scope of the project was scaled back considerably, this assessment has
been based not so much on the overall quantitative achievements but more on the lessons which were
learned from this operation. On a pilot basis, the project has clearly demonstrated that Bangladesh has the
potential to produce quality silk, and that sericulture can be an attractive income earning activity for rural
women. Prior to this project the silk sub-sector has been operating very inefficiently, despite efforts by the
government from 1960s and NGOs from the 1980s. The project has been successful in establishing some
parameters for a silk enterprise to become viable. It has provided knowledge on improved technology and
modern practices in research, extension, silkmoth egg production, rearing and reeling. The project has also
helped to address to a large extent, the distortions in the policy environment.

         Average cocoon yields from quality eggs exceeded expectations and income increase were on
target. Average cocoon yields increased, on average, by nearly 100 percent. Reeling productivity (measured
by renditta which is estimated by the amount of cocoon required to produce one kg of raw silk) indicated by
lower renditta has also improved from baseline figure of 18 to 13. Based on the independent evaluation
carried out by Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS), the project has succeeded in raising
the incomes of the silkworm rearers from Tk18-20 to Tk. 58-60 per day among the beneficiaries in the
sample survey, suggesting that productivity gains could be significant even in a situation of low domestic
prices. The survey found that producers who were able to use the new technology continued to adapt and
remain in production, while others who would not exited the industry. However, not surprisingly the
survey also found that despite the growth in income, sericulture continues to be only a secondary source of
income for the majority of the rearers. On the broader policy reforms anticipated under the project, there
has been considerable progress but only after closure of the project. This is detailed below.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                       - 7 -

(a)      Policy Reform and Institutional Development.

         The overall assessment of the achievements of this component is satisfactory albeit with some
delays.   The project has had a positive impact in initiating measures for improving the policy and
institutional framework for a modern silkworm industry in Bangladesh. Four BSB grainages were leased to
the SF. Two grainages were used for commercial production of good quality silkmoth eggs, one for
mulberry plantation nursery for the developing good quality mulberry saplings for sale to NGOs and the
remaining one for the field training center. BSB raised the selling price of silkmoth eggs.

         On the institutional front the project was able to achieve significant results within the Bangladesh
country context. Despite the opposition from the Collective Bargain Agent (CBA) of the BSB, the
Government succeeded in carrying out three major reform actions. Effective December 2001, the two silk
mills operated by BSB were closed and staff retrenched. BSRTI was separated from BSB and the legal
framework of BSRTI was amended to provide full autonomy from BSB. A major implication of this
separation is that BSRTI would now have complete access to the funds provided by the Government for
research and training instead of these being diverted to other areas as was the practice in the past. BSB has
also retrenched the services of about 80 staff financed from the development budget and 8 staff from the
revenue budget. In addition, BSB scaled down some of its commercial operations.

         The SF was established as planned, and continued to function satisfactorily throughout most of the
project. SF provided a forum for the NGOs, private sector and the MOT to exchange ideas, forge
partnerships and discuss issues related to the development of the sub-sector.             SF made available
international standard technical advice in the areas grainage management, rearing and reeling technology,
silkworm disease, germplans maintenance, dyeing and weaving technology which benefitted the rearers and
the weavers. SF responded fairly quickly to the NGOs request for assistance with the supply of mulberry
saplings and the development of bush type of mulberry tress on a cost-sharing basis. The lack of clarity
about the Chair of SF in the MAA affected the leadership of SF as there were frequent changes. There
some problems with the structure and composition of the GB, notably its failure to rotate members at the
Annual General Meetings (AGM). Prompt management actions regarding staff performance could have
contributed to better performance by SF.

         It was not possible to establish any of the envisaged producer associations, largely because of
resistance from the participating NGOs who viewed such organizations as trade unions which could be
politicized and not serve the interests of the poor women.

         The TSMU functioned throughout the project, but problems were experienced with the recruitment
of some of its consultants, The TSMU consultants, when recruited, provided objective advise to the MOT
and made useful contributions to the development of the Government's silk policy. The draft policy
document is under review by an inter-ministerial committee.

(b)      Productivity Enhancement and Research Support.

         The overall performance of this component is satisfactory. The Action Research Program (ARP),
though started later than planned, was able to determine quite convincingly the main constraints limiting
the productivity of Bangladeshi rearers, and the possibilities of improving the quality of raw silk through
the use of modern drying and reeling facilities.       It is expected that the NGOs will implement the
recommendations as their beneficiary groups participated in the ARP. The renovation of BSRTI's facilities
and procurement of most of the major equipment has been completed albeit after some delays.




                                                     - 8 -

         The GMC at Rajahahi was renovated as planned, and a new facility was constructed and equipped
at Sakoa. As there was some delay in completing the civil works and procuring the equipment, the facility
become operational just after project closure. Silkworm eggs of superior races were purchased from major
silk producing countries

         Two grainages leased from BSB were renovated and their associated mulberry gardens
rehabilitated. The quality of silkmoth eggs produced at these facilities has been good, production targets
exceeded, and production costs were within expectation.

         The project was unable to carry out the Pilot Bivoltine Cocoon Development feasibility study for
reasons mentioned earlier. On hindsight, the inclusion of this technical sub-component was possibly
premature since inter-disciplinary research capacity was still at a premature stage.

(c)      Technology Dissemination

         The overall performance of this component is considered to be mixed.

         The Extension Support Program (ESP) was considerably more successful than the training
support. Most of the NGOs engaged in sericulture participated in the ESP Some 3,200 new rearers were
trained in all aspects of rearing from mulberry cultivation to cocoon marketing. The implementation of the
Demonstration of Chawki Rearing (DCR) was somewhat delayed, but the outcome was successful. The
target number of 100 Chawki rearers was reached, and the results show convincingly that Chawki rearing
can raise cocoon production substantially.

The development of the BSRTI training capacity was disappointing. The TA retained to develop the
improved training program was ineffective. As a result, the institute was not been able to improve its
Training of Trainers (TOT) courses. The achievements of the Field Training Canters (FTC) were limited.
SF was able to establish an FTCs in only ONE location. As a result, SF was not able to organize training
for all the targeted number of rearers.
(d)      Product Development and Market Promotion

         The outcome of this activity was disappointing. The component was heavily dependent on a
phased series of TA inputs, namely market intelligence, product development and then promotion. Problems
with recruiting sufficiently qualified consultants and phasing of the inputs effectively nullified any
achievements.

(e)      Monitoring and Evaluation.

         The outcome of this component was marginally satisfactory. It was not until the third year of the
project that the benchmark survey could be commissioned. The methodology of the survey was complex,
covering too many non-silk indicators. Instead the SF instituted its own monitoring system or performance
tracking system based on a regular protocol of collecting field results either directly from rearers who had
purchased eggs, or from sponsoring NGOs. In late 2002, SF launched an independent evaluation study
which was based on a small, but in-depth field survey. This study confirmed substantial improvements in
cocoon production and income from rearing.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal using the base costs of the project components, excluding the costs of the BSB staff
redundancy payments, the project was estimated to have an ERR of 20%. Switching values of critical



                                                     - 9 -

items (decreasing benefits by 16 percent and increasing investment costs by 28 percent) would have
reduced the ERR to 12 percent. These estimates were based on the assumption that there would be a
substantial increase in demand for locally produced raw silk from 44 to 181 tons by the fifth year of the
project. The delays in the release of facilities by the BSB prevented the SF from producing enough quality
silkworm eggs until Year 3 of the project, and the collapse of the world market price for raw silk led to its
massive imports by local weavers. These factors resulted in a virtual stagnation of domestic output in
overall terms during the project lifetime. Under the circumstance, there did not appear to be any rationale
for recalculating the ERR.

         The DRC analysis indicated that the gains in productivity should lead to falls in DRCs sufficient to
justify the project. At closure, the DRC for rearing using improved technology is calculated to be 0.35
relative to India (with comparable silk quality) indicating that it is socially profitable to produce cocoons in
Bangladesh. When compared to China the DRC remains above unity. However, Chinese silk and
Bangladeshi silk are different products and the comparison is of limited value. DRC calculations for
reeling have not been undertaken due to lack of reliable data. The details of the analysis are presented in
Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         The FRR was re-estimated for grainage operations and silkworm rearing. The FRR for grainage
operations, using costs and returns data supplied by the SF projected forward for 10 years indicate an FRR
of 12 percent. This is substantially lower than 20 percent estimated at appraisal. It is, however, important
to note that the SF had to scale down operations considerably (for reasons mentioned earlier) and was
therefore was not able to achieve anticipated economies of scale. The FRR for silkworm rearing (all ages)
by project farmers using quality eggs supplied by the SF and improved technologies is estimated to be
14%, which is encouraging.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         BSB/BSRTI.        The delay in implementation of the reforms of BSB/ BSRTI affected the
development of BSRTI's research and training capacity under the project. It appears that the project team
underestimated the political difficulties associated with these reforms and depended too much on the
commitment of the Minister and Secretary of MOT. With hindsight, perhaps the project team could have
built in contingencies, such as allowing SF to lease an NGO grainage rather than only BSB grainages.
Perhaps more time should have been allowed for the reform program to be implemented. However, despite
the wavering commitment,        the MOT eventually became convinced of the need for the reforms and
succeeded in granting operational autonomy to BSRTI from BSB and shutting down the two silk mills.
Furthermore, MOT has just begun to seriously analyze the role that BSB can effectively play and
determine a reasonable budget to carry out the revised functions. This should have significant long term
benefits to the sub-sector as it will even up the playing field at all stages from rearing through to weaving.
The opportunity provided by the project for regional training for the BSRTI staff has helped to improve
their technical capacity. In addition, opportunity to work with international experts has also helped to
enhance their knowledge and procedures.




                                                      - 10 -

         Silk Foundation.      The project has clearly demonstrated that an autonomous and flexible
organization, like SF, operating on commercial principles, rather than a parastatal agency, is a model for
better providing of the kind of service support needed by the sub-sector. Although the SF could not become
financially independent during the project period, the reasons for this were beyond its control. By the end
of the project, the team in SF was better able to respond to needs of the stakeholders, improve the technical
and financial management of the grainages, and provide a forum for the organizations involved in silk
production to discuss the opportunities and challenges of the sub-sector. SF made a good start but more
time and support is required for SF to deliver its mandate.

         NGOs and Private sector. The impact of the project on the sericulture development program of
the NGOs has been positive. As a result of project intervention, overall the NGOs have been able to
increase the size of their sericulture program in terms of coverage, budget and technical staff. The smaller
NGOs have developed their technical and management capacity to deliver better services. The larger
NGOs benefitted from the extension management support provided by SF. Compared to NGOs, the impact
on the private sector has been less significant. A major reason is that the weaving segment of the industry
is done mostly by the private sector but the project interventions focused mainly on the upstream activities.
Nonetheless, partnership with SF helped the private sector to understand the complexities of the export
market, environmental issues and investment in improved design. The project did not finance any activities
likely to generate adverse environmental impacts. Training by NGOs helped with the appropriate handling
of formaldehyde. Monitoring of the environmental aspects were left with the NGOs and there were no
adverse impacts reported by the NGOs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         There were two factors which affected implementation. One was the collapse of the world price for
silk yarn. China dominates the silk yarn market internationally. Soon after the project started, the silk yarn
price fell very low as China reduced its price. This affected the rearing activities as the weavers had access
to cheaper silk yarn, thus reducing its demand for domestic yarn.       The second was the nature of NGO
operations, the buying price of cocoons, selling price for silkworm eggs, resistance to producers
organization affected implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        l MOT could have avoided the delay with the release of BSB facilities to the SF.                  The
             consequence of the delay was that the grainages could not be operational from the first year of
             the project and SF could not capture the market. The delay also led to investments by a large
             NGO to increase its egg production capacity. Thus SF lost a major share of the market for
             silkworm eggs before it even started operations. Subsequently this meant the SF was unable to
             become financially self-supporting from the sale of silkworm eggs.
        l Some problems were experienced early in the project with delays in the release of GOB
             counterpart funds for SF and BSRTI.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         The SF experienced difficulties in the timely recruitment of competent consultants. This was the
cause of some weaknesses in training and M&E. The guidance from the GB was not strong. The SF
needed to be more business oriented and proactive.            This could have been achieved by having
representation of the GB members with good knowledge of the sector combined with business and technical


                                                     - 11 -

acumen.

5.4 Costs and financing:

        At appraisal the total project cost was estimated at US$12.99 million of which IDA provided a
credit of US$11.35 million (SDR equivalent 8.30 million), GOB US$1.21 million equivalent , and NGOs
US$0.09 million equivalent. The SF and beneficiaries were to provide US$0.34 million equivalent. The
actual project costs at closure on June 30, 2003 were US$6.48 million equivalent. Withdrawals of the IDA
credit amounted to US$5.88 million equivalent (SDR equivalent 4.52 million) or about 83 percent of the
revised credit amount. Due to slow implementation progress, dropping/scaling down of some components,
on two occasions there were cancellations from the Credit. The first cancellation from the Credit amounted
to SDR 1.2 million equivalent on July 2001 and the second one was for SDR 1.635 million equivalent on
June 2002. On October 31, 2003 after the final accounting of the Credit was completed, the outstanding
balance of SDR 0.935 million equivalent was cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

        The sustainability of the project activities has been assessed based on the improvements in the
policy environment, diffusion of knowledge about improved technology and practices and not so much on
the sustainability of SF. As a result of the project, there is a greater understanding among the policy
makers and the private entrepreneurs on what are the factors for becoming competitive in this activity.

        The institutional and policy reforms (mentioned earlier) carried out by the government can be a
good indicator for sustainability. The productivity enhancement of the silkmoth eggs, improved grainage
management, training of rearers on improved rearing practices and technical and managerial support to the
smaller NGOs are likely to be sustained. It is also expected that the key reforms will also be sustained.
The increase in rearers' income would possibly be sustained as long as NGOs continue to support them
with quality silkmoth eggs and markets for good quality cocoons exist. This will only happen when the
demand for domestically produced raw silk increases, which in turn, is a function of the returns to reeling
quality yarn. There are concerns over factors that continue to discourage the use of domestically produced
raw silk. Although the project has demonstrated that improved yarn can be produced domestically at prices
below those of imported yarn, the volume of production and the reliability of supply remains uncertain and
weavers still prefer to use imported silk yarn. The next stage in the development of the sub-sector has to be
to expand the capacity of high quality domestic rearing.

        The future of the SF is yet to be determined. Without SF, one or two of the larger NGOs will
possibly be able to continue sericulture activities in a modest scale because these have grainage facilities,
but the smaller NGOs would have to terminate this activity.

        Based on the above, the project sustainability has been rated as Likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

        The MOT has made budgetary provision in the amount of US$0.6 million for the first year of
operations after the project closure, and has prepared a five year plan for a total of US$3.0. It is reported
that the MOT is also investigating the possibility of securing additional donors funds to support the
sub-sector, in the areas of extension and post-harvest operations. Steps have also been taken to secure a
credit window for sericulture. These developments, together with the institutional reforms recently would


                                                     - 12 -

seem to confirm some level of GOB commitment to sericulture but this is not enough to conclude that SF
will continue with its operations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         The World Bank's performance at this stage is considered satisfactory.            The Bank put a
considerable amount of thought, time and resources into the preparation of this project. Together with
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP), several missions were fielded during project preparation.
These missions participated in several stakeholder workshops to discuss proposed project components and
institutional reforms.

7.2 Supervision:

         The World Bank's performance during supervision is considered to be Satisfactory. Considerable
effort was exerted by the task team to advance project implementation in the face of sometimes unfavorable
environment with frequent changes in Secretaries of MOT having responsibility for implementation,
necessitating restarts of discussions on institutional issues. However, the task team persistently maintained
discussions with the borrowers on solutions for achieving development objectives of the project.
Supervision missions were regular and comprehensive up until the mid term review. In total, including the
MTR, there were nine supervision mission, at approximately six monthly intervals. The supervision
mission included a staff member from the New Delhi field office with extensive experience in sericulture.
The supervision mission composition (Annex 4a) for most of the project was the same resulting in a
remarkably consistent evaluation of the project. The supervision missions were proactive in making
suggestions for modest modifications of the project during implementation and in continuing to press for
institutional reform, but in a way that did not jeopardize the other components of the project. Regular
follow-up of audits by FM significantly improved the timely delivery of audit reports.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         Overall the performance of the Bank is considered to be Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The Borrower's role during preparation was highly satisfactory. It played an active and supportive
role during preparation. It formed a consultative group with major stakeholders, such as the NGOs and the
private sector to advise the Government with the project design. It used the Poverty and Human Resource
Development (PHRD) grant to commission useful studies. Up-front actions on some policy reforms,
mentioned earlier were taken by the Government.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         In contrast, the performance of the Government during implementation varied. Immediately after
the Credit for the project was negotiated in late 1997, there were changes in the leadership of MOT and
the new leaders did not demonstrate strong commitment to the project. They took little interest to
introduce reforms of support the SF. Only in the last eighteen months of the project, with yet another
change of management, support for the project and its aims increased noticeably again. The one-time



                                                      - 13 -

release of counterpart funds by the Government for SF activities helped to avoid any fund constraint.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         The performance of the SF has been satisfactory. It carried out procurement relatively with less
delays, except for the civil works part.       Introduction of a procurement core team had contributed
considerably in managing their procurement. SF could have been more proactive and perhaps have done
more on the business development aspects. The financial management system of SF was satisfactory with a
computerized accounting system, well defined policies and procedures and adequate internal control
arrangements in place. SF adhered to Bank procedures e.g. funds flow (including counterpart funds).
There was adherence to good accounting practice e.g. budgeting and general financial management,
including accounts preparation, reporting, compliance with standards, FM staffing and capacity. There
were some delays in submission of audited financial statements. Independent private auditor's reports on
SF were mostly received later than due dates. SF promptly responded to the audit observations and
succeeded in getting most of the observations settled.

         Initially BSRTI's performance was not satisfactory but it gradually improved. There were delays
in procuring goods/ equipment but most of the civil works and procurement of essential items were
procured by the Credit closing date. However, under the project this institute developed some procurement
capacity, which is likely to contribute positively in future. The BSRTI could have been more proactive in
developing a multi-disciplinary team for research and training. The Government auditor's reports on BSRTI
and TSMU components were received mostly on time with one time expectation. BSRTI also responded
promptly to audit observations and got those settled. The audit reports did not depict any major
accountable issue.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Overall the borrower performance is considered to be satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


         Several key lessons were learnt from the implementation of this pilot project in terms of impact of
the global market on the competitiveness of silk sub-sector, institutional reforms, women's entrepreneurship
development, merits of pilot project and institutional framework for innovative projects.

Competitiveness of the Silk Sub-sector
        l Bangladesh has good potential for sericulture and cocoon processing and can compete in a
             world market where the playing field is level and not dominated by China, as it is now. If and
             when China moves to the high end of the silk market as Japan has done. Bangladesh is well
             positioned to benefit.
        l Sericulture can provide an attractive income for the rural poor, but not necessarily for those
             who have no access to some land, or modest amount of finance (own equity or credit) needed to
             start the operations.
        l Sericulture as an activity depends on efficient downstream processing of cocoons and weaving,
             and will only be successful if there is vertical integration of all stages of the production chain.

Institutional Reforms
        l Initiating fundamental institutional reforms in a deeply entrenched bureaucratic structure is




                                                     - 14 -

             difficult and time consuming and should not be under-estimated at project design stage.

Pilot Project
        l Pilot projects, if well designed and supervised project, can be very successful in demonstrating
             new technologies and in supporting politically sensitive institutional reforms. Their particular
             strength being an ability to focus on important key details rather than concerns about rates of
             progress or disbursement.

Institutional Framework
        l Not-for-profit Foundations can provide the essential support services representing the interests
             of a range of stakeholders from small scale producers through to manufactures. However, there
             are problems in securing adequate autonomy for Foundations initially supported with
             government funds, and in attracting capable managers from the private sector.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Although the ICR was a core ICR and not an Intensive Learning ICR a group of partner NGOs were
invited to submit comments on the project. Key comments are listed below:

         1. The project has made a huge contribution to the sub-sector through the timely supply of quality
             silkworm eggs (disease free laying/dfl), leading to substantial increases in Cocoon output.
         2. Secondly the project has convincingly demonstrated the benefits of Chawki, and late age
             rearing.
         3. The project has also assisted in demonstrating the benefits from establishing mulberry gardens.
         4. Major problems remain with cocoon and raw silk marketing and post-harvest operations that
             the project did not have time to fully address.


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Improvement in reeling productivity           from 16 to 28 kg cocoons (per 100 dfl)         34 kg
Improvement in rearing productivity           from 18 to 12 kg cocoons per 1 kg of raw silk 11.5
Increase in average daily income of rearers   Tk 70 from Tk 40-Tk 70 per day                Tk 64/day
Create additional person days of employment 1.23 million days                               150,000 (lower than anticipated due to
                                                                                            reduced demand for domestic silk
Increase economic efficiency of silk
production as DRC :
-rearing                                      from 2.18 --> 0.77
-reeling                                      from 3.72 --> 0.59


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Governance of SF is democratic and                                                          Governance of SF partially democratic and
transparent according to the Memorandum                                                     transparent. Financial operations failed to
and Articles of Association of SF; SF's                                                     breakeven by closure.
financial operation breaks-even by Year 5 of
the project
At least 50% of the women producers whose                                                   Not fully achieved. Formation of associations
primary occupations either rearing or reeling                                               discouraged by participating NGOs.
are organized in the associations and are
empowered through access to training and
extension services. Representatives of these
associations are represented in SF.
Restructuring of BSB is completed with                                                      Restructuring completed, but not until project
stakeholder participation in its Governing                                                  closure.
Body by Year 1 of the project.
Total annual domestic output of raw silk to                                                 Decrease in domestic output over much of
increase from 29 tons in 1994-95 to 36 tons                                                 project period due to cheap imports of raw
by Year 5.                                                                                  silk yarn from China.

1 End of project




                                                                - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.89              0.10             0.00              0.99
                                      (0.00)             (0.79)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.87)
2. Goods                               0.05               0.65              0.42             0.00              1.12
                                      (0.05)             (0.44)            (0.28)            (0.00)           (0.77)
3. Services                            1.02               0.89              1.00             0.00              2.91
                                      (1.02)             (0.89)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (2.91)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.54             0.00              0.54
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.54)            (0.00)           (0.54)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              2.15             0.00              2.15
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.96)            (0.00)           (0.96)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               1.07               2.43              4.21             0.00              7.71
                                      (1.07)             (2.12)            (2.86)            (0.00)           (6.05)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Financial Analysis

         Table 1 presents budgets for control farmers (without project) and project farmers (with project).
The budgets are based on a 2002 Bangladesh Silk Foundation survey. Table 1 indicates that project
farmers have higher cocoon production, lower silkworm egg, mulberry leaf and labor costs but, as
expected, higher chemical and materials costs.

         Incremental returns (after labor costs) for project farmers are Tk 1,510 and the incremental returns
per person-day (before labor costs) is Tk 25.4. Total average returns per-person-day (before labor costs)
for project farmers is Tk 63.7 and compares with the unskilled person-day wages of Tk 44, Tk 30 and Tk
15 for male, female and child person-day wages respectively.

         Table 2 presents a financial analysis of silk rearing by project farmers over the period 1998 to
2007. This scenario depicts the financial analysis of project farmers who started with the project in 1998.
The FRR (before labor costs) is 56% with a NPV of Tk 14,424 and a person-day labor return of Tk 64 in
2002 increasing to Tk 81 in 2007. The FRR (after labor costs) is 13% with a NPV of Tk 427.

         Table 1. Bangladesh Silk Rearing Enterprise Budgets: Control and Project Farmers, 2002
                                                      Control Farmers                 Project Farmers
                                                      (Without Project)               (With Project)
Investment Costs (Tk)
 Rearing Room                                               3,000                           7,000
 Equipment                                                  1,500                           3,000
Total Investment Costs                                      4,500                          10,000
Revenue
 Cocoon Production (kg)                                        92                             112
 Cocoon Price (Tk/kg)                                           76                             76
 Cocoon Sales Revenue (Tk)                                  6,992                           8,512
 Fuelwood Sales (Tk)                                          300                             402
Total Revenue                                               7,292                           8,914
Operating Costs (Tk)
 Silkworm Egg Cost                                            664                             359
 Chemicals, Materials                                         514                           1,814
 Mulberry Leaves                                            1,940                           1,432
 Depreciation (Rearing House @ 10%/yr.)                       300                             700
 Depreciation (Equipment @ 10%/yr.)                           150                             300
Total Operating Costs                                       3,568                           4,605
Labor Costs (Tk)a                                           3,073                           2,148
Total Operating & Labor Costs                               6,641                           6,753
Returns (Tk)
 Returns (Before Labor)                                     3,727                           4,309
 Returns to Labor (Tk/person-day)b                           38.3                             63.7
 Returns (After Labor)                                        651                           2,161
 Incremental Returns (After Labor)                             -                            1,510
 Incremental Returns/Person-Day                                                               25.4
Source: Bangladesh Silk Foundation 2002 survey of Control Farmers (Without Project) and Project Farmers (With
Project).
         a Control Farmer labor person-days of 17 male, 74.6 female and 5.8 child and Project Farmer labor



                                                     - 18 -

          person-
            days of 15.2 male, 46.2 female and 6.2 child valued at Tk 44, Tk 30 and Tk 15 per person-day
          respectively.
          b Total Control Farmer person-days of 97.4 and Project Farmers person-days of 67.6.


          Table 2. Bangladesh Silk Rearing Model: Scenario I Financial Analysis (in 2002 Taka)

                                              Actual                                 Planned
                                                 1998                           199920002001200220032004200520062007
Investment Costs (Tk)
 Rearing Room                                    7,000                                                               000000000
 Equipment                                       3,000                                                               000000000
Total Investment Costs                          10,000                                                               000000000
Revenue
 Cocoon Production (kg)                             92                                       97102107112115118121124127
 Cocoon Price (Tk/kg)                               76                                                   767676767676767676
Cocoon Sales Revenue (Tk)                        6,992                    7,3727,7528,1328,5128,7408,9689,1969,4249,652
 Fuelwood Sales (Tk)                               300                                      325350375402402402402402402
Total Revenue                                    7,292                  7,6978,1028,5078,9149,1429,3709,5989,82610,054
Operating Costs (Tk)
 Silkworm Egg Cost                                 664                                      590515440359359359359359359
 Chemicals, Materials                              514                      8401,1651,4901,8141,8141,8141,8141,8141,814
 Mulberry Leaves                                 1,940                    1,8131,6861,5591,4321,4321,4321,4321,4321,432
Depreciation-Rearing House                         700                                      700700700700700700700700700
 Depreciation -Equipment                           300                                      300300300300300300300300300
Total Operating Costs                            4,118                    4,2434,3664,4894,6054,6054,6054,6054,6054,605
Labor Costs (Tk)                                 3,073                    2,8432,6132,3832,1482,1482,1482,1482,1482,148
Total Costs
Operating & Labor                                7,191                    7,0866,9796,8726,7536,7536,7536,7536,7536,753
Invest., Operating & Labor                      17,191                    7,0866,9796,8726,7536,7536,7536,7536,7536,753
Returns
Before Labor Costs                              -6,826                    3,4543,7364,0184,3094,5374,7564,9935,2215,449
Tk/Person-day Return                                 -                                                        ---646770747781
After Labor Costs                               -9,899                      6111,1231,6352,1612,3892,6172,8453,0733,301
Financial Analysis
Before Labor Costs
FRR%                                              56%
NPV @ 12% (Tk)                                  14,424
After Labor Costs
FRR%                                              13%
NPV @ 12% (Tk)                                     427
Source: Control farmer coefficients (from Table 1) are used for 1998 (since there was little project activity in the first project
         year). Actual coefficients for 2002 (from Table 1) have been used. Coefficients for 1999 to 2001 are assumed to
         increase or decrease linearly between 1998 and 2002. The coefficients for 2003 to 2007 are set equal to 2002
         coefficients with the exception that cocoon production continues to marginally increase.




                                                             - 19 -

Domestic Resource Cost

The concept of domestic resource cost (DRC) provides a measure of the opportunity cost (in terms of
domestic resources) of providing a net marginal unit of foreign exchange. DRC analysis involves
calculating a DRC ratio A/(B-C), where A is the social value of non-traded inputs used to produce one
unit (i.e., kg) of the commodity (fixed land and capital costs expressed as the return to capital and land
and, labor costs using a shadow wage rate), B is the social value of gross output (value of output at border
price x shadow exchange rate) and C is the social value of traded inputs used to produce a unit of the
commodity (value of inputs at border price x shadow exchange rates).

The DRC ratio is used as a cost-benefit ratio; if the DRC ratio is less than 1, then it is socially profitable to
produce the commodity, if the DRC is greater than one, it is not socially profitable. The DRC ratio only
provides information in terms of efficiency and does not include other considerations such as welfare, risk
and security.

The analysis calculates two DRCs for cocoon rearing: (i) Bangladesh relative India (Table 3) and (ii)
Bangladesh relative China (Table 4), as opposed to a traditional analysis of Bangladesh relative to the
World. The reason is to demonstrate the difference between the two types of cocoons from Bangladesh and
India that are of similar type and produce similar quality silk and the cocoons from China which are of a
different type (bivoltine) that produce a higher quality silk.

Cocoon Rearing DRC Ratios

Bangladesh relative India: The results (DRC = 0.35) indicate that, if the current technology used by the
project farmers were used by all silk cocoon rearing farmers in Bangladesh, it is socially as profitable to
produce Bangladesh cocoons as India cocoons. Bangladesh cocoons are produced efficiently (less than one
taka of real resources are used to produce one Taka of value added measured in terms of opportunity cost).
There is a comparative advantage for cocoon production in Bangladesh of the type and quality produced.
Thus Bangladesh should produce cocoons and should expand cocoon production (provided foreseeable
prices, costs, level of demand and exchanges rates do not radically change).

Bangladesh relative China: The results (DRC = 1.65) indicate that, if the current technology used by the
project farmers were used by all silk cocoon rearing farmers in Bangladesh, it is not socially profitable to
produce Bangladesh cocoons of the quality and type produced to compete with the quality and type
produced by china. To compete with china, it is likely that the type of production (type of silkworm and
quality), production techniques and the scale of production would have to radically change. It is basically a
different market.

Raw Silk Production DRC Ratios

A DRC ratio was not calculated for Bangladesh raw silk because of lack of quality data. Furthermore, the
technology transfer to make the industry more efficient is in its beginning stages. The DIDS (2002) study
reported a DRC ratio of 1.44 for production of raw silk. However, it may be too early to come to
conclusions about new technology and its effect on the comparative advantage of Bangladesh raw silk
production.




                                                    - 20 -

             Table 3. Domestic Resource Costs for Cocoon Production: Bangladesh Relative India


                                           Bangladesh            Conversion      India Social Value of Gross
                                            Domestic               Factor       Output and Opportunity Cost
                                         Production (Tk)                         of Domestic Resources (Tk)
1. Green Cocoon Price/kga                      76.0                                         147 = (B)
2. Non-Labor Input Costs/kg
   Cocoon Productionb
   a) dfl eggs                                   3.2                2.00                       6.4
   b) Mulberry Leaves                           16.2                1.00                      16.2
   c) Disinfectants/Kerosene                    12.8                0.90                      11.5
   d) Depreciation Costs                         7.4                1.28                       9.5
Total                                           39.6                                       43.6 = (C)
3. Net Value Added (1-2)                        36.4                                       103.4 (B-C)
4. Labor Costs/kg Cocoon                        19.2                0.85                      16.3
Productionc
5. Capital Cost/kg Cocoon                       20.1                0.98                      19.7
Productiond
6. Total Labor + Capital Cost                   39.3                                       36.0 = (A)
7. DRC = A/(B-C)                                                                              0.35

a Bangladesh average green cocoon price. The social value of gross output calculated as the border price of
  Indian green cocoon of Rs. 155 adjusted for difference in renditta by factor of 0.69 (imported cocoon of
  8 renditta relative to domestic renditta of 11.6) adjusted for shadow exchange rate of 1.37.
b Bangladesh dfl eggs, mulberry leaves and disinfectant/kerosene costs from BSF silk project farmer survey in
  2002. Dfl egg conversion factor of 2 based on domestic eggs sold at 50% of actual production cost. Other
  conversion factors from BIDS May, 2003 Final Report (page 31).
c Person-days labor/kg of cocoon production estimated at 0.136 male, 0.41 female and 0.055 child person-days
  (from BSF silk project farmer survey) at wage rates of Tk 44, Tk 30 and Tk 15 for male, female, and child
  person-day wage rates (wage rates from BIDS May, 2003 Final Report). A conversion factor of 0.85 (from
  Shahabuddin, 2000) is used to obtain the wage bill in terms of a shadow labor price.

d Return on capital = (Net Value Added  Labor Costs) x a conversion factor for capital of 0.98 (following the
  procedure in the BIDS May, 2003 Final Report).




                                                        - 21 -

             Table 4. Domestic Resource Costs for Cocoon Production: Bangladesh Relative China


                                               Bangladesh           Conversion         China Social Value of
                                                 Domestic              Factor            Gross Output and
                                             Production (Tk)                            Opportunity Cost of
                                                                                      Domestic Resources (Tk)
1. Green Cocoon Price/kg                           76.0                                       66 = (B)
2. Non-Labor Input Costs/kg
   Cocoon Productiona
   a) dfl eggs                                      3.2                 2.00                    6.4
   b) Mulberry Leaves                               16.2                1.00                    16.2
   c) Disinfectants/Kerosene                        12.8                0.90                    11.5
   d) Depreciation Costs                            7.4                 1.28                    9.5
Total                                               39.6                                     34.1 = (C)
3. Net Value Added (1-2)                            36.4                                    22.2 = (B-C)
4. Labor Costs/kg Cocoon Production                 19.2                0.85                    16.3
5. Capital Cost/kg Cocoon Production                20.1                0.98                    19.7
6. Total Labour + Capital Cost                      39.3                                     36.0 = (A)
7. DRC = A/(B-C)                                     -                                          1.62


a Bangladesh average green cocoon price. The social value of gross output calculated as the border price of
  China dried cocoon of US$ 5.30 adjusted for difference in renditta by factor of 0.207 (2.4 green cocoon/
  renditta relative to domestic renditta of 11.6) adjusted for shadow exchange rate of Tk 60/US$.

b Bangladesh dfl eggs, mulberry leaves and disinfectant/kerosene costs from BSF silk project farmer survey in
   2002. Dfl egg conversion factor of 2 based on domestic eggs sold at 50% of actual production cost. Other
   conversion factors from BIDS May, 2003 Final Report (page 31).

c Person-days labor/kg of cocoon production estimated at 0.136 male, 0.41 female and 0.055 child person-days
  (from BSF silk project farmer survey) at wage rates of T 44, Tk 30 and Tk 15 for male, female, and child
  person-day wage rates (wage rates from BIDS May, 2003 Final Report). A conversion factor of 0.85 (from
  Shahabuddin, 2000) is used to obtain the wage bill in terms of a shadow labor price.

d Return on capital = (Net Value Added  Labour Costs) x a conversion factor for capital of 0.98 (following the
   procedure in the BIDS May, 2003 Final Report).

References:

Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies. 2003. Evaluation of the Silk Development Project: Final Report.
Dhaka.
Shahabuddin, Quazi. 2000. Assessment of Comparative advantage in Bangladesh Agriculture. Bangladesh
Development Studies, Vol XXVI, No. 1, March, pp. 37-76.




                                                        - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/26/1996

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/08/1998


 Supervision
              09/03/1998                7    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
                                             SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); SERICULTURIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             OFFICER (1)
              03/10/1999                7    TASK LEADER (1); SR.             U               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1); FIN. MGMT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              08/19/1999                8    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             SERICULTURIST (1)
              03/06/2000                9    TASK LEADER (1); CO-TASK         S               S
                                             LEADER (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1); FIN. MGMT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1); PORTFOLIO
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             SERICULTURE EXPERT (1)
              04/12/2001                4    TASK LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             SR.AGRICULTURIST (TTL)
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)



                                              - 23 -

               12/01/2001              5   TL (SR OP OFFICER) (1); SR         U    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           ANALYST (1); INS DEV
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               08/25/2002              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                           OFFICER (1); INST. DEV.
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SERICULTURIST (1)
               03/05/2003              6   TASK MANAGER (1); SR. FM           S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                           (1); SR. PROC. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); INST. DEV. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); SERICULTURE
                                           SPECIALIST (1)




 ICR
               10/30/2003             4     TASK MANAGER (1);                      S
                                            SERICULTURIST (1);
                                            AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  1. Evaluation of Silk Development Project, Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies, May 2003.
  2. Implementation Completion Report of Bangladesh Silk Foundation  September 2003.
  3. Implementation CompletionReports of TSMU and BSRTI, August- September 2003




                                              - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments to the ICR




                                       - 28 -

                               Comments of the Ministry of Textiles on the
   Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on Silk Development Project (Credit 3004-BD).


Consolidated comments of the Ministry of Textiles on the draft ICR on Silk Development Project are as
follows:

1.0     Sub-title 3.3 (a), bullet Nor. 5 : Textile Strategic Management Unit

        The second sentence under above sub-title stated, "the project provided funds to enable TSMU to
        continue its work mainly in relation to the sericulture sub-sector".

        It may be mentioned that the objectives of TSMU were to provide Technical Assistance to the
        Ministry of Textiles (MOT) in relation to:

        a)       Formulation of textile sector policies, which would promote export diversification and
                 enhanced value addition in the modern textile, handloom and sericulture sub-sectors;

        b)       Develop effective linkages among the various conflicting sub-sectors of textile industry;

        c)       Continuous operation of MIS and restructuring of BSB/BSRTI etc.

        It appears from the above objectives that continuation of TSMU was not only to work mainly in
        relation to sericulture sector, but also for integrated development of modern textile sector of
        Bangladesh. So, the second sentence of Sub-title 3.3 (a), bullet Nor. 5 should be re-phrased in the
        light of the objectives of TSMU to read as follows :

        "The project provided funds to enable TSMU to continue its work in relation to modern textiles
        sector as well as the sericulture sub-sector".

2.0     Sub-title 3.4 : Revised Components

        At the MTR, other than establishment of Vertically Integrated Unit by BSF and discontinuation of
        Producers' Associations and Pilot Bivoltine Cocoon development Components, another new
        component namely "Mulberry Development" was also agreed upon that should have been
        mentioned in this para.

3.0     Sub - title 3.5 (a) : Concept, Objective and Approach

        From the very beginning the idea was to set up a limited company, which would subsequently
        become viable/profitable at the end of the project period. As to how a research project involved
        mainly with the development and research on silk could become viable and profitable as a private
        company was never questioned at any stage by the World Bank. The basic philosophy of
        developing a limited company to provide extension services and conduct research profitably was
        probably putting the entire basis of the project on a wrong footing right at the very start. Unless, of
        course, the World Bank had similar experiences elsewhere in the World. The Bangladesh
        Government in the Ministry of Textiles only went along with the World Bank's train of thought as
        laid down in the Project Appraisal Document prepared by the World Bank Team. This aspect of
        the project has not been mentioned in the draft ICR.


                                                    - 29 -

    The way the draft has been proposed, it would appear that the GOB, the MOT, the BSF, the
    BSRTI and everyone else involved on the Bangladeshi side are all to blame for whatever failures
    the project has had, while at para 7 clause 7.1 it has been stated, "The World Bank's performance
    at this stage is considered satisfactory. The Bank put a considerable amount of thought, time and
    resources into the preparation of this project project". Again at para 7.2 it has been started the
    "The World Bank's performance during supervision is considered to be Satisfactory" (capital "S"
    has been used). It would appear that while most aspects relating to project implementation have not
    achieved their envisaged targets, the only item of expenditure that would appear to have achieved
    100% utilization is the Overseas Consultancy Components. Nine Supervising Missions came and
    went at regular intervals. One fails to see the logic behind putting all the reasons for failure on the
    Bangladeshi components. The consultants should have pointed out the inherent shortcomings in the
    philosophy of the project also.

    However, the statement at page 10 para 4.5 Silk Foundation States "The project has clearly
    demonstrated that a non-profit organization operating on commercial principles, rather than a
    parastatal agency, is a much better way of providing the kind of service support needed by the
    sub sector".

    This statement would appear to be sweeping generalization. The activities and outcomes of this
    project, do not go to support the above statement. In hindsight, it is quite obvious that a project for
    providing extension services and under taking research set up as a company, which then will also
    be "a non-profit company" is a contradiction in terms, to put it mildly. We therefore, agree with
    all the comments at para 3.5 (a) at page 5/6.

4.0 Sub-title 4.2 (a) : Policy Reform and Institutional Development

    In para 3 of Sub-title, it has been stated that "The first Chair was the Secretary of MOT who was
    fully committed to the project design and the policy reforms indicated in the project. However,
    when the Secretary MOT was transferred to another Ministry, he was not allowed o continue as
    the Chair and MOT compelled the GB of SF to select the new Secretary as the next Chair. This
    action compromised the autonomy of the SF, and inhibited the full participation of other
    stakeholders".

    It may be recalled that the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in consultation with the World Bank
    sponsored the Silk Development Project. The first Chair was the Secretary of MOT who acted on
    behalf of the GOB and the Secretaries who subsequently hold the Chair of the GB of Silk
    Foundation also acted as the representative of the GOB. The ICR should not specifically mention
    that the Secretary who held the first Chair was fully committed to the project and it is implied by
    this statement that other Secretaries were non-committal to the project. So, this issue should not be
    mentioned in the ICR.

    Secretaries are always subject to transfer in accordance with their line of duty. Casting aspersions
    about one particular Secretary as component to other need not be made. It is debatable whether
    some other Chairman would have made the performance more successful

5.0 Sub-title 5.2: Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
    Bullet Nor. 1 : "The failure of the MOT to effect the separation of the BSB and BSRTI during the
    project had a major inhibiting influence on the project throughout its implementation. This is


                                                 - 30 -

    because it gave rise to considerable uncertainty over the MOT policies for the sub-sector and in
    particular the future of the BSB. This in turn, led to doubts about whether the SF would be able
    to fully undertake its mandate".

    It may be pointed out that the World Bank imposed a precondition for de-linking BSRTI from BSB
    at the last leg of implementation of SDP, as GOB failed to implement the restructuring program of
    BSB. GOB was committed for de-linking BSRTI from BSB, but it took a considerable time in
    completing the legal formalities involved in implementation of the de-linking tasks. However, the
    Government has succeeded in de-linking BSRTI from BSB in July 2003 i.e. immediately after
    completion of the project. So, this statement should be re-written accordingly or fully omitted.

    Bullet Nor. 3: "The failure of the MOT to prevent the BSB selling silkworm eggs at below
    production cost throughout the project has also had a detrimental effect on the operation of the
    SF"

    This statement is not true and may be omitted.

    Bullet Nor. 4: "The occupation of the position of Chair of the GB of SF by the Secretary of the
    MOT for the period 1998 to 2000 inhibited the autonomy of the SF to appoint its own leader".

    In view of the comments given in Sl. Nor. 3.0 this statement should be dropped from the ICR.

6.0 Sub-title 7.6 : Implementing Agency
    Para-2 : In para-2 it has been stated that "BSRTI's performance was not satisfactory. BSRTI
    made substantial delays in procuring goods/equipment. However, under the project this institute
    developed some procurement capacity, which is likely to contribute positively in future".

    At the point of time when BSRTI has completed partial procurement of some equipment including
    two vehicles and when all the formalities for procurement formalities of the remaining goods and
    equipment were completed, IDA imposed a precondition in February 2001 to the effect that
    implementation works of BSRTI (civil construction, equipment/goods etc.) will remain held up
    until restructuring program of BSB/BSRTI is implemented. Due to imposition of this condition by
    IDA, implementation works of BSRTI (civil construction, equipment/goods etc.) remained held up
    until February 2002 resulting in overall delay in achieving the objectives of BSRTI components of
    the project.

    So, if para - 2 is kept in the ICR, the reasons for delay in procuring goods and equipment should be
    mentioned.




                                                 - 31 -

- 32 -

