Document of
FIwLE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2079-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A                   nR.T    9
PROPOSED LOAN                              TO
TO                 REPORTS DESK
THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR THE
BRASOV BEARINGS PROJECT
May 16, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1. Official Rate
lei 4.97   =   US$ 1.00
leu 1.00   =   US$ 0.20
2. Tourist Rate
lei 12.00   =   US$ 1.00
leu -1.00   =   us$ o.o8
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
lei 20.00   =   US$ 1.00
leu  1.00   =   US$ 0.05
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COFACE    -   Compagnie Francaise D'Assurance Pour
Le Commerce Exterieur
ECGD      -   Export Credit Guarantee Department
HERMES    -   Hermes Kreditversicherings-Aktiengesellschaft
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INVESTMENT BANIK OF ROMANIA,
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANI',
FOR THE BRASOV BEARINGS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$38 million, to help finance a
bearings project. The loan would have a term of 13 years, including three
years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic memorandum for Romania (818a-RO) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on December 29, 1975, and an agricultural sector
survey (953a-RO) was circulated on November 15, 1976. A basic economic
mission visited Romania in October/November 1976 and its report is under
preparation. Preliminary findings of this mission are incorporated in this
report. Country social and economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Since the founding in 1947 of the People's Republic of Romania,
which in 1965 was reconstituted as the Socialist Republic of Romania, economic
management has been organized along socialist principles which have included
state and cooperative ownership of almost all productive resources, and the
absence of private enterprise. Economic activity is directed by means of
obligatory development planning, coordinated by the central authorities.
Productive enterprises operate within the framework of the development plan
which defines the scope of their activity, the outlines of their production
and investment goals and their targets for operating efficiency. The plan is
elaborated within a five-year time frame, each year having a separate Annual
Plan. The country began its latest Five-Year Plan in January, 1976.
4.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. En-
terprises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which
is controlled through a system of physical production and financial targets.
Production enterprises generally are not authorized to engage directly in
foreign trade and rely on specialized foreign trade enterprises for this
purpose. In agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the pre-
dominant units of production.
5.        Economic development is of paramount concern to the Romanian Gov-
ernment. Rapid industrialization is a major objective with priority being
given t heavy industry including steel, engineering products and chemicals.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
To achieve their growth objectives, the Romanian authorities have made consid-
erable efforts to mobilize domestic resources for development and to maintain
a high rate of capital formation. In the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan, planned and
actual investment rates of around 30 percent of GNP were the norm. As a
consequence, consumption has been restrained, and the development of the
consumer goods industry has been less strongly emphasized than that of heavy
industry. In 1975, heavy industry (led by engineering and metal working,
chemicals and ferrous metallurgy) accounted for about 61 percent of industrial
production.
6.        As a result of this strategy, a marked change has been achieved in
the structure of Romania's economy. Rapid industrial growth, which over the
last decade has averaged more than 13 percent per annum, has expanded the
share of the labor force employed in industry (including power and construc-
tion) from about 14 percent in 1950 to approximately 40 percent in 1975.
During the same period, the share of labor force engaged in agriculture has
declined from 74 percent to around 38 percent; and while agricultural output
almost tripled, its share in GNP amounted to only 15 percent in 1975.
7.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, more than half
of the population (about 57 percent in 1975) still lives in rural areas and
agriculture remains a key sector of the economy. Apart from supplying food,
industrial inputs and the residual labor increment for industrial growth
(which requires an expansion in agricultural productivity), the sector also
supplies about one quarter of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. These earnings, which are largely used to buy imported inputs for in-
dustry, have often been jeopardized as a result of unstable production growth
in agriculture. The maintenance of the industrial development program, there-
fore, is dependent on the performance of the agricultural sector.
8.        Romania's population growth is around one percent per annum.    Thus,
the impact of rapid economic growth on per capita incomes has been only mar-
ginally diluted by the population increase. In the last decade, GNP growth
has averaged nine percent per annum, implying a growth of about eight percent
per annum of per capita GNP. It is estimated that GNP per capita in 1975
was US$1,300 based upon official national income information and using the
World Bank Atlas methodology.
9.        The organization of production in both the urban sector and in agri-
culture is such that all labor is employed and there is no open unemployment.
There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus, mainly in agriculture. Income
distribution is also relatively equal. In 1975, average monthly wages were
1,813 lei (over $90 equivalent) up nine percent over the previous year. About
87 percent of all monthly wages in 1975 were within the range of 1,300-2,500
lei. Four percent were under 1,300 lei and about nine percent were above
2,500 lei. Prices for essential consumer goods and services such as basic
foodstuffs, rents and urban transport are relatively low and most social
services, notably education and health care, are provided without charge.
Standards of living, while still modest, have been increasing because of the
rapid growth of national income. Romania also pursues an active regional
policy which has sought to bring a balanced development of both human and
natural resources to all parts of the country.



- 3 -
10.       The official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1 is used only for
accounting purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per
US$1, having been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974.
Beginning in July 1973, a trading rate of lei 20 per US$1 has been used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representa-
tive of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange. The rate of lei 20
per US$1 has a'zo been used to convert national income statistics from lei to
dollars. Consequently, this rate has been used as the base rate for calcula-
tion in the appraisal.
Recent Developments
11.       Since the National Party Conference of 1967, which set the stage
for major qualitative advances in Romania's economic and social development,
there have been important new emphases in Romania's economic management.
Measures were taken to improve the institutional basis of planning (e.g. by
creating centrals to assist in plan administration), to increase the effi-
ciency of economic management and to improve the quality of products in
industry. In agriculture efforts were made to raise productivity and
stabilize growth through irrigation, mechanization and the expanded use
of chemical fertilizers. To promote the growth of foreign trade and
technical-economic cooperation the Government has concluded trade and
cooperation agreements with a wide range of countries. In this context,
Romania has also made positive efforts to expand its multilateral external
relations and to pursue full cooperation with international agencies, in-
cluding UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, FAO, UNIDO, GATT and more recently, the IMF
and the Bank.
12.       Measures aimed at continued improvement of the management system
include a reorganization (involving a reduction from 217 to 95 in number)
of industrial centrals and a concentration within the centrals of all plan-
ning, control and research functions. The pursuit of purely physical goals in
production and trade, while still an important element in the system, is being
supplemented by much greater emphasis on production and investment efficiency,
product quality, pricing and foreign competitiveness. To eliminate wasteful
investment and production expenditures, a Superior Court of Financial Control
has been established, among other things, to oversee a new system of financial
control.
13.       Foreign trade has expanded rapidly in recent years both in volume
and in regional diversity. There has also been a tendency to move away from
trade on a bilateral basis toward trade involving multilateral payments.
During 1971-75, total foreign trade grew at approximately 18 percent per
annum in current prices. In 1975, however, after the very rapid growth in
the value of trade of 33 percent in 1974, trade grew by only 6.6 percent,
with exports increasing by 9.6 percent to US$5.34 billion and imports by 3.9
percent also to US$5.34 billion. This slower increase in 1975 was explained
chiefly by the floods of July 1975 which resulted in a smaller exportable
surplus of agricultural goods and necessitated cancellation of some imports.
About 54 percent of 1975 trade was with the convertible currency area. Over-
all current account deficits have generally remained small; in 1975 the
deficit was only US$135 million, while the deficit with the convertible
currency area was US$260 million. In recent years, imports from eastern



- 4 -
European socialist countries have been slightly lower than Romania's exports
to that region. In Romania's trade with western industrialised countries, on
the other hand, exports have typically been considerably less than imports.
These deficits have generally been increased by deficits on the invisibles
account with western countries.
14.       The structure of Romania's trade with the developed market economies
remains essentially unfavorable. Raw materials and agricultural commodities,
both of which are subject to unstable price and production conditions, com-
prise about 60 percent of total exports to these countries. At the same time
imports from these countries are largely of machines and equipment and other
manufactures. Because of the present low level of reserves, any instability
in export earnings, as frequently arises from shortfalls in agriculture (para-
graph 7 above), tends to place the import program in immediate jeopardy.
15.       Preliminary results for 1976 indicate that most major targets of
the 1976 Annual Plan have been met. National income rose by 10.5 percent,
gross industrial production increased by about 11.5 percent, and gross agri-
cultural production was a record, exceeding the flood affected 1975 level by
17.2 percent. These achievements were realized despite a lower than planned
investment growth rate (8.2 rather than 19.4 percent). The volume of trade
increased less than plan targets, but a reported overall trade surplus of
US$40 million was attained because of measures to economize on imports. In
November 1976, Romania's National Assembly approved the country's 1977 Annual
Plan and Budget, which calls for continued high rates of growth. National
income is expected to rise by 11.3 percent and gross industrial production
by 10.5 percent. The Plan provides a range of 1.9-3.6 percent growth for
the gross farm output. This wide range is provided because of the uncertain
impact climatic conditions might have on production. Investments in the
national economy are expected to increase by 16.7 percent and total foreign
trade volume by 15.5 percent. Insufficient information is available to assess
the full impact of the earthquake in March 1977. The Government has announced
that production targets for 1977 will be met and that no revisions of the
annual plan will be made. While it is possible that planned production levels
will be attained, it is likely that replenishment of the damaged capital stock
will take longer and require additional resources and/or diverting of invest-
ment resources from new projects.
16.       A campaign to increase efficiency in the utilization of existing
capacities and to effect significant economies in the consumption of raw
materials and intermediate goods is being implemented throughout the economy.
Targets have been established to reduce by 30 percent the previously antici-
pated construction and erection costs of industrial projects between 1976-80.
Substantial, but as yet unspecified, savings have also been prescribed for
most other industrial inputs during 1976-80, while the global production
targets as set in the Five Year Plan remain unchanged.
External Assistance
17.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to



- 5 -
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by bor-
rowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism.
Gross inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-term loans
were US$946 million in 1976, consisting mostly of financial and suppliers'
credits with relatively short repayment periods. This gross inflow repre-
sented a net inflow of some $312 million after accounting for the country's
repayment obligations.
18.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has als caken active steps to attract long-term pri-
vate capital. A -eguiation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under which
foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises, prefer-
ably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of January 1977,
seven joint venture agreements had been signed. In contrast with the first
six which were of a small scale involving total direct foreign investment of
about US$10-15 million, the seventh agreement which was signed a few months
ago with Citroen, involved a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million)
of which 49 percent is direct foreign investment. Romania also receives
medium-term trade credits from U.S. Eximbank and trades under ECGD, COFACE,
and HERMES credit guarantees with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal
Republic of Germany, respectively. Romania succeeded in securing a US$60
million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agree-
ment and more recently a $50 million Eurodollar loan. In addition, Romania
has access to non-convertible currency investment credits from the Interna-
tional Investment Bank, Moscow.
19.       As it stands Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the only major source of
such long-term development finance, though Romania is making efforts to
improve its access to the major financial markets. The Bank's presence on
a significant scale would have a positive influence in this regard and might
serve as a catalyst for involving other lenders in Romania. This could
serve both to increase the total amount of Bank-sponsored funds available to
Romania and to build outside confidence in the country, thereby enhancing in
the long-term its independent access to the world's financial markets.
Prospects
20.       The 1976-80 Five-Year Plan reflects Romania's continued strategy
of rapid growth. Investment rates of some 30 percent of GNP are to be main-
tained, and the major thrust is in industry. The plan targets are impressive.
National income is expected to grow at 10-11 percent per annum and gross
industrial output by 10.2-11.2 percent per annum, with more rapid growth in
heavy industry    than in consumer goods.  Continued emphasis is to be placed
on foreign trade which is expected to double in real terms, with the aim of
securing a continued transfer of technology needed for the modernization and
diversification of Romanian industry and the raw materials required by indus-
try. Greater emphasis than in the 1971-75 Plan is to be given to developing
the infrastructure in agriculture, particularly with regard to irrigation
and drainage and the plans for fertilizer production envisage an increase in
supply sufficient to double the 1974 application rates by 1980.



21.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.    Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. In order for Romania to attain its growth
objectives, however, it will have to rely on a major expansion of exports
of manufactured goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an
increasing dependence on imported raw materials and fuel.
22.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient use
of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The in-
creasing diversity and complexity of Romania's economic structure require
continuing improvements in the efficiency of economic planning and coordina-
tion and further refinements in economic management. To keep up with these
-changes and requirements, large programs of education and manpower training
have been mounted, investments in scientific and technological research have
been emphasized, and-efforts are being made to strengthen technical coopera-
tion with industrialized countries and international organizations.
Creditworthiness
23.       As of December 1976, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to US$3,095 million. Most of these debts (US$3,023 million)
were denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
Germany, France, UK and Italy. While the total debt does not appear excessive
in relation to the volume and growth of external trade, average maturities are
relatively short and convertible debt service payments are estimated to be
in the order of US$550 million a year during 1975-76. The convertible debt
service ratio was approximately 14 percent in 1975. The corresponding figure
for 1976 is estimated to have been about 19 percent and is expected to be 18
percent for 1977.
24.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of
a development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$2,839
million in 1975, and are estimated to have been about US$3,250 million in
1976. The preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the European
Communities in June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such exports as is
the granting of most favored nation status by the U.S. In 1973, the Government
also restricted the use of short-term credit facilities from western suppliers
in an effort to improve the structure of the country's external debt. Assuming
a continuation of present export and debt management policies we estimate that
the debt service ratio will remain around 20 percent during the implementation



-7-
of the Five Year Plan 1976-80 and decline thereafter to about 15 percent by
1985. The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of both its
domestic growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for continued
development, all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy for sub-
stantial Bank lending.
25.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With regard to the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S.
claims began in September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon
agreements reached in May 1'75. Settlement of British claims proved more
difficult, but a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank has
also been informed recently of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans
from the pru-war period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests
suJin as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War.
The eleventh and most recent meeting to discuss these claims was held in
Bucharest in October 1976. The Romanian and Swedish authorities ha.e also
dealt with this matter in April 1977 in the context of more general discus-
sions of bilateral trade, and further discussions are planned at a date to
be established through diplomatic channels.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
26.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's eleventh to Romania and would
bring total Bank commitments to Romania to US$558 million. Disbursements
under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this situation
improved considerably during 1976. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of
March 31, 1977.
27.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will ex-
pand foreign exchange earnings or savings. Bank lending also aims at sup-
porting the Government's efforts to introduce new industrial technologies to
improve the quality of products and production efficiency, to reduce produc-
tion costs and to provide for necessary electric power development. Market
aspects and marketing, especially for export goods, are also emphasized.
Special attention is given to agriculture which is heavily dependent upon
favorable weather and where productivity levels are still comparatively
low.
28.       With regard to the prospects for future lending, projects for irriga-
tion, pork and poultry production and grain storage are being processed in the
agricultural sector, while in the industrial sector projects for the produc-
tion of glass fibers and polyester fibers are scheduled to be presented to the



- 8 -
Executive Directors soon. Future lending in the power sector will be based on
a least cost development study which is being prepared by the Government.
29.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for Romanian officials in Belgrade in October 1973 and in Buc;,arest in January/
February 1975, November/December 1975, January/February and October/November
1976. Additional courses, including one in agricultural project appraisal,
are planned.
30.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for ex-
ternal financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer term convertible finance
from other sources. The disbursed IBRD debt outstanding to the Bank is
expected to constitute about 12 percent of Romania's total projected con-
vertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service
payments in 1980 would be about 3 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Industrial Development
31.       Performance of Romania's industrial sector during the last 25 years
has been impressive and great efforts have been made to transform a nation
that once specialized in the exportation of raw materials into a country with
a strong and broad based industrial sector. Large capital investments at
annual rates in the order of 30 percent of GNP have been concentrated on basic
and heavy industry, particularly on fuel, electric power, metallurgy, machine
building and chemicals and have resulted in a rapid expansion and diversifica-
tion of industrial output. During the last five year plan gross industrial
output increased by about 85 percent surpassing significantly plan targets.
Growth in the chemical, engineering and metal working, and ferrous metallurgy
sectors has been the fastest with production about doubling.
32.       In the process of this impressive development the industrial sector
of Romania has assimilated in a relatively short period of time vast amounts
of technology and know-how, and it is assuming a sophistication with which it
is increasingly capable of solving complex technical problems and producing
products that require a high degree of technological achievement. One of
the comparative advantages of Romanian industry is its relatively low-cost
skilled and unskilled man-power, supported by well organized training programs.
33.       Industrialization will remain the first priority of development
both in the 1976-80 five year plan and in the longer run with output expected
to grow seven fold in the period 1970-1990 (or roughly 10 percent per annum).
While previously growth was often achieved at sacrifice of quality, efforts
for quality and productivity improvement are more evident now. Internally,
the areas of major emphasis will be manpower planning and development, growth
in technological capabilities, industrial modernization and central efficiency



- 9 -
auditing. By applying the most advanced scientific methods and by stressing
scientific organization of manpower, substantially more value will be in-
corporated per ton of product. The thrust of the sector's development will
continue to be the growth of the chemical, engineering, metal working and
ferrous metallurgy sectors.
Industrial Organization
34.       At present nine industrial ministries are responsible for the indus-
trial sector in Romania. Subordinate to each Ministry are several foreign
trade enterprises, research and design institutes and a number of Centrals,
which in turn direct the activities of a group of related enterprises. The
work on overall design and supervision of projects is delegated by each Min-
istry to one of its research and design institutes. In case of the proposed
project it is being designed and engineered by the project enterprise's and
the Central's Engineering Department in close collaboration with the Design
and Research Center for Bearings and Fasteners and the Central Research
Institute for Machine Tools. The enterprises, Centrals and Design Institutes,
which have not been authorized to trade abroad (see also para 4 above) con-
duct their foreign business through the foreign trade enterprises which
normally belong to the same Ministry. In the case of the Brasov enterprise
which falls under the Ministry of Machine Building, however, exports are
handled by TECHNOEXPORTIMPORT which does not belong to the same ministry but
to the Ministry of Foreign Trade.
Bearing Industry
35.       Romania enjoys some important advantages that have favored the de-
velopment of a domestic bearings industry. First, the country has a large
number of disciplined, well trained and skilled workers available at wages
which are substantially below those paid in developed countries. Second,
even though bearings are a precision product, the industry, until recently,
used relatively simple and easily available machine tools. Third, in recent
years the Romanian domestic market has been large enough to support volume
production of selected bearings. And finally, due to the very large variety
of products involved in this industry, inventory and/or production costs can
be reduced if a reasonable degree of certainty of demand and supply can be
assured, which the Romanian system of centralized planning can generally do.
These factors help the country to develop a competitive bearings industry.
36.       The Romanian bearings industry started in 1949 on a relatively
small scale with knowhow largely developed in Romania, and has since then
experienced an impressive development. In 1975 Romania's bearings industry
produced in its four plants (Brasov, Birlad, Alexandria and Ploiesti) about
71 million bearings valued at the equivalent of approximately US$95 million.
This production met about 86 percent of the country's own bearings needs,
while 22 million bearings (31 percent of production) were exported. The Gov-
ernment invited two well known foreign firms to help establish large modern
production facilities at various locations and negotiations have recently been
concluded with a foreign partner for the supply of advanced technology needed
to produce special bearings not yet manufactured in the country. This policy



- 10 -
of combining locally developed skills with foreign knowhow and technology
is expected to provide also in future a favorable basis for this expanding
industry.
Market and Marketing
37.       The primary industrial bearings consumers in Romania have histori-
cally experienced rapid growth with annual consumption increases over the
last 15 years of about 15 percent. Consequently, the majority of bearings
produced has been consumed in the country and the balance was exported. Of
the exported bearings a substantial share has been and would be continued to
be sold under medium to long-term contracts with COMECON members or leading
bearings producers in Western Europe and Japan. A high growth in domestic
demand for bearings is likely to continue; however, increases are expected to
be below historical figures due to the lower planned growth of the overall
economy. The Romanians expect that about half of their export revenue will
come from COMECON countries and the other half from convertible currency
areas. The share of domestic consumption is forecast to decrease from 69
percent in 1975 to about 57 percent with exports increasing accordingly. Tin
view of historical growth rates of domestic consumption of 15 percent per ycal
versus a projected increase of only 7 percent, this forecast is considered
conservative and does not adequately reflect expected growth rates of major
bearings consuming industries in the country. It seems more likely that
domestic consumption will be higher and exports less than projected if the
national economy indeed grows at the rates planned for the 1976-1985 period.
Imports of bearings will continue to be limited to high precision bearings
needed for use in sophisticated machinery, aircraft and other advanced equip-
ment, and other bearings which are not produced locally.
38.       Distribution of bearings within the country falls under the respon-
sibility of a warehousing enterprise which maintains warehouses at each plant
and in each region of the country. The responsibility for the export of
bearings lies with TECHNOEXPORTIMPORT, a state owned foreign trade enterprise.
TECHNOEXPORTIMPORT, however, until recently maintained no overseas offices
devoted mainly to bearing sales or warehouses to provide quick services to
customers, which is not considered optimum for exporting precision and price
sensitive products like bearings. Romanian authorities are aware of this
unsatisfactory situation and are currently implementing a major reorganization
of the marketing system which would, inter alia, provide for the establish-
ment of overseas sales offices and assure closer cooperation between TECHNO-
EXPORTIMPORT and the Central (Section 4.01(b) - Loan Agreement). This
improvement, combined with higher product quality after project completion
is expected to have a favorable impact on achievable export prices.
39.       The project enterprise at Brasov produced in 1976 27.8 million
pieces with the largest mix of bearings amongst the Romanian producers.
In general more than 70 percent of its production was so far sold locally.
Projections up to 1985 indicate that sales to the domestic market will be
increased from 22.5 million pieces in 1975 (79 percent of total) to about
36.5 million (69 percent of total) pieces in 1985. Another 17 percent will
be sold to COMECON countries under long term sales contracts and thus only



- 11 -
about 14 percent of the total volume would be sold to market economies, some
of it through the partner for the production of the needle and cardan bearings
and part of the rest through bilateral trade arrangements.
The Borrower
40.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for invest-
ment projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including
water resources) and food processing. It has a large technical and economic
staff with branch offices in all districts of the country. The Investment
Bank's involvement in investment projects commences in the preparation phase
of a project; its staff appraises all major investment projects technically
and financially and recommends approval or otherwise of their financing to
the Council of Ministers. When a particular project and its financial plan
has been approved by the Council of Ministers, all funds are channeled through
the Investment Bank in accordance with the approved financial plan. All pay-
ments for the execution of a project have to be authorized by the Investment
Bank which keeps separate accounts for each category in the financial plan for
every enterprise. It is the Investment Bank's obligation to ensure that a
project is executed according to the financial and technical data included in
the final technical and economic study approved by the Council of Ministers.
Its inspectors check whether the project is proceeding according to the
schedule approved in the Plan.
41.       While the Investment Bank's supervision and control function is
thus rather strong during the implementation phase of a project, its functions
are much more limited during the operational phase of a project. Although it
has the right and obligation to verify that the enterprise is meeting the
targets set in the investment plan, it has no legal authority to influence
directly the management of the enterprise or to force the enterprise directly
to take operational actions which it considers necessary. In practice, how-
ever, it can request such actions very effectively by reporting through the
Ministry of Finance to the Government.
42.       The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing, but its own funds for onlending as credits are still
relatively small. Its prime source of funds is the State Budget. The Govern-
ment will ensure the availability of sufficient funds including foreign ex-
change requirements for the implementation and operation of the project (Sec-
tion 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement). The Guarantor will ensure that the
Investment Bank can meet the debt service on the Bank loan.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was identified in April 1975 and appraised in May 1976
on the basis of a technical and economic study prepared by the Design and
Research Center for Bearings and Fasteners of the Ministry of Machine Build-
ing. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1977. The Romanian
delegation was led by Mr. Diamandopol, President of the Investment Bank. A
loan and project summary and supplementary project data are given in Annexes
III and IV.
Project Description
44.       The proposed project will increase the production capacity of an
existing bearings factory at Brasov from 20 million to 33.5 million bearings
and will allow the manufacturing of a wider range of bearings of signifi-
cantly improved quality. The project consists of two distinct and technically
separable components: (a) erection of a modern, fully automated high volume
production line (the High-Volume Component) with an annual production capacity
of 5.5 million bearings; and (b) modernization and expansion of low volume
facilities (the Low-Volume Component) to reach a final capacity of 28.0
million pieces of a relatively heavier product mix. In addition, necessary
auxiliary facilities like utilities and general maintenance shops as well as
physical infrastructure would be expanded to support increased production.
The high and low volume components would share a common forge shop, a ball
shop, a roller shop and a small retainers shop which are also included in
the project. Not part of the Bank financed project is the expansion of the
production of needle, cardan and special bearings, which is now being imple-
mented with the assistance of a major international manufacturer of bearings.
45.       The High-Volume component of the project has been specifically
designed to produce bearings needed in large numbers and on large production
runs permitting the use of specialized equipment and a high degree of auto-
mation. The component is technically well conceived and is comparable to
new plants being developed elsewhere. The Low Volume component would produce
a much greater variety of bearings in relatively short production runs and
in a wider range of sizes; it would therefore be equipped with more flexible,
general machining and grinding equipment. The assembly and inspection opera-
tions, as also most of the material handling and machine loading, would be
manual. These differences would make the Low-Volume component's relative
labor requirements higher than the High-Volume component in which productivity
is expected to be much higher.
Product Mix
46.       The choice of production process and the productivity of a bearings
plant are to a large extent determined by the product mix to be manufactured
and the general trend in developed countries is towards production of a
limited range of similar bearings in long production runs wherever possible.
Under the Bank financed High Volume Component it is planned to produce in 1985
about 5.5 million bearings in up to 10 sizes and under the Low Volume component
28 million bearings in 230 sizes. The product mix for the High-Volume line is



- 13 -
comparable to that of most modern bearing plants under development elsewhere
while the relatively large variety of bearings produced on the Low Volume
production line reflects the Government's efforts to drastically reduce import
of those bearings which the country is capable of producing and which are re-
quired only in smaller quantities. The Government has agreed to review the
proposed product mix of the Low volume Component and would form an industrial
engineering group to carry out this review as one of the group's first tasks
(Section 4.01 (a) (ix), Loan Agreement).
Labor Force
47.       Brasov Enterprise has currently 6,280 employees working in opera-
tions which will be expanded under the proposed project and originally had
planned to increase this number by 1,244 to 7,524 persons in the course of
project implementation. Since it appeared that these projected labor needs
were considerably above international standards, the Bank has made specific
recommendations for changes in layout and labor practices in some key plant
areas and proposed a general revision of expected labor needs. This review
has been initiated and initial reductions in planned work force of about 200
men have already been made. The continuing labor review will be completed by
March 31, 1978 by the above mentioned industrial engineering group (Schedule
2, Part DI, Loan Agreement).
48.       The training of workers is well organized at Brasov, which runs a
large training school next to the plant. Other institutions such as vocational
and engineering schools run by the Government provide well trained supervisors
and skilled technicians. Brasov Enterprise had worked out a detailed program
to ensure that all required skills are available on time. These arrangements
are considered adequate.
Project Execution
49.       Physical implementation of the project started in January 1977.
Completion of the Low-Volume component is scheduled for December 1981 and the
High-Volume component for December 1980. The Brasov Enterprise will have the
primary responsibility for project design, engineering and implementation,
and has on its staff personnel with prior experience in executing similar
projects. The plant facilities will be constructed by the Enterprise for
Erection of Special Industrial Buildings, a construction trust under the
Ministry of Machine Buildings; the trust was responsible for erecting other
bearings plants and thus would be well suited for the assignment. The pro-
curement of imported equipment is being handled by six foreign trade enter-
prises, coordination of which is in the hands of UZINEXPORTIMPORT, a major
state owned foreign trade enterprise. Equipment and services to be supplied
from within Romania and financed from the Government's own resources will be
procured directly by the Brasov Enterprise.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       Total cost of the project is estimated to be the equivalent of
US$87.8 million. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$38.0 million



- 14 -
or 43.3 percent of the total including the foreign exchange component of goods
likely to be procured in Romania as well as the cost of directly imported
goods. The appraisal cost estimates allow for physical contingencies at 7.4
percent. The local cost component, based on fixed Romanian prices, is not
expected to require revision during the project implementation period; for
imported equipment a price increase of 22.0 percent during project execution
has been assumed.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of US$38 million would finance the project's
foreign exchange cost. The remaining project cost would be financed by
Romanian sources. The loan would be repayable over 13 years including a grace
period of 3 years. It is Romanian practice for the State to invest virtually
all funds in such projects through the Investment Bank without formal onlend-
ing agreements and to recover investment costs from project beneficiaries
through a variety of financial mechanisms including net income transfers from
state enterprises, taxes and depreciation payments. For this reason the
Investment Bank would not actually relend the Bank loan to the enterprise.
However, the enterprise would be the beneficiary of the Bank loan and its pro-
vision of funds to the State Budget and Investment Bank would be sufficient
to cover the lei equivalent of the debt service on the Bank loan including
(notional) interest at 10 percent (Section 4.01 (a)(viii) of the Loan Agree-
ment). This arrangement is in line with our practice in previous projects.
Audit
52.       Romania has developed a fairly elaborate control and audit system,
under which enterprises submit periodic operational and financial reports to
their Central, the Technical Ministry and the banks concerned. The Centrals
and the Technical Ministry, as well as a special unit in the Ministry of
Finance and the National and Investment Banks conduct extensive audits of
these reports to ensure achievement of Plan targets and proper use of funds.
Similar to arrangements under previous loans, the Bank would receive quarterly
and annual project progress and financial statements from Brasov Enterprise
and copies of annual audit reports prepared by the Ministry of Finance (Sec-
tion 4.01 (a)(iii) of Loan Agreement). As in case of previous Bank loans
the Investment Bank would submit its annual financial reports along with the
Ministry of Finance audit reports.
Procurement
53.       Procurement of the equipment financed by the Bank would follow in-
ternational competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Bank Guide-
lines except for items not exceeding $1.7 million in total value which cost
less than $100,000 each or are unsuitable for international competitive bid-
ding for technical reasons. Agreement has been reached, that certain specific
items of machinery and equipment, spares and related services, which are con-
sidered critical to the technical viability of the project, will be imported
unless the Bank should otherwise agree (see Supplementary Letter circulated
with the legal documents). In an attempt to save foreign exchange the Govern-
ment is expected to make every effort to limit foreign expenditures on the



- 15 -
project and to replace imports by locally manufactured goods; however, it has
been agreed that such changes in the source of supply would only be made with
the Bank's concurrence and only if such changes would not technically weaken
the project. A total of $31.5 million has been allocated under the loan to
cover the -ost of these agreed imported goods and services. It has been agreed
that, if tile agreed list of imports can be procured for less, or if some goods
and services are shifted from the import category to local procurement, the re-
sultant reduction in the foreign exchange cost of the project (taking into ac-
count the possible increase in the foreign exchange component of domestically
procured goods incorporated in the project) would be reflected in a correspond-
ing cancellation of part of the loan. Other goods and services totalling about
$6.5 million also required for the project will be procured with Romanian sup-
pliers participating in international competitive bidding. For purposes of
bid comparison the normal 15 percent preference would be applied to the local
bid. Prequalification on the basis of bid advertisement was initiated in
February 1977 and most bids are expected to be received between August 1977
and February 1978.
Disbursements
54.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of the foreign
cost of imported equipment, spares and services, and 100 percent ex-factory
cost of locally supplied goods and services. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. A schedule of expected disbursements is given
in Annex III.
Environment
55.       A Romanian law for environmental and pollution control, passed in
1973, stipulates that all industrial enterprises must conform to environ-
mental and workers safety standards. These standards are considered adequate
and in line with regulations elsewhere. The Brasov Enterprise conforms with
these regulations except for inplant air quality and noise levels in the forge
shop, ball shop and primary machining shop. Necessary provisions have been
made under the project to develop new facilities in conformity with the speci-
fied standards and to upgrade the working conditions in all existing facilities
at least up to the minimum requirements (Section 4.01 (a)(i) Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
56.       As mentioned in para 35 above, Romania is well-placed to develop a
competitive bearings industry. Its basic advantage lies in low total labor
costs, particularly considering the total absence of strikes; the possibility
of long-term production planning, allowing detailed production and delivery
scheduling for the full year in advance and facilitating reasonable capacity
utilization; and the almost total absence of domestic marketing costs repre-
senting some additional savings. These favorable prospects are only to a
minor degree affected by the deficiencies noted in export marketing (see para
38 above) since a relatively high portion of the project's output is expected
to be sold domestically or through long term bilateral trade arrangements (see
para 39 above).



- 16 -
57.       The project would bring about substantial foreign exchange savings
which are of particular importance in the context of the Romanian economy.
Thus, while the project would require a foreign exchange investment of about
US$38 million, it would save foreign exchange of about US$49 million per
annum after project completion. In addition the project would create about
500 additional jobs in the Enterprise and generate additional income to the
state budget of about Lei 350 million per year after foreign debt service.
58.       Under the project the quality of Romanian bearings would be sub-
stantially increased, thereby improving the competitiveness of the bearings
industry in world markets. Indirectly it would also improve the quality of
machinery, machine tools, automobiles and other industrial goods in which
bearings are a small but critical part. The project would make Romania more
self-sufficient in bearings and introduce at the Brasov Enterprise latest
production technology.
59.       The economic rate of return of the project is a satisfactory 15.6
Dercent composed of an 22.1 percent return of the High-Volume component which
accounts for about 14 percent and one of 14.2 percent for the Low-Volume com-
ponent which accounts for about 86 percent of the base costs. This return
would remain satisfactory (13.2 percent) even in the unlikely event of a 50
percent drop in export volume (or prices) to market economies, which due to
the low share of exports is equivalent to only an approximately 5 percent drop
in total revenues. It would decrease to 14.1 percent in case of a project
cost increase of 10 percent or to 14.3 percent in case of a 5 percent produc-
tion decrease.
60.       The risk of not attaining project benefits is moderately low.    The
process and technology being adopted for the project components have been
successfully used in other parts of the world for many years and also in other
enterprises within Romania. Moderate risks exist for possible delays in proj-
ect completion and for cost overruns due to increases in the cost of imported
items, in case the Government tries to accommodate such increases by shifting
some items from imports to local supply, it may increase technical risks but,
as mentioned in paragraph 53 above, such shifts would require the concurrence
of the Bank. The major consumers of bearings in Romania are committed to buy
the agreed output at fixed prices through the mechanism of the Five Year Plans
and planned sales to centrally planned economies are also assured through
COMECON agreements. The major market risk is linked to the export to Western
countries; however, considering the small proportion of bearings to be ex-
ported to convertible currency countries (by volume about 15 percent of
Brasov's production in 1980-1985 and less by value), its impact on the Enter-
prise's total revenues and profitability is small. Therefore the project's
overall market risk is considered acceptable and the project would remain
viable even if exports to the western countries should drop to zero.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romanla, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of Romania and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
62.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex IV.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 16, 1977






Id
1.S                                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wa &Z s 1
-,  Ca ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ m
a.  0-        a'!  ala 
1. go  go,  a-.... ...  as..  cc0 0C       C .CC C- C   I CC C C Cs e
*  CC  --awa-  a  ma-.  C  C.,.  C O O  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
-  soW                                     C                  .C    
ax% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
M  .                                                                 a t -   0W C  I,Z 
o ~~~~~~*  ~ ~ ~ -. M-1 aa 40I
-  a-  ao  aa...n~~~~~~"   at C w W ~ -.  o   0   C   'W  C  c
S  em  -n              a~~~~~~2Dz  W a a  .41  -                o.M
Ca-  -.                           -~~~~~~~~~~~a :-  I - V  s       a 
XSC  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~~~~O  M.a
a.  a  a.  *  a@  *~~~~~~ma-n  Ca  a-  CC.  C  . .  . . .  -u.s~~~~~C) C   -e  CC CC   *CweaCr.. oo   a
a- a  Oem  *  en  -  ma  n  CC  -w  -.  -- o: s-M,  CCC  Lcwl  _-SP  -W.  a,
CS  *S  -                         CC..  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft  1 *   `-0 .~- I I   S.-
a-i.                                                               aa~~~~wz oab-%. V   0  1  w
-.  S                                                                a~~~~ .  :-.  ee  M1 
C.  S                                                               a~~~~~~O V6  l.I
2S  a-  a                                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0P 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ca-S     J   I



ANNEX I
Pag. 2 of 3 pages
Unl1s ot1herwia. noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 anLd for Moot Recent Estimace between
1973 an   1975.
Estimaite sceed on official date and Bank Aicao methodology.
eeThe Federal Republic of Germany has been selected ms an objective country because it is induatrialized European counitry with major trade ties
with Rosanio.
e Th. calculation, of the.e figur.e io under discuaston.
RLR4ALNIA              1960    /a  1962;     /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force:          /c   Hospitals only, excludes
eanitaria and maternity homee.
1970    /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          /b  Hospitals only, excludeaseanitaria and
maternity, home;      /c  1966;     /4   masida only.
MOST RECMf ESTIMATE:       Li 1970-75;      /b   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          /c  Hoepitals
only, excludes sanitaria and maetrnity hones;        /d   1969-71 average;     /e  UYnadjusted, 1974-75
enrolnmenta taken as a percetage of the 6-l1e and 15-19 age groupa roeepctively of mid-1974
population;     L.f  1974, official estimate is 100 percet.
YUCOSLAVIA             1970    /.  Agriculture land held by social sector 'Kabimate';          /b  Agriculture land held by prtvate eamll-holdeme '10
hecturee nadimuom"     !.c  Including nidwiveas, assistant midwives, assistant nurses and niursing auxsilaries.
ITALY                 1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod ovr to total labor force;          /b  Hospital personnel.
CE9MAN4Y FED. REP,     1970    /a  Total, urban and rural;        b  Inaids only.
R15, April 25, 1977
DRPIHMONa C0? SOCIAL ThOICATORS
Land Ar-a(thoum   2                                                                      Popuiatin pear nursing person - Popultion divided by number of practicing
Total1   Total surface area capritng loand area ad Island -atam.                          male and fate graduate ounc, "tranad" or         ce-tified' nurses, and
Agrit.   M ost recent eatimats of agricultural are.avusd temporarily or Pocu-              auxiliary personne with training or experience.
meatly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie follow.                 Population oar hoasital bed - Population divided by n-sb.r of hospital beds
available in public sod Private general sod specialised hospital and
GNP per capita (US$) - GNP Per capita estimates at current ,market Prices,                 rekhoilitation centars; excludas turning boom sod eetablihlxsen      for
calculated by same converion - thod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 b.oia);                 custodial and preventie care.
1960: 1970 and 1975 data.                                                             Par capita supply of calories (% of reouiremseto) - Ccmp.ted frm energy
squtoalnt of noar food auppliss avail.bla in country per ..pita per day;
Populatioa and vital statistic!                                                               I aiablatoupplies cmspri.s dussa.tic production, imports teas exports, and
Ponclacioc (mid-year million)    As of July first: if not evailable, averge                changes in atock; net supplies sonlode animal feed, seeds, qus.ttti.. used
of t-  nnd-yeur estimates: 1It60, 1970 and 1975 dots,                                    in food processing and losse.s t distribution; raquirements wer.esctimated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normalI activity and health conaild-
Population density- par Squsre be - Mid-year population per square kilomter                ering enrviroruantal temperature, body msights, age and se. distributions of
(100 hector.e) of total area.                                                            Ppoplatien, and allowing 101 for wst. cc housebold level.
Population density -per square Ix, of altric. loand - tCsputd as  babv  far              Per capita supply of protein Canins oar day) - Protein con.tan  of Per caPita
agricultural land only.                                                                  net supply of food per day; me t suppl  of food is defined as above; require.
ments for all counstrias eatablished by USDA Econoic Research Services
Vita1 statistics                                                                           Provide for a miniusus allow,ance of 60 gras of total protein per day, sed
Crudo birth rats per thousand. -crage - Annual live births per thousamd of                 20 greas of animal sod pulse Protein, of which If grra   should be animal
oid-y..r population; ton-year arithemetic evrgseding i. 1960 sod 1970,                   pro tein; theas standards ore losr then those of 75 grasv of total proteis
sod flve-yoar -vrag. seding in 1975 for most recent estimate,                            sod 23 grase of animal protein as an everage for tha unrld, propoead by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand, overage - AnnualI death. per thousand of mid-year           in the Third World Pond Survey.
population; tao-year orithusetic averages ending In 1960 ond 1970 sod five-            Per capita protein supply free animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
ynaraverage onding in 1975 fon oust recent estimate,                                     derived free animale and pulses in gram per day.
Infant mortality rots (/tho.) - Annual deaths of infants under on   year of age          Death rate (/thou) agss 1-4 - Annual1 deaths per thousan.d in age group 1-i.
per thousand lIve births.                                                                yearst, to chIldren in thie age group; ewageated ae on i.dicot.r of
Life ..pOct...y at birth (yr.) - Av-rege nnacer of yssrs of life remaining st              malnutrition.
birth; ususlly five-year averagcs ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing cocre.Education
r... r-pr-duction rate - Av-rogn number of liv    daughters. a va    w .Ill bear         Adjusted snroll,unt ratio - primary school - Enr.llmest of all ages as pa-
Ic her norml -productiv- pnriod if she e.periences present age-specific                  centgeg of primary school-age population; inc ludes children aged 6-11 years
f-rtility reLeu;uo_ally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted for different lengths of primsry education; for co-trise with
ir developing coutries.                                                                  usivereal education, enral1,umvt ma  excee.d 100% since sam pupils are bel1v
Population grovib rat   C%) - total - Lepoud annual growth rates of mid-year               or obove the official ebhol oge.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                           Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Conputed as shoe; secondory
P.pul.tion crovth rate (1) - urban - Cumputed like growth rate of total                    education requires ot least four years of aprvdpiaytsrcin
population; different definitions, of urban ar..easmay sffect oeparability of            provides gSmnerl, vocational or teac.her traiing Instructions for pupils
data among conre,of 12 to 17 Vears of age; correspondence noureps are g...r-11y excluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Rtatt  of urban to total population; different           Years of schooling provde   sfrt n       econd levels) - Total years of
defiitins  f uran  rea  ma affct  onprabiityof  ataceen  oontree.schooling; at secondarydevel vocttional instruction may be partially or
d.fi.itiona  f  rb..areas my offset cmpmbility of datesmou   cyuntciesad.
panstrctrn  peren) -Chldrn (-1  yers, wrkig-ge  1164  ear),voctioalenrllent(%               f acodayl        Woatyna    istiutinsincud
As, tretired (p5 year.  adovr -   shide.  per0 tge  of.)   mrid-year1-6 pouaston.         techtoial, industrial or othe p.drogr- wh.ichopeate indepetindentcly oda
scd dep irndenc 5 ratio - . factoao p pulation under 15 and-65and Poverationts            department  of secondary iottthe lpovra.    hc    prt        .d.l        ra
of. dgepen.. 15 trough  .I.o       ...to    ..r1         5         rt 64...               dultpitrs.of rste d(I   y i-tLitertenadut  (al  ora     ndwie      opr
cofmi greneoyraio-isiao poplaionuner                   5  nd654nd     vedtoItag liof. rtota                 adult puLtiont agd.15 years anred oe.d-i.           pr
lie  aborforc  in  ge  Roupo of154 years.to -dr1en65adoatoetgoftt1dl                                         olto       .d1    yr     .dwr
othei.b. fnorce - s   gce grors(aup ot1564e. to)-Cuuaierubrofacpor                       os
of-iyp.. -it-oto  dvces under auspIcenv ofan naioa    faItly  planning .cprtgre         peronaorre        ubs     -Aeaenmero           esnie       re   nocpe
ucice ioception.                                                                           -cnetional dwellings In urban reen; duelling. seclude non-peomanet
F,osily pl.anoln  - uoers (% of married w-ne) - Percentages of married wonn of             structures ad unoccupied parts.-
,hl1d-b..ring ago (15-44 years) who us   birth-control device  to all married          Occupied dwellings without piped ustar C1) - Occupied convetional dwellines
cu-n      sm  ago group.                                                                 in urban and mrur1 areas without inaide or outside piped water facilities
as perrcentage of all occupied dwe1Lligs.
Euployment                                                                               Ac     to electricity C% sf all deelinig.   - Conventional dwellings with
7oto1 labor force (thou...nd) - Econonically active Persons, including armd                electricity in living quarters as percent of tots1 dweilings is urbas and
forc en nd u-oplayed but exclu.ding housewives, students, etc.; definitions              rural areas.
In -sriu   coun...tries are not cespsr-ble.                                            Rural drellings connected to electricity (%) - Conputed as shove for rurl
La1bor force in ucricu1ture CT) - AgricuIturo1 loabr force (in fraring, forestry,          d-ellings only.
h tittg sod fishing) as percentage of total loabr farce.
U.emplayed (% of labor farce) - Oeplayed are ueually defined as persons who              Consumption
urn able ad willing iu take aJoh, out of a job on a given day, ronsatad out            Radio receivers (par thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and see king work for a specified minimums period not exceeding one            to As...ral public Per thousand of population ; enciude  unlIcense..d receiver
.rek; may not be cep-rble betwee     coutries due to different defimitioma               In countries and in rests when registration of redio sets wa    in effect;
~f unemployedad sou rce of data, e.g., employment office etatistics, sample              dats for recent years may not be conparable since meet coutries abolished
P-ssemeercarsm (per thou Pop) - Passenger cars conpri.e motor cars seating
Incam dietributiivn    Perc...tege of private inca  (both in cask and kind)                lesth an   ight persona; exclu.de.saublanes, hsrees and military
received by richest 5%. richest 20%, poareet 20%. and Poorest 40% of house-              vehIcle..
holds.                                                                                 Electri.ity (kwh/yr per caP) - Annual toraumption of Industrial, cnser-ial.
public and priv-te electricity In kilowatt hours Per capita, generall1y
DistributiOn of land ownrerhipo-Per ...toase of loand mind by wealthiest 10%               b.asd on production data, without all--nc     far losses in grids hut allo--
sod poorest 10% of leand awa.str.                                                         ing for imports and exports of electricity.
NewsePrint (kg/yr per us)- Per -apita annual consumption in kilograme
Health and Nutrition                                                                       estimated free dasticl) production plus net imports of newprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by mcber of practicing



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC IND1CATOItS
(% and in
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWI'H -- constant prices)
US$ Mln.     % of GNP      1961-65     1966-70     1971-75
GNP at Market Prices                      24,900         100        9.0         7.7         11.3 -
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment            7,560          30       11.3 3/     11.2 21      11.2 21
Exports of Goods                           5,341          21.4      9 0        10.9         23.6 2
Imports of Goods                           5,342          21.4     10.7 -      12.7 2- 22.3
LABOR  FORCE IN 1975                               GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Mln.   %                                           General Government
(lei bill.)     % of GDY   3/
Agriculture       3.9    38                                      1975           1975
Industry          4.0    40
Services          2.3    22          Total Receipts              238.6            47.9
Total Expenditure           236.2           47.4
Total Surplus                 2.4            0.5
RETAIL PRICES      1971        1972      1973      1974      1975
(1966   100)      101.6      101.6      102.4     103.7     103.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Mln. US$)            1971      1972      1973                 1975
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1975
Exports of goods        2,102      2,884     3,667     4,858     5,341
Imports of goods        2,102      2,910     3,424     5,049     5,342                        US$ Mln.   %
Trade balance               0        -26      243      -191        -1      Capital goods       1,351   25
Net Services              -23        -31      -107      -168      -134      Consumer goods        860   16
Foodstuffs            566   11
Balance on goods                                                            Intermediate goods    577   11
and services          -23        -60     +136       -359      -135      Raw materials       1,986   38
Industrial        1,682   32
Net NLT Capital              5        24        83       643       437        Agricultural        304    6
Disbursements         350        516       589     1,065       817
Amortization         -345       -492      -506       412       380      Total               5,341  100
Residual Balance          -18        -36      +219      +284      +302
RATE OF EXCHAWNE                                                            PXIERUAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1976
OffAcial Rate:              Tourist Rate:                                                          US$ Mln.
Total                    3,095
US$ 1.00 - lei 4.97         US$ 1.00 -   Lei 12.00                       of which convertible
Leu 1.00 - US$ 0.20         Leu 1.00 - Us$ 0.08                          currencies               3,023
Official Trading Rate:                                                      DEBT SUVICE RATIO FOR 1976 (Est.)
US$ 1.00 - Lei 20                                                        Convertible currencies only 19.0
Leu 1.00 - US$ 0.05
1/ Net National Income
2/ Current Prices
3/ Groas Domestic Income                                                  Coutry ProEraiRs Dep.rtrert I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa IEfgi:
May 12, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF 13A'K OFLOUT' OP'RATIONTS TJN nO1MAIA
A. STATF'ENT OF BP1:K LOAN7S (As of March 31, 1977)
Amount in $ millions
Loan                                                            Less Cancellations
Number         Year    Borrover     Purpose      Bank     IDA         Undisbursed
Ln. 1020-RO    1974   Investment   Fertilizer    60.0      -             37.4
Bank
Ln 1027-RO     1975   Investment   Special       70.0      -             64.5
asank      Steel
Ln 1028-RO     1975   Investment   Thermal       60.0      -             18.5
Bank       Power
Ln 1082-R0     1975   BAFI         Irrigation    70.0      -             27.8
JM 1083-Ro     1975   BAFI         Agricultural  30.0      -             17.2
Credit
Ln 1169-10     1976   BAFI         Flood         4o.0                     3.6
Recovery
Ln 1170-RO     1976   Investment   Flood         20.0      _              2.3
Bank      Recovery
Ln 12I2-R0     1976   Investment   Hydropower    50.0      -             46.4
Bank
Ln 12147-RO    1976   BAFI         Irrigation    60.0      -             59.6
Ln 1368-RC 2   1977   BAFI         Irrigation    60.0      -             60.0
Total                             520.0      -            337.3
of which has been
repaid
Total now outstanding            520.0
Amount sold           1.6          -
of which rcpaid       0.0          1.6
Total now held by
Bunk 3/                 518.4
Total undishurlsed               337.3      -            337.3
1/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2/ Not yet effective.
3/ Excluding exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln No. 1020     Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 million Loan of
June 28, 1974; Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
By agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, the project site
was changed from Tecuci to Bacau which is more advantageous from the point
of view of controlling effluents. After a slow start, due mainly to the
change of site, lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures, and
the floods of spring 1975, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1027     Otelinox Special Steel Project: US$70 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed several months, primarily be-
cause of the complexity of two large bid packages and because of the Romanians'
lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines. Progress on procurement has been closely monitored by
several Bank supervision missions, and US$50,000 allocated for procurement
consultants but not used has been cancelled. The contracts for the two steel
mills under the loan have been signed and construction has begun.
Ln No. 1028     Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Effective Date: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are likely
to result in a five month delay in commissioning of the first generating unit.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand. Financial performance has been satis-
factory despite a reduction in energy sales growth in response to energy
conservation measures.
Ln No. 1082     Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Effective Date: May 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 60 percent of the project has been completed more or less on schedule.
International procurement was delayed initially by the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international bidding procedures required by the Bank,
and by a delay in appointing consultants to assist with this work. All
contracts have now been awarded. The project is expected to be completed
by October 1977, ahead of the December 1977 schedule anticipated at the
time of appraisal.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Ln No. 1083     Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress of the project is satisfactory. Contracts for chemicals
were not awarded after international competitive bidding because the Romanians
judged all bid prices to be too high; the Bank has advised the Romanians that
Bank financing for these items would be possible only if the contracts were
retendered. The Bank has concurred in the award of a contract for technical
know-how and for supplying equipment for the premix feed mill as recommended
by the Romanians.
Ln No. 1169     Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are ahead of
schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has been
delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids have been received for the early warning system equipment and bid evalua-
tion is in progress.
Ln No. 1170      Flood Recovery Project (Industry, Mining and Transport Com-
ponent); US$20 million Loan of November 12, 1975; Effective
Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date: September 1, 1977.
After a slow start due to the difficulties encountered in Romania in
preparing and assembling documentation on procurement of imported industrial
machinery, disbursements have improved considerably since September 1976. The
closing date has been extended from March 31 to September 1, 1977 to permit
full disbursement of the loan.
Ln No. 1242     Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; $50 million of
April 28, 1976; Effective Date: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is according to plan. Civil works for the dam
and underground power station are well underway. Commitments concerning
some 73 percent of the loan amount have been made and although disbursements
are delayed they are expected to catch up by mid 1977.
Ln No. 1247     Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; $60 million of April 28, 1976; Effective Date:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Advertisement for international competitive bidding has been com-
pleted and the Bank has approved tender documents. Bids for virtually all
items have already been opened, and bid evaluation reports are expected to be
submitted for IBRD review during the spring of 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Ln No. 1368     Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; $60 million of March 2,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Loan documents were signed on March 2, 1977 and the deadline for
effectiveness is June 2, 1977. Tender documents for this project were combined
with those for the Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development
Project (Loan No. 1247) and have been approved by the Bank. Bids for virtually
all items have been opened, and bid evaluation reports are expected to be sub-
mitted for IBRD review during the spring of 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
ROMANIA - BRASOV BEARINGS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Investment Bank, Romania
Guarantor:          Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:        Brasov Bearings Enterprises
Amount:             US$38.0 million, equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms:              Amortization in 13 years, including 3 years grace period.
Interest rate 8.2 percent per year.
Project             The project would comprise engineering, construction
Description:       and related services for:
(a) a new fully automated production line for an
annual capacity of 5.5 million bearings;
(b) modernized and expanded low volume production
facilities with an annual capacity of 28 mil-
lion; and
(c) modernized and expanded production facilities
for forgings, rings, balls, rollers, retainers
and other services and equipment required to
support a bearing plant operation for the
above two components at a level of 33.5 million
bearings per year.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign     Total     %
----------US$-
Equipment and Machinery                25.4       24.4       49.8    73.7
Imported Spares                          -         2.0        2.0     3.1
Installation and Utilities              5.5        1.9        7.4    11.0
Buildings & Civil Construction          7.3        0.3        7.6    11.2
Design, Engineering, Training and
Project Management                 0.6       0.1         0.7     1.0
Total Base Costs                       38.9       28.7       67.6   100.0
Physical Contingencies                  2.0        3.0        5.0     7.4
Price Contingencies                      -         6.3        6.3     9.4
Total Fixed Assets                     40.9       38.0       78.9   116.7
Working Capital                         8.9         -         8.9     13.3
Total Project Cost                     49.8       38.0       87.8   130.3
Interest During Construction             -         5.3        5.3
Total Financing Required               48.8       43.3       93.1
Financing Plan:
US$ Millions
Local /a   Foreign     Total
IBRD Loan                             -           38.0      38.0
State Funds                          1.5           5.3       6.8
Funds Retained from Operations      39.4            -       39.4
Funds for Working Capital            8.9            -        8.9
Total Financing                     49.8          43.3      93.1
/a   Including indirect foreign costs of Lei 130 million
(US$6.5 million).
Estimated Disbursements:                     (US$ million)
Calendar Years          1977    1978    1979     1980    1981
Annual                  1.9     5.4       7.5     8.7    14.5
Cumulative              1.9     7.3      14.8    23.5    38.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Procurement         Procurement of the equipment financed by the Bank would
Arrangements:      follow international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Agreement has been reached that
the specific items of machinery and equipment, spares and
related services, which are considered critical to the
technical viability of the project, will be imported from
Bank member countries and Switzerland. While the Romanians,
in an attempt to save foreign exchange, are expected to
make every effort to limit foreign expenditures and to
replace imports by locally manufactured goods, agreement
has been obtained during negotiations that changes in the
source of supply would only be made with the Bank's concur-
rence and only if such changes will not technically weaken
the project. However, should, contrary to current expecta-
tions, the cost of these agreed imported goods and services
be less than $31.5 million made available for them, a part
of the loan, equivalent to the resultant reduction in the
total foreign exchange cost of the project, would be can-
celled. Other goods and services totalling about $6.5
million also required for the project will be procured with
Romanian suppliers participating in the bidding. For pur-
poses of bid comparison the normal 15 percent preference
would be applied to the local bid. Prequalification on the
basis of bid advertisement was initiated in February 1977
and most bids are expected to be received between August
1977 and February 1978.
Economic Rate
of Return:         15.6 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 1381-RO of Industrial Projects Department



ANNEX IV
ROMANIA
BRASOV BEARINGS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first identified by IDA: April 1975
(b) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 30 months
(c) Agency which has prepared the Project: Romanian Design and Research
Center for Bearings and Fasteners
(d) Date of the first Bank Mission to consider the Project: August 1975
(e) Date of detailed discussions on project concept: December 1975
(f) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: April 26, 1976
(g) Date of Post-Appraisal Mission: November 1976
(h) Completion of project revision and review by Bank: March 1977
(i) Date of completion of Negotiations: March 31, 1977
(j) Planned date of Effectiveness: August, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will not make any substantial changes either in the
equipment list or source of supply proposed for the project without
prior agreement with the Bank (paragraph 54).
(b) The Government will take steps to improve organizational arrangements
for the export of bearings to existing and prospective markets
(paragraph 38).
(c) The Brasov Enterprise will undertake a review by March 31, 1978 of the
product mix of its production program (paragraph 46).
(d) The Brasov Enterprise will complete by March 31, 1978 a review to
further improve labor productivity in its plant (paragraph 47).






I B RD  12361
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
4E4  \>   U.  S.  S       R.     ,        |     ,    LQCATIONS OF MAJOR BEARINGS PLANTS
-480
XRASOG PROIECE
B ALL aEATINGS PLANT
* TOYO5AY                   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLR BER INTPGS PLANT
C,                                                                                                       0 X X - ' t - > \ vEOLAANIA  SPECIAL BEARINGS PLANT
ETYTOPEAN H IGHWAYS
MAYOR NATIONAt HIGHOWAYS
X\+                 %   t   A    _     S                        B         C   0                       W_                              L   L COUNTY BOUNDARIES
114.                    R17 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                               -INTESNATIONAL BOUNTARIES
V ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~               COUNTY CAPITALS
IIATIA  E-T                     ~~   ~~~~~~~~~0 MUNIC IPAL ITIES
VASLUI X       IT 20 30 3. T  EU T
MILES
NS R - TURDA CAL 0                                                                   S   CTO  ST  EU  T9
KILOMETERS
T A
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



