Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2109 GH
                       Development Credit Agreement
                           (Sixth Power Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated May 7, 1990
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2109 GH
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1990, between the REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Volta River Authority
(the Authority) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Authority the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   the Authority intends to contract from the European Investment
Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to approximately
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Authority and EIB; and
      (D)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
Page  2
date between the Association and the Authority;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Authority of even date, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Authority pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "the Authority" means the Volta River Authority, a body
corporate established and operating pursuant to the Volta River Development
Act, 1961 (Act 46);
      (d)   "the Volta River Authority Act, 1961" means the Volta River
Authority Act, 1961, as amended to the Effective Date; and
      (e)   the term "Master Agreement", "Power Contract", "Subscription
Agreement", "Long Term Tolling Contracts", "Voting Trust Arrangements", "The
Valco Current Accounts Trust", and "Scheduled Documents" mean the respective
agreements and documents as defined in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
(Volta Project) dated February 8, 1962 between the Bank and the Authority.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million two
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,200,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
Page  3
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15,
2000, and ending December 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on December 15, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Authority is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement shall cause the Authority
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
the obligations of the Authority therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Authority to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  4
      (b)   The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit to the
Authority under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Authority under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and which shall include interest at the rate of
7.75% per annum, repayment over twenty (20) years, including six (6) years
of grace, and the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Authority.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by the Authority pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Authority shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Authority will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Volta River Development Act, 1961, shall have been ended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Authority to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
Authority or for the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor; or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                  and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  5
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of
that Section.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and the Authority; and
      (b)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB
Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled.
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by the Authority, and is legally binding upon the Authority in accordance
with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and the Authority and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Authority in accordance with its terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            PNDC Secretary for Finance
                  and Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box M 40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMICON                    2205 MIFAEP GH
                  Accra
      For the Association:
Page  6
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Eric K. Otoo
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Retrofitting              11,000,000        100% of foreign
    of Akosombo                                 expenditures
    plant
(2) Consultants'               1,900,000        100% of foreign
    services                                    expenditures
(3) Unallocated                2,300,000
         TOTAL                15,200,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Authority in: (i)
maintaining the high standard of reliability of Ghana's electricity supply;
(ii) meeting the projected domestic and export demand through the year 1995;
and (iii) implementing its ongoing program of institutional development.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Power Generation
    Retrofitting of the Akosombo hydroelectric plant.
Part B:   Power Transmission
1.  Construction of a second bulk power supply substation in Accra.
2.  Extension of the 161 kV northern grid transmission system to supply the
Upper West Region, including Wa and an interconnection to Burkina Faso.
Part C:   Power Distribution
    Expansion of the distribution network in Northern Ghana.
Part D:   Institutional Development and Studies
1.  Continuation of the program of management reorganization.
2.  Preparation and implementation of a staff development and training
program, including the construction of a training facility.
3.  Prefeasibility and feasibility studies of future hydroelectric sites.
4.  A study on regional cooperation in power generation and interchange.
5.  A tariff study.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
