~OFuI I    J  LOAN NUMBER \     1 IN
Loan Agreement
(Farakka Thermal Power Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBERI bl IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    , 1980, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional financial assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Development
Credit Agreement) the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
two hundred twenty-five million dollars ($225,000,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D) the Project will be carried out by the National Thermal
Power Corporation Limited (hereinafter called NTPC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to NTPC the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the Bank
and NTPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan


﻿-2-
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower-,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-quarter per cent (8.25%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal'amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause NTPC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable NTPC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any. action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
to NTPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NTPC, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall, inter alia,
provide that NTPC shall: (i) pay to the Borrower interest at an
effective rate of ten and one-quarter per cent (10-1/4%) per annum
on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn by NTPC and
outstanding from time to time; and (ii) repay to the Borrower
the principal amount so relent over a period of twenty years,
including therein a period of grace of five years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization,or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the events set forth in Section 4.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the events set forth in Section 4.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date            /        , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi,
India


﻿6
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of NTPC's first stage of the Farakka
thermal power development located in the Murshidabad District of
the State of West Bengal and consists of acquisition and installa-
tion of three 200 MW generating units with associated transmission
totalling about 410 km of 400 kV lines, as well as a training
simulator
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1985
through   October 1, 1999                    835,000
On April 1, 2000                                  785,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-9-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium*
Not more than three years                               1.25%
before maturity
More than three years but                               2.50%
not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but not                             4.55%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                              6.60%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                             7.40%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                    8.25%
*    Given as an indication only and based on an assumed rate
of interest of 8.25% per annum. The final table will reflect
the interest rate approved for the Loan by the Executive
Directors of the bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    d     day of       , 1 9S0.
FOR SECRETARY


