CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1481 MAS
Loan Agreement
(Fourth DBM Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Dated August 29, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a corporate bank established and operating under the
laws of Mauritius.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an Investment.
(d) "Sugar Estate" means an Investment Enterprise engaged
in both the production and milling of sugar cane.
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(f) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(h) "Act" means the Development Bank of Mauritius Act of
1972 of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(i) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on October 27, 1971, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(j) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower or any outstanding
development credit agreement between the International Development
Association and the Borrower dated before the date of this Agree-
ment and "Prior Loan" means any loan or credit provided for
therein.


﻿-4-
(k) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(1) "Government Loans" means loans made by the Guarantor
to the Borrower from time to time for the purpose of financing
the operations of the Borrower and subordinated to all other debt
for the purpose of liquidation.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account:
(i) for amounts expended (or if the Bank shall so
agree, for expenditures required to be made)
in a foreign currency under a Sub-loan or Invest-
ment for goods procured, or services supplied
from, outside Mauritius;
(ii) on account of seventy-five per cent (75%) of the
invoiced price in Rupees for goods previously
imported into Mauritius through normal trade
channels;
(iii) on account of fifty per cent (50%) of the invoiced
price in Rupees for goods produced in the territory
of the Guarantor from previously imported mate-
rials, provided that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Mauritius of not
more than 50% of the ex-factory price of such
goods;


﻿(iv) on account of forty-five per cent (45%) of the cost
in Rupees of construction of industrial buildings
and hotels, deemed to be the foreign currency cost
thereof;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of
a Sub-loan or Investment (A) unless the Sub-loan or Investment
shall have been approved by the Bank; or (B) unless the Sub-loan
shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account or (C) for a Sugar
Estate if the aggregate of prior withdrawals for such Sub-loans
shall have reached the equivalent of $2,500,000.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $600,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
of any Prior Loan for such Investment Project or (ii) $2,000,000
equivalent, when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the dank; provided, however, that the first five
proposals for Sub-loans for Sugar Estates shall not be considered
free-limit Sub-loans.


﻿-7-
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
made before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval, or in respect of an Investment, more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank siaiJ. have re-
ceived the application and information required by Section 2.03
(a) of this Agreement or (iii) expenditures made in respect of a
free-limit Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to the date .on
which the Bank shall have received the request and information
required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than
a free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment
to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the Invest-
ment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.


﻿-8-
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwife
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1979.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.


﻿-9-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of Investments
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on June 15 and December 15 in each
year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments
to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
Investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i)
shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the
Bank of such Sub-loan or Investment, or in the case of a


﻿- 10 -
free-limit Sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or an
Investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan
or Investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a Sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of
an Investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such Investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in Mauritius as will contribute to the economic and social develop-
ment of the country. The Project consists in the financing of
specific development projects through loans to and investments in
private enterprises in Mauritius, in furtherance of the corporate
purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
Investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound


﻿- 13 -
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as


﻿- 14 -
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the Sub-loans
and Investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.


﻿- 15 -
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall be or can be made applica-
ble thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. In respect of Investment Projects of Sugar
Estates:
(a) the Borrower shall, prior to the first request for
approval by the Bank of a Sub-loan or Investment for a Sugar
Estate, furnish to the Bank for review a survey of the collective
financial requirements of all such Estates, includiu3 the purposes
and the impact on employment thereof and the projected participa-
tion of the Borrower therein; and
(b) the Borrower shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, limit its exposure in such Investment Projects to 15% of
its total loan portfolio.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as
security for any debt.


﻿- 17 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its


﻿- 18 -
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
four times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan


﻿- 19 -
contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt owed by the Borrower to
any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other subsidiary, and (ii) the amounts of the Government Loans
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary,
and (ii) such amounts of the Government Loans as shall be


﻿- 20 -
repayable after the latest of the dates of all outstanding
maturities of sub-loans, of the schedules of repayment to the Bank
in respect of investments and of any sub-loans or investments made
by the Borrower out of the proceeds of any Prior Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Rupees) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representative with regard to the administration, operati-)ns
and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, anc
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act which would
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower;
(c) a material change shall have been made in the Statement
of Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 22 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date October 28, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 af the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Development Bank of Mauritius
P.O. Box 157
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:                 Telex:
DEVBANK                         996-IW 248
Mauritius


﻿- 24 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
By /s/ P. G. Guy Balancy
Authorized Representative


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
June 15, 1979                                    150,000
December 15, 1979                                150,000
June 15, 1980                                    160,000
December 1, 1980                                 160,000
June 15, 1981                                    170,000
December 15, 1981                                170,000
June 15, 1982                                    180,000
December 15, 1982                                180,000
June 15, 1983                                    190,000
December 15, 1983                                190,000
June 15, 1984                                    200,000
December 15, 1984                                200,000
June 15, 1985                                    270,000
December 15, 1985                                270,000
June 15, 1986                                    270,000
December 15, 1986                                270,000
June 15, 1987                                    270,000
December 15, 1987                                270,000
June 15, 1988                                    270,000
December 15, 1988                                270,000
June 15, 1989                                    270,000
December 15, 1989                                270,000
June 15, 1990                                    270,000
December 15, 1990                                270,000
Junw 15, 1991                                    270,000
December 15, 1991                                270,000
June 15, 1992                                    270,000
December 15, 1992                                270,000
June 15, 1993                                    270,000
December 15, 1993                                270,000
June 15, 1994                                    270,000
December 15, 1994                                270,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              8.20%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, orin
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the


﻿- 28 -
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


