Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3561-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALI
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
December 4, 1981
Transportation, Water and Telecommunications Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Mal! Franc (MF)
US$ 1.00 = MF 500
MF 100 = US$0.20
MF 1,000,000 = US$2,000
SDR 1.00 = US$1.15118
US$1.00= SDR 0.868675
SDR 1.00 = MF 575.59
FISCAL YEAR
Jariuary 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All weights and measures are in metrie units



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND DEFINITIONS USED IN THE REPORT
AfDB              -  African Development Bank
Arrondissement   -  Subdistrict
BEPTOM            -  Bureau des Etudes des Postes et Telecommunications
d'Outre Mer (France)
CCCE              -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
Cercle            -  District
CIDA              -  Canadian International Development Authority
CT3               -  International telephone exchange (ITU classification)
DELs              -  Direct exchange lines
ECOWAS            -  Economic Community of Western African States
GHz               -  Billion oscillations per second (frequency measurement
unit)
HF                -  High frequency (between 3 and 30 MHz)
ICB               -  International competitive bidding
IDA               -  International Development Association
INTELSAT          -  International Telecommunications Satellite Consortium
ITU               -  International Teilecommunication Union
Line-carrier      -  A system of providing several communications channels
over one pair of open wires
MDF               -  Main distribution frame (part of a telephone exchange
installation)
MHz               -  Million oscillations per second (frequency measurement
unit)
NTF               -  Nigerian Trust Fund
OPT               -  Office des Postes et Telecommunications
PANAFTEL          -  Concept of telecommunications transmission lines between
African countries
PBX               -  Private branch exchange
PPF               -  Project Preparation Facility
PTT               -  Posts, Telegraph and Telephone Administration
SDR               -  Special drawing rights (consolidated exchange rate for a
"basket" of currencies)
SHF/UHF/VHF       -  Super high radio frequency (3-30 GHz)/Ultra high radto
frequency (0.3-3 GHz)/Very high radio frequency (30-300
MHz)
SPC               -  Stored program control
TIM               -  Compagnie des Telecommunications Internationales du Mali
UAPT              -  African Posts and Telecommunications Union
UNDP              -  United Nations Development Programme
WIP               -  Work in progress
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR .................................    1
Background and Organization .................................    1
Access to Service .............. .............................    1
Usage of Services           ..                                       2
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities      .      .             3
Demand for Service           ..                                      4
Sector Goals ..                                                      5
Sector Constraints           ..                                      8
Role of World Bank Group          ..                                 9
Il.   THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ...................................  10
The Program         .................................................   10
Project Concept         ................................            il
Project Composition ...................       ......................   12
Project Cost     ....................... .........................   13
Project Financing      ....................  .......................   14
Procurement         .................................................   15
Disbursements         ...............................................   15
Project Implementation ..................       ....................   16
Performance Indicators          ....................  17
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited Mali in January/February 1981, comprising of Messrs. H. Ruud
(Engineer) and C. MacNealy (Financial Analyst, Consultant) as well as
findings at brief follow-up visits by Mr. MacNealy in June and Mr. Ruud in
September 1981. Mr. D. Lomax (Financial Analyst) has contributed to the
financial sections of the report.



(ii)
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Ill.   ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS  .............................................    17
Telecommunications  and Development  .......                      ...................    17
Distribution  of  Benefits               ........................8............                 1
Tariff  Policies  .............................................                                19
Least  Cost  Solution             .........................................                    20
Return  on  Investment              ........................................                   21
Risk       ...............................................                                     21
Environmental  and  Health  Aspects  ...2.........................                              2
IV.    THE  IMPLEMENTING  AGENCY                 .......................................                   22
Organization  ...............................................                                  22
Management  and  Control               .......................................                 23
Billing  and  Collection               ......................................                  23
Inventory                            ..............,.,...24
Technical  Assistance,  Staff  and  Training  ..................                        ..    24
Audit .. ................., 26
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                             ..27
Past  Financial  Performance                  ..................................               27
Present  Financial  Position                  ..................................               29
Valuation  of  Assets           .........................................                      30
Financing  Plan  for  1981-85  OPT  Program  ...................                      ...    30
Future  Financial  Performance                    ................................             31
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .............................................    33



(iii)
LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
Page No.
1.  International Telephone Statisties ............................   36
2.  Telephone Subscriber Distribution .............................   37
3.  Existing Facilities as of December 31, 1980 ...................  38
4.  Description of Works in OPT Investment Program (1981-85)   .....   41
5.  Program and Project Costs .....................................   45
6.  Schedule of Disbursements .....................................   46
7.  Project Implementation Schedule ...............................  47
8.  Performance Indicators ........................................   48
9.  Telecommunications Tariffs and Charges ........................  49
10.  Study of Tariff Structure - Draft Terms of Reference .... ......  55
11.  Return on Investment ..........................................   58
12.  Organization Chart (WB 23092) .................................  59
13.  Annual Investment Program .....................................   60
14.  OPT Consolidated Financial Statements ........................   61
15.  Telecommunications Department Financial Statements ....         ........  63
16.  Postal/Financial Department Financial Statements ....          ..........  66
17.  Assumptions for Financial Forecasts of OPT's Telecommunications
Department ..................................................   68
18.  Assumptions for Postal/Financial Services Forecast ....         ........  69
MAP  IBRD 15789






I. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
1.01      Public telecommunications services in Mali are managed and operated
by the Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT) under the supervision of
Ministry of Information and Telecommunications. OPT, a parastatal
enterprise, established by a statute promulgated in 1960 and changed in March
1981, handles the postal and telecommunications monopolies and is responsible
for expansion and operation of telecommunications, postal, and public
financial services (postal money orders, postal checking accounts, and postal
savings accounts). The tariffs for OPT's services are established by decree
issued by supervisory minister.
1.02      In principle, OPT licenses all nonmilitary telecommunications
installations not owned by the OPT itself.  It is common knowledge, however,
that many non-OPT installations are operated throughout the country without
license. The loss of potential revenue to OPT due to such installations is
estimated not to be significant and as they are used for services that OPT's
own means are at present insufficient to provide, OPT is not forcefully
pursuing the matter, in spite of the fact that they sometimes cause radio
interference and that they constitute an uneconomic way of utilizing scarce
resources. Common carrier facilities for Mali's international
telecommunications are established and operated by Telecommunications
Internationales du Mali (TIM), a company jointly owned by Malian Government
(65 percent) and the French company, France Cable et Radio (35 percent). TIM
is supervised by the Ministry of Information and Telecommunications. No
telecommunications manufacturing industry of any significance exists in Mali.
Access to Service
1.03      With 4,700 main telephone lines (DELs) in service, the telephone
density in the country was 0.06 DEL per 100 population at the end of 1980.
This figure is among the lowest in the world. For Africa excluding the
Republic of South Africa, the corresponding average figure is 0.4; for Asia,
except for Japan and the People's Republic of China, it is 0.9; for Latin
America 3.2, and for North Amnerica 32. Telephone density figures for a
number of countries are given at Annex 1. Bamako, the capital, with about 55
percent of total DELs has a density of only about 0.4 DEL per 100
inhabitants1. Excluding Bamako and ten other larger cities, the rest of the
country, with 89 percent of the population, has a total of only about 780
DELs, which makes 0.01 DEL per 100 inhabitants in these areas.
1.04      Not only are almost all the telephone subscriber connections
concentrated in about 50 cities and towns in the southern and western parts
of the country, but also the extent of the long distance network is very
limited. Of the total population of Mali, only 17 percent live in areas
with access to some sort of telephone or telegraph installation, however poor
it may be; the figure for the country apart from Bamako is 11 percent. The
1/ The corresponding figures for some other African capitals are Dakar 1.6,
Abidjan 1.9, Niamey 1.7, Addis Ababa 2.9, Dar-es-Salaam 1.8.



country is administratively divided into "the District of Bamako" and seven
regions.  The regions are in turn dïvided into 46 districts (cercles) with a
total of 281 subdistricts (arronclissements) and 12 independent communes.  All
seven regional capitals have telephone and telegraph services, although only
two have weat might be considered service of satisfactory quality.  Out of
the 46 district centers that are nol. also regional capitals, 33 have
telephone service, 3 have telegraph service only, and 3 have no service at
all. Out of 281 subdistrict centers, 211 have no telecommunications service
at all. Moreover, apart from administrative towns, there are important
centers for transport and for agricultural development, which do not have
access to any telecommunications service. Only about 80 public telephones
are installed in the whole of Mali; 10 of these in Bamako. The public
telephones outside Bamako are used very little, primarily because of the poor
quality of the long distance service offered.
1.05      OPT operates 52 telegraph offices, three of weich are located at
places with no telephone service. All telex installations but one are in
Bamako.
Usage of Services
1.06      The distribution of the telephone subscribers by user categories
varies a gredt deal with the types of communities in which they are located
(Table below and Annex 2).
Percentage of Subscribers
-7ovt. Admin. &  Commercial
Community                        Public Service   Activity   Residence  Other
Bamako                                     17.3           22.2         60.1     0.4
Other cities with automatic service    27.5               20.7         51.0      0.8
Other cities                               35.8           25.2         37.3      1.7
Rural area                                 55.3           28.4         10.6      5.7
Total country                        25.4            23.1        49.3      2.2
Sample checks show that practically all of the residential telephones in
rural areas and two-thirds of those in Bamako and other urban areas are used
mainly for professional or business purposes. Other sample checks show that
about two-thirds of the total telephone traffic in Bamako is local and
one-third interurban and international. Of the total telephone traffic,
originating at places other than Bamako, 25 percent is local and 75 percent
interurban and international. Quantified data, which would enable a



- 3 -
comparison of service demands by various categories of clients, do not yet
exist.2
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
1.07    Existing telecommunications facilities are described in Annex 3.
About 70 percent of the total number of telephones in the country are
connected to five local automatic exchanges; the rest to manual exchanges.
The automatic exchanges give a 24-hour service, whereas the manual exchanges,
with few exceptions, are open during office hours only, which is a poor
degree of service. Complete statistics for the traffic flow do not exist,
but on the basis of information available it is estimated that more than 95
percent of local traffic, about 65 percent of the interurban domestic
traffic, and about 20 percent of the international traffie is automatic.
1.08       In the framework of the first IDA project (Credit 321-MLI)
automatic telephone exchanges were installed in Bamako, Segou, Kati and
Koulikoro; all of them were interconnected with reliable microwave links.
This has reduced the earlier difficulties in obtaining dial tone and calling
subscribers at these places.  There have, however, remained many practical
difficulties, most of them resulting from the unreliability and insufficient
extent of local cables in service. In the ongoing works, the quality of the
Bamako cable network is being significantly improved. Thus the number of
faulty subscriber lines per day during the worst parts of the year have
already decreased from 200-400 to about 50. The figure, wich is still too
high, is expected to decrease further by the end of 1981. Due to resource
limitations, improvements of the reliability of the networks in other cities
can only be achieved during the second project. A consequence of the
insufficiency of the local cables is that the subscribers with PBX
installations and heavy busy-hour traffic have too few exchange lines. As
these are busy throughout the peak hours, repeated unsuccessful call attempts
are made, which load the switching equipment beyond its capacity and further
decreases the chance of completing calls. The situation also will only be
rectified within the framework of the second project.
1.09      An automatic telephone exchange is also in service in Sikasso,
which is a regional capital and center of the agriculturalty important
southernmost part of the country. However, the service improvement expected
at the installation of this exchange has not materialized due to its poor
quality connection to the national network. All other exchanges in the
country provide only manual service, which is inferior (paragraph 1.07). The
manual exchanges are connected to the national network by either open wire
pole lines or by HF radio, neither of which is satisfactory. The former are
2/ Of the total amount billed for July/August 1980 for the whole of Mali,
39.1 percent was for "official subscribers" and 60.9 percent for "private
subscribers ."



-4 -
mostly old and were not designed for the long distance routes for ehich they
are used.  The latter are limited to working between a half an hour and a few
hours per day; even these brief periods are frequently interrupted by power
failures at either end. They are also vuinerable to interference and
atmospheric disturbances. More than 50 percent of the call bookings for
transmission over HF circuits are canceled due to excessive waiting times;
for calls on line circuits the figure varies between 25 percent and 50
percent.  These figures indicate an inferior service.
1.10      The international traffic is operator-handled, except that about
50 percent of the calls between Mlali and France are established by subscriber
dialing (20 percent of all calls). The traffic is routed by satellite
circuits to Algeria and to Europe arid beyond and by HF circuits to other
African countries.  The HF circuits suffer from the same limitations as the
domestic HF circuits (paragraph 1.09), although to a lesser degree, due to
better equipment and staff resources. The satellite circuits give reliable
service, but during peak hours the demand exceeds the capacity of available
facilities, resulting in long waiting times. TIM, weich operates these
facilities3 (paragraph 1.02), is intending to increase their capacity in the
course of 1982.  Of the total international traffic, 52 percent goes to
neighboring countries, particularly Ivory Coast (24 percent) and Senegal
(23 percent), and about 45 percent to Europe.
Demand for Service
1.11      In general, applicants for telephone subscription cannot be given a
firm delivery time, with applicants for a residential telephone having to
wait for at least two to three years, and furthermore the quality of service
is discouragingly poor at many places.  In spite of these facts, the official
waiting lists contain as many as 1,800 registered applicants, 1,348 of which
are in Bamako (December 31, 1980). There is in addition an equivalent
latent demand emerging from area to area, as expansion works are undertaken
and applicants perceive improved prospects of getting telephones.  The
principal reason for demand not being satisfied is the lack of available
cable pairs. There is also a general demand from Government for services in
various cities and towns all over the country. During the last ten years the
number of DELs has grown by only 5.4 percent per year. Consultants, engaged
for network engineering, point out that this small rate is a consequence of
the general delay in expansion of telecommunications in the Sahel zone
following the draught in the middie of the 1970's. For Mal! they propose an
acceleration, from 5.4 percent to about 13 percent per year, to make up for
the delay and to cater for the country's economic and social development
needs.  They estimate the total demand to correspond to about 10,000 DELs by
end 1985 and 16,000 by 1990, an annual increase of about 10 percent from the
present number of connected DELs plus registered unsatisfied demand. By
3/ Except the circuits to Algeria, which are handied by OPT. They were not
in operation at the time of the visit of the mission.



- 5 -
1985, about 85 percent of the demdnd would have been satisfied.  It is
expected, however, that the size of the official waiting lists will exceed
one year's installation capacity of OPT throughout the period 1981-1985.
1.12       In the installation and connection of new subscriber lines the
following order of priority is followed as closely as possible:
(a)  Government administration;
(b)  social institutions;
(c)  commercial and transport organizations and enterprises;
(d)  residential telephones.
OPT will also consider tariff measures that wouid help in channeling the
demand for new subscriber connections in a manner wich is desirable to
achieve Covernment development objectives (paragraph 3.11).
1.13      The capacity of the present telex exchange (168) has been
completely filled up for more than a year. As additional connections cannot
be made until the new exchange provided for in the second telecommunications
project has been taken into operation, OPT has refused to accept applications
for the time being. No official waiting list is therefore kept, but the
present unsatisfied demand is estimated at 150-200.
Sector Goals
1.14      The medium-term goals for telecommunications development in Mal!
are:
-    a reliable long distance network with a sufficient call
handling capacity to link the regional capitals, and the
regional capitals with the district centers;
-   an improved quality of the local cable networks in all
important cities and towns, and an expansion of these
networks so as to enable new subscribers to get connected
with a delay not exceeding a couple of months; and
-   connection of subdistrict centers and other rural
development centers to the main long distance network, as
this network expands.
These goals have been accepted by Government as being in harmony with
its development objectives, which have been set out in a document prepared by
the Ministry of Plan for the draft 1981-1985 Economic and Social Development
Plan. The document emphasizes strongly all aspects of rural development.
Implicitly, it also makes clear the need for telecommunications on the routes



Mopti-Segou-Sikasso, Mopti-Gao, Gao-Ansongo-(Niger), Bamako-Kayes,
Bamako-(Guinea), and Sikasso-(Ivory Coast), where reliable and rapidly
established telephone and telex conmunications would be particularly
important for transport management and for agricultural development
(paragraph 3.04).
1.15       OPT has translated these goals into objectives for an investment
program for the same period (1981-1985) as the Government Plan. The
objectives are to:
(a) connect all the regional capitals with one another and
with Bamako by means of reliable links;
(b) provide reliable connections of sufficient capacity
between the regional capitals and the district centers
and between these latter and a number of the subdistrict
centers;
(c)  provide reliable, high call capacity links to neighboring
countries;
(d)  install facilities for automatic service, local and
interurban, at the regional capitals;
(e)  improve and expand the local cable networks at Bamako, at
all regional capitals, and at important district centers,
and connect new subscribers;
(f) improve the facilities for handling international calls;
(g) establish facilities for a domestic telex network, to
cover all regional capitals and some other cities and
towns and expand the international telex service; and
(h) improve management services and operations of OPT.
1.16       The cost of the 1981-1985 investment program covering these
objectives is in summary:



7-
US$ Million
Item                                    MF Billion  (equivalent)
Long distance principal links                     7.7           15.4
Secondary and rural links                        2.1             4.3
Local and interurban switching                   2.4             4.9
Local cables and subscriber installations    5.7                11.4
International links                              4.0             8.0
International switching                          0.9             1.7
Telex                                             1.0            2.0
Technical assistance and training                 1.2            2.4
Total                                      25.0           50.1
The scope and composition of the program are feasible. Financing of the
program is dealt with in paragraphs 5.07 and 5.08.  It is to be noted that
the microwave links to neighboring countries are also largely to be used to
carry national interurban traffic.  In the above table an arbitrary division
of costs has been made to take account of this point. It should also be
noted that important contributions to the OPT institution development efforts
are granted in kind by various international and bilateral institutions, and
do not figure in the table (paragraph 4.07).
1.17       Although an important portion of the program aims at providing the
much needed bases for the emerging nationwide telecommunications services arnd
for communications with neighboring countries, the program will also cater
for improvements in the telephone density and in the rural penetration; this
is indicated in the following table.4
4/ Radio broadcasting is handled by a separate organization which has its
own transmitting stations. However, to the extent that OPT offers, and
can in future offer, circuits for long distance transmission of programs,
such circuits will be leased against subscription contract payments.
Television has not yet been introduced in Mali, but the principal
microwave Links are planned and constructed so that equipment for
intercity transmission of television programs can be added when in future
it will be needed.



1980     1985
Actual  Forecast
Telephone density (DELs per 100 inhabitants)
Mali (total)                                                       0.07      0.13
Bamako and regional capitals                                       0.47      0.59
Rest of country                                                    0.01     0.04
Percentage of Mali's population living in a subdistrict,
including towns and cities, with access to some form of
telecommunications service - including Bamako                     17       24
- excluding Bamako                  il        16
Regional capitals (%) wîth 24-hour telephone service                30       100
District centers (%)
- with dependable telephone service seven days a week              9       48
- with some form of telecommuniicitions service                   93      100
Subdistrict centers (%) with some 1orm of telecommunica-
tions service                                                     25       43
Sector Constraints
1.18      The principal constraints on sector development in the past were
connected with shortcomings in OPT's organization, management, and staffing.
OPT's statute (paragraph 4.01), did not clearly define the duties and
responsibilities of its various departments and sections but did create a
bureaucracy that is much too heavy for a telecommunications administration,
and has prevented efficiency in the operations.  Staff on key posts have
changed frequently, whereby continluity has been lost. Also, although OPT was
created as "an organism of industrial and commercial character" (cited from
the ordinance No. 62/1960), it is part of the national civil service with
salaries too low to attract the best people. Recruitment and training of new
staff has not been coordinated satisfactorily with OPT's need of personnel.
As a consequence, while the number of well-trained and experienced people in
the Telecommunications Department is small, the total number of staff is much
too high for the size of present operations (paragraph 4.08). The Department
has been and is still relying heavily on consultants' services; the quality
of some of these services has left a good deal to be desired. The Department
has, however, at present reasonably good management, the training is being
systematized and the technical assistance (paragraph 4.07) coordinated.
Legislation that revises OPT's sta[tute has recently been enacted
(Chapter IV). The revision improves the structure significantly and defines
clearly the repartition of tasks and of responsibilities; it has thus made
the OPT statute suitable for modern and efficient operations. The
implementation of the new legislation will be followed closely.
1.19      In the past OPT has not been able to undertake a major program of
improvement and expansion of its services, due to the macroeconomic situation



- 9 -
in Mali and to the fact that OPT has not had access to guaranteed long-term
foreign exchange financing, apart from a few bilaterally financed items.  In
addition, the financial position of OPT has beeri unsatisfactory and the
telecommunications service has not been able to generate, from its
operations, sufficient funds to support such a major program for improvement
and expansion of services. In these regards, the situation has improved
(paragraphs 5.07-5.09), partly as a result of the first project.
Role of World Bank Croup
1.20      The World Bank Croup first became associated with the
telecommunications sector in 1972 through an IDA credit of US$3.6 million
equivalent (Credit 321-MLI). The credit, together with OPT's own
contribution of US$0.7 million equivalent, was supposed to cover the project
cost. The project was composed of:
-   construction of a microwave link Bamako-Segou-Mopti,
supply and installation of telephone switching equipment
in Bamako and six provincial towns;
-   rehabilitation and extension of local cable networks; and
-   support of managerial and administrative improvements in
OPT.
Due to various reasons, among them poor performance of the consultants
engaged to prepare bid specifications for necessary equipment, it was not
until 1975 that bids were received and evaluated. A reassessment of the
project costs at that time showed an increase from appraisal estimate of
US$4.3 million to US$9.3 million equivalent.  Since neither OPT nor
Government could finance such a cost overrun, Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (France), (CCCE), was requested to lend the additional funds
needed.  A joint IDA/CCCE mission reappraised the project in late 1975 and on
the basis of this appraisal it was decided to split the project into two
phases, the First, estimated to cost US$6.8 million equivalent, to be
financed by the IDA Credit 321-MLI of US$3.6 million, by a CCCE loan of
US$2.2 million equivalent, and the balance, US$1 million, by OPT itself. IDA
and CCCE also informed Government that, subject to satisfactory progress
in the implementation of the first phase, they would later assist with the
second phase. The first phase, which contained only the Bamako-Segou section
of the microwave link, switching equipment in three provincial towns, and
cable work in Bamako, was successfully completed in 1979, except for a
relatively minor amount of cable works in Bamako (paragraph 2.04).   A
completion report has been distributed in September 1981.
1.21      Based on the lessons learned during its involvement since 1972, the
World Bank Croup should, while supporting balanced investments in the sector
through a second telecommunications credit, aim at a considerable
institutional improvement and development. It is not clear that either of



- 10 -
these points would be sufficiently taken care of without the proposed Bank
Group involvement.  The proposed rnanagerial and financial covenants (Chapter
VI) and performance indicators (paragraph 2.18) will assist to ensure that
the telecommunications sector draiNs proper benefits from the Worid Bank
Group's proposed involvement. OPr's compliance with such covenants and
performance indicators will be insisted on by close supervision.
1.22      OPT has a tentative program of investments 1981-1985 for the postal
sector; the cost is about MF 2.8 billion (US$6.4 million) with a foreign
exchange component of MF 0.7 billion (US$1.6 million). The progran covers
the construction of a number of buildings for post offices and other postal
activities, the acquisition and installation of mechanical facilities for
sorting of mail, and the provision of vehicles for mobile post offices in
rural areas and other purposes. The program was not firmed up at the time of
the visit of the appraisal mission, and the second telecommunications project
as appraised covers no postal element.
Il. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
2.01      The telecommunications investment program has been designed to meet
the development objectives set out in paragraph 1.15. It has been accepted
by Government and is not expected to change significantly.  Through their
representatives on the OPT Board of Directors, the Ministries of Finance and
Plan have participated in the approval process of the program. These
Ministries are aware of OPT's need for assured sources of long-term funds in
order to realize program commitments.
2.02      The telecommunications investment program covers, in principle, the
years 1981-1985, the same period as the national five-year plan for economic
and social development. The details of the progran are at Annex 4; it
includes briefly the followinq:
(a) completion of some ongoing works (paragraph 2.04);
(b) the proposed second telecommunications project (paragraph
2.07); and
(c)  other program works (paragraph 2.05).
2.03      The complete telecomnmuniications investment program is estimated to
cost about MF 25.0 billion (US$50.1 million) with a foreign exchange
component of MF 20.4 billion (US$40.8 million) (paragraph 1.16 and Annex 5).
2.04      An amount of local cable, that belongs to the first
telecommunications project (Annex 4, paragraph 2(a) remains to be installed.



- il -
Material has been delivered to Bamako and the installation will be completed
during 1981.  Only local funds are needed for the work; these funds are
available.
2.05       In summary (details in Annex 4, item 2(c), the following is
included in 'other program works":
(a)  about 900 km of microwave transmission Links, between
Bamako and the borders of Senegal and of Upper Volta, one
international switching center, three local telephone
exchanges and cable networks, all within the PANAFTEL
concept;
(b)  two microwave transmission links, between Mopti and the
Upper Volta border and between Gao and the Niger border,
five local telephone exchanges with local cable networks
and subscriber installations, within the Liptako-Gourma
concept;
(c)  three microwave transmission links, between Sikasso and
Ivory Coast border, Bamako and Guinea border, Kayes and
Nioro, within the ECOWAS concept; and
(d)  various rehabilitation works and exchange interworking
equipment.
These items are commensurate with the investment program goals (paragraph
1.15).
Project Concept
2.06       The works included in the project proposed in this report
constitute a central portion of OPT's 1981-85 investment program. About
one-half of the project is made up of the second portion of the project
appraised and accepted for IDA financing in 1972 and later (1975) split in
two phases (paragraph 1.20). Some essential elements of the second phase:
rural coverage, telex, and local cable network, have been enlarged. The
project will enable OPT to acquire and install physical facilities, essential
for improving and expanding its services. It also aims at institutional
development of OPT and, in particular its telecommunications branch:
financial management, plaanning and programing, statistics. Broadly, the
project has been designed to help foster, among OPT's management and staff
and among its clients, the concept of availability of a well-functioning
national telecommunications network and the realization by Government and the
public of the advantages thdt can be had if they utilize this network for
ddministration, commerce, transport management, and for economic and social
development in general.  The promotion of such aspects has not been practical
so far, in view of the paucity of telecommunications installations and the
poor services offered in most parts of the country (paragraphs 1.07-1.09).



- 12 -
The project will also help OPT ïmprove its financial basis for further
expansion (paragraph 5.09).
Project Composition
2.07       Details of the composition of the second telecommunications project
are given at Annex 4 paragraph 2(b). In summary, the project will provide
for the following (references are rnade to the objectives outlined in
paragraph 1.15):
Component A (to be financed by CCCE (paragraph 2.12)
(a) construction of a new automatic telephone exchange and
expansion work at one existing exchange
(paragraph 1.15(d);
(b) construction of a microwave radio relay link on the route
Segou-Sevare, with some spur links (paragraphs 1.15(a)
and (b);
(c) provision of tools and instruments for installation,
operation and maintenance; and
(d)  provision of technical assistance for design, engineering
and maintenance of installations and for local training;
fellowships for trairiing abroad (paragraph 1.15(h).
Component B (to be financed by IDA (paragraph 2.13) and OPT)
(e) a substantial expansion of the` local cable network in
Bamako; new construct;ion of such networks at eight
provincial cities; proviLsion of material and equipment to
connect new subscribers (paragraph 1.15(e);
(f)  construction of VHF, UHF-, and SHF links to serve district
and subdistrict centers and other important rural
development centers, particularly in the Niger/Bani delta
and in the southern agricultural areas (paragraph
1.15(b);
(g)  installation of a new telex exchange in Bamako; provision
of teleprinters; and installation of voice frequency
telegraph equipment needJed to connect remote teleprinter
installations to the Bamako telex center (paragraph
1.15(g);
'h) provision of tools, instruments, and vehicles, for
insta'latio-, operation and maintenance; and



- 13 -
(i)  provision of technical assistance for design engineering
and maintenance of installations and for local training;
fellowships for training abroad; local training equipment
and material (paragraph 1.15(h).
Two ddvances have been granted by IDA under the project preparation
facility (PPF): in November 1978, US$130,000 for engineering studies
(paragraph 2.09) relating to items (a), (b) and (e), and in July 1979,
US$180,000 for financial management consultancy services (paragraph 4.04).
Project Cost
2.08      Estimated cost of the second telecommunications project is about
MF 12.7 billion (US$25.3 million) with a foreign exchange component of MF 9.1
billion (US$18.3 million). The costs are summarized in the following table;
details are at Annex 5. Customs duties and taxes are not included, as OPT is
exempted from such charges.
----MF Bi1lion---      ---US$ Million---
Item                               Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Local telephone network                    2.3    2.0    4.3    4.6    4.0    8.6
Interurban network                         0.2    3.1    3.3    0.3    6.3    6.6
Telex                                      0.0    0.7    0.7    0.0    1.3    1.3
Tools, instruments, vehicles               -      0.5    0.5    -         0.9    0.9
Technical assistance and training          -      0.7    0.7    0.1    1.5    1.6
Subtotal                             2.5    7.0    9.5    5.0   14.0   19.0
Physical contingencies                     0.1    0.3    0.4    0.2    0.6    0.8
Price contingencies                        0.9    1.7    2.6    1.8    3.4    5.2
PPF                                        -      0.2    0.2    -         0.3    0.3
Total Cost                           3.5    9.1   12.7    7.0   18.3   25.3
2.09       The consultants engaged under the first PPF advance have made
detailed plans and cost estimates for cable work, switching, and microwave
links. The results have been discussed with OPT and with IDA. The
consultants' estimates are generally on the higher side, which has to be
accepted in view of high transportation and installation costs, relatively
small quantities of each type of equipment and material, and--for Component A
not to be financed by IDA--restricted bidding. The consultancy firm engaged
under the first PPF advance had a contract based on manmonth costs plus air
transport; it worked out to a total average manmonth cost of approximately
F 40,000. The consultancy firm engaged under the second PPF advance has a
contract based on a manmonth cost of US$10,000. For technical assistance
expertise to be provided by proceeds of the proposed IDA credit the average
manmonth cost, including international travel and subsistence, as well as



- 14 -
quantity and price contingencies, has been estimated at US$15,000 for about
60 months.
2.10       In view of the completed designs for the bigger parts of the
project, a physical contingency allowance of only 5 percent has been provided
for all supplies, except local cables with accessories; contingency is not
called for in these cases. Five percent has also been provided for
engineering and installation work and 10 percent for technical assistance and
training.  For all foreign costs price contingencies have been computed using
the following rates: 1981 9 percent, 1982 8.5 percent; 1983-1985 7.5 percent
and 1986-1987 6 percent.  These percentages are considered adequate in view
of the fact that the,costs on the world market for telecommunications
equipment are declining, due to tlhe rapid technological advance.  Price
contingencies for local costs have been calculated at 10 percent per year
based on prevailing inflation raties. The resulting overall price escalation
amounts to about 26 percent of thie estimated base cost plus physical
contingencies.
Project Financing
2.11       The project cost is proposed to be financed as follows:
Local       Forei n    Total   % of Total
U5  MlIlonIi          Project Cost
Component A
OCCE                 0.4          7.3        7.7         31
Component B
IDA                  2.5         11.0       13.5         53
OPT                  4.1          -          4.1         16
Subtotali
Component B   6.6           11.0       17.6         69
Total          7.0         18.3       25.3         100
2.12       Arrangements for co-financing (parallel financing) by CCCE (France)
are being made. CCCE is considering a request that it accord a credit for
procurement of certain equipment and installation services from French
suppliers as well as the provision by French companies of technical
assistance and training of OPI staff in relation to this same equipment.  The



- 15 -
total amount of the CCCE credit is US$7.7 million equivalent.  The conditions
have not yet been negotiated but in discussions between the mission and
representatives of CCCE the mission has been made to understand that it will
be a credit to Government for onlending to OPT on conditions similar to other
recent loans, that is 6 percent interest per annum and repayment over 15
years including 5 years of grace (paragraph 6.01 (il).
2.13      An IDA credit of SDR 11.8 million (equal to US$13.5 million using
the rate of SOR 1.00 equals US$1.15118) to the Government of Mal! on standard
IDA credit terms is proposed. In line with conditions actually applied in
Covernment's onlending to public enterprises in Mali, the proceeds of the
proposed IDA credit would be onlent to OPT at an annual interest rate of
10.6 percent and with repayment over a 20-year period, which includes five
years of grace. If Mali joins the Western African Monetary Union the rate of
annual interest will be changed to a rate applied by the Union member
countries for similar lending. OPT will cover the foreign exchange risk.
Assurances in these regards have been obtained during negotiations.  The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and OPT,
acceptable to IDA and reflecting the above conditions, would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (paragraph 6.01 (i).
2.14      OPT will contribute a total of US$4.1 million equivalent or 59
percent of local project costs (mainly building and network construction
costs and local staff costs), to be financed by funds generated in its
operations. See further paragraph 5.09.
Procurement
2.15      For procurement of items under Component A (paragraph 2.07), the
rules of CCCE apply. All equipment to be financed by proceeds of the
proposed IDA credit (in Component B) will be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB), except for a few items costing a total of about
US$350,000. The items excluded from ICB are accessories, tools, instruments,
and vehicles, and contracts for the laying of cables and construction of
ducts, with each contract costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. Such
contracts would be awarded following OPT procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory. For procurement of items, the contracts of w4hich are expected
to amount to US$200,000 or more, the tender documentation will be submitted
for IDA comments before its release to bidders. Consultants will be engaged
in compliance with Bank's guidelines.
Disbursements
2.16      The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit will be allocated on the
basis of the table below.



- 16 -
Category                                                  US$ 0OO's
(a)  Cables, auxiliaries, subscriber material                    3,100
(b)  Radio link equipment and material                           2,300
(c)  Telex, teleprinters, voice frequency equipment              1,600
(d) Installation and connection of cables,
construction of ducts                                    2,400
(e)  Vehicles                                                      400
(f)  Tools, instruments, trairning equipment                       300
(g)  Technical assistance, training                              1,100
(h)  An unallocated amount transferrable to
categories (a)-(e) as appropriate                         1,990
(i)  Two advances under project preparation facility               310
Total                                                13,500
For each item in categories (a), i(b), (c), (e) and (f), disbursement would
cover 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures and 90 percent of the
local expenditures.  Disbursement against category (d) will cover 100 percent
of foreign exchange expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures. For
category (g), disbursement would cover 100 percent of total contract cost.
An estimated schedule of disbursement is given at Annex 6.  The schedule has
been prepared after a review of disbursement history for similar projects and
for the region and the country, and on the assumption that final acceptance
and disbursement of guarantee retientions will not be completed until about
two years after scheduled preliminary acceptance.
Project Implementation
2.17       OPT will be responsible for implementation.  Considering the
technical assistance being made available to OPT by proceeds of the IDA
credit, as well as by the CCCE contribution (paragraph 2.12) and various
sources of grants (paragraph 4.06), this arrangement is satisfactory.
Consultants will prepare technical specifications and assist OPT in
evaluation and in the preparation of contract documents. Suppliers will
install equipment for telephone exchanges, for radio links, and for the telex
exchange. Certain portions of the local cable network construction will be
done by subcontractors; the remainder by OPT workforce, which will also
install telephone and telex subscriber equipment. For a year, in certain
cases two years, expatriate experts will assist OPT with operation and
maintenance of complicated installations, and at the same time train Malians
on the job.  A project implementaition schedule which has been agreed at
negotiations is at Annex 7.  Assurance has been obtained that Government and
OPT take all necessary steps to ensure adherence to the schedule. (The
schedule at Annex 7 has been prepared on the assumptions that the IDA credit
and the CCCE loan will be approved in December 1981. If these approvals
would take place later than the period mentioned, the project implementation



- 17 -
schedule will be modified accordingly.  Similar situations might cause delay
in other program works, except for the PANAFTEL project (Annex 4 paragraph
2(c), which is already about 50 percent completed).
Performance Indicators
2.18       Indicators, to help OPT's management and IDA monitor project
implementation and operational and financial performance, are given at
Annex 8. The performance indicators and the expected annual variations have
been chosen so as to demonstrate OPT's degree of success in installation of
equipment, in making agreed staffing improvements, in keeping down the level
of outstanding subscriber accounts receivable, and in improving its financial
performance. They have been discussed and agreed during negotiations and
will be included in OPT's quarterly reports to IDA. Financial reports will
be transmitted as per paragraph 4.10.
III. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Telecommunications and Development
3.01       The economic analysis discussed in this chapter relates, unless
otherwise indicated, to the 1981-1985 investment program, of which the second
telecommunications project forms an integral part. The program is designed
to attain the objectives of the telecommunications sector, which objectives
have been harmonized with the Mali 1981-1985 plan for econamic and social
development (paragraphs 1.14 and 1.15).  The volume of the progran is
commensurate with OPT's managerial, personnel, and financial resources.
Although the program will not eliminate unsatisfied demand for communications
or connections, it will enable OPT to take an important step in that
direction, significantly improving the present situation and alleviating some
of the difficulties indicated in paragraphs 3.02 through 3.04.
3.02       Inside Bamako and three provincial cities and between them, the
telephone services function reasonably well, apart from difficulties caused
by the insufficiency of the local cable networks (paragraph 1.08). However,
the major portion of the domestic long distance network is available for a
limited number of hours, is congested during office hours and is often
faulty. The rural network is very inadequate and unreliable, with heavy
congestion during business hours, and poor speech quality (paragraph 1.09).
3.03       In the current unsatisfactory situation, commercial, agricultural,
transport, and government administrative efforts are seriously hampered,
particularly so by the inadequacy or unavallability of communications
channels between Bamako and five of the seven regional capitals and between
the regional capitals and the district and subdistrict centers. For example,
one of the most important long distance telecommunications links in the
country is between Bamako and Mopti, which, in addition to being a regional



- 18 -
capital, is the center for the agriculturally important Niger/Bani "delta"
of about 30,000 sq km area. It is also the center of fish processing for
export and of tourist activity. The communication link between Bamako and
Mopti consists only of an HF circuit, open nominally four hours per day,
always heavily congested, and often interrupted due to power or equipment
failures or to atmospheric disturbances. More than 50 percent of the call
bookings are regularly cancelled due to excessive waiting times. Fran the
public telephone at Mopti, less than an average of one call per day is
established in spite of a heavy demand. No telex facilities are available at
Mopti or at other provincial cities, except one at Segou.
3.04       Such lack of access to rapidly established telecommunications over
most of the vast expanse of Mali has created significant problems or
aggravated existing problems in the coordination and management of all
sectors including agriculture. Current information on demand, availability,
and prices of agricultural input;s and commodities is not available in many
parts of the contry. The shortcomings of telecommunications also make
management of the transport sect;or very difficult. The quasi-impossibility
to coordinate transport vehicles, because of the insufficient
telecommunications, is of economic consequence in view of the scarcity of
means of transportation in the country, the generally poor road situation,
and the slowness of railway and river transportation. Instead of a situation
where adequate telecommunications services couid help contain the pressure on
the strained transport system and help reduce fuel consumption, the present
inadequacy of these services exaggerates the burden on the transport system.
The result is that seed and fertilizer do not arrive in a timely manner and
agricultural products may not be collected for months. In spite of loads
waiting to be picked up, a relatively large number of empty trucks are
frequently observed which, for lack of telecommunications, have not been
informed of the loads being available. For similar reason, faulty trucks
often have to stand idie for excessive-periods waiting for spare parts. The
health services are hampered by the difficulty, or sometimes impossibility,
to telephone for advice, for medicine, and for means of transporting a
patient to a hospital.  This situation has had, as one  consequence, the
difficulty to pursuade medically qualified staff to take residential
assignments at provincial cities and towns, even when such staff would
otherwise be available.
Distribution of Benefits
3.05       Most segments of Malian society will feel, directly or indirectly,
the benefits of the OPT 1981-1985 investment program, since its completion
will contribute to greater efficiency in business, transport management,
Government administration, as well as in programs for rural development and
for health and educational services.
3.06       By end of 1985, the access to the telecommunications network, for
local, interurban and international telephone calls and for telex messages,
should have improved significantly along with the quality of communications



- 19 -
and the rapidity of call establishment.  Using microwave links it would also
be possible to transmit radio broadeasting programs of good technical quality
from Bamako for retransmission at other centers, like Kayes, Sikasso, and
Mopti. This would give important support to administration and contribute
towards economie and social development and unification of the country.
3.07       The telephone density in principal urban areas would have increased
by end 1985 to 0.59 DEL per 100 inhabitants from 0.47 by end of 1980.   In
other areas, mainly rural, the increase would be from 0.01 DEL per 100
inhabitants to 0.04. Although the level of the density will still be much
higher in the principal urban areas than in the rest of the country, the
relative increase is biggest in the latter (400 percent as against 26
percent). The number of public telephones will also increase more in rural
than in urban areas. These developments, together with the increased
penetration and the improved speech quality would be beneficial to all rural
activities, including those of small farmers and small businessmen and their
familles.
3.08       Inside Bamako and other big cities, the greatest benefits would
flow to government administration, to parastatals and to private commerce.
Benefits would also be reaped by resident representatives of foreign
countries arid of international organizations and by the limited number of
private citizens nio can afford to pay the relatively high cost of a
telephone installation, A large number of market-goers and city residents,
however, will be able to get acceptable service via public telephones. The
expected flow of benefits is acceptable, but, in addition, the tariff
structure should be reviewed with the aim that it can in the future guide the
flow of benefits better than at present (paragraph 3.13).
Tariff Policies
3.09       Tariffs for the installation, connection, and use of telephone and
telex facilities in subscribers' premises, for the use of public telephones
and telex facilities, and for telegrams are established in a decree issued by
the supervisory minister after they have been accepted by OPT's Board of
Directors. The installation and connection charges were increased by about
50 percent in July 1979. Other rates have not been changed since 1975.
3.10       The tariff structure is complicated, as can be seen at Annex 9,
which gives an excerpt of the actual tariffs. The structure is old and
allocational aspects have not been a prime factor in its design, nor in the
level of the rates. The installation and connection charges being together
about US$300 are higher than in most countries, it has the good effect of
discouraging low consumption users from applying for subscription. Charges
for a subscriber in a rural town are about 40 percent lower than for a
corresponding subscriber in Bamako, which is reasonable. The annual rent of
about US$64, is at worid average level. It does not vary much between rural
and urban subscribers. In a town with less than 100 subscribers, the local
calls are free.  At bigger centers, the charge for an untimed local call-is



- 20 -
US cents 20.5, almost a world record. This high charge may be justifiable in
the present situation, but it should be reviewed so as not to act as a
deterrent when facilities have been expanded so that they cdn handle more
trafflc than at present (paragraph 3.11). Interurban call charges are also
comparatively high; they ought ico be reconsidered, in connection with the
tariff study (paragraph 3.11), particularly when the facilities are no longer
oversaturated as at present. OPT's domestic rates for postal/financial
services were increased by about 413 percent on the average, as from July 1,
1981. An increase of domestie telephone tariffs, by about 25 percent on the
average, is under preparation (September 1981). It is expected that d decree
for such increase will be issued before the proposed credit agreement is
signed; if this does not occur it will be a condition for effectiveness.
3.11       OPT will undertake a study of its tariff structure under terms of
reference agreed during the negotiations (terms of reference are at Annex
10).  The study should be completed by December 31, 1982 and the results and
implementation implications be reviewed with IDA not later than June 30,
1983. The study should compute the costs of various elements of the
telecommunications services provided, as against the estimated demand for
such services of the various groups of present and potential users. It
should attempt to simplify and rationalize the tariff structure and level and
ascertain what changes, if any, are required to improve the channeling of
demand to high productivity users. It should also aim at a distribution of
the benefits of investments throughout the entire country in such a manner as
to promote equity and balance aind to effectively support Government and
private efforts for economic and social development. In OPT's application of
the agreed outcome of the study, it will take into account IDA's requirement
for the rate of returri on investments, as well as the general cost variation
in Mali.
Least Cost Solution
3.12      The engineering desicin of the new facilities in the
telecommunications network are based on ehat is considered to be appropriate
technology and standard methods for minimizing capital and recurrent costs
(see paragraph 2.09).  Experiencecl consultants have been employed in
connection with the planning and design of each component, and appropriate
intervals for extension of the various types of plant have been adopted. In
regard to cables and accessories for local network, it has been assumed that
the supply contract will call for delivery in installments; the work with
laying and connection of the cables will go on during the whole project
period and the cables that have been installed by the end of this period
would not have to be expanded until after 1989.  This is normal engineering
practice in city networks.
3.13      For the programmed expansion of the presently existing central
offices and for installation of new ones, stored program controlled crossbar
equipment of recent design will be used, since Malian installation and
maintenance personnel are familiar with this kind of equipment, and since



- 21 -
appropriate arrangements have been made in the stores organization and in
staff training.  These works are to be financed by CCCE and tendering
restricted to French suppliers. For traffie between Bamako and regional
capitals, subscriber dialing will be used, instead of operator assisted
calls. Automatic traffie handling is considered to be preferable despite
this solution being somewhat less labor intensive and slightly more demanding
on initial capital. This is primarily because it has distinct time,
reliability, and efficiency advantages, for both CPT and the customers,
particularly on these high traffic routes, with a significant portion of the
traffic originating beyond the cities in question, in manual exchange areas.
Automatic operation also reduces misunderstandings due to linguistic
differences. One of the problems in existing long distance transmission has
been the power supply to relay stations along the routes. The new
installations will be fed by troublefree solar batteries whenever practical.
Return on Investment
3.14      The internal financial rate of return on the telecommunications
project and ongoing works is 15 percent. This rate of return does not take
into consideration a major portion of the indirect and external benefits
accruing to non-users of the service nor does it include the consumer surplus
which is attributable to telephone users. While the benefits to non-users
are not quantifiable, a minimum estimate of consumer surplus can be made by
assuming that subscribers, old and new, are willing to pay the same amount in
real terms for service in future years as present clients are paying.
Adjusting for this assumption, the quantifiable economic rate of return
would be 25 percent. See Annex 11. Sensitivity analyses indicate that an
increase of 10 percent in capital investment costs would result in a return
of 23 percent; and a 10 percent decrease in revenue would result in a 22
percent return. Were both of these situations experienced, the rate of
return would decrease to 20 percent.
Risk
3.15      In principle, the second telecommunications project will be
exposed to the same problems as most World Bank group financed projects in
Mali. These problems are related to, in general, the relatively loose work
discipline, to the inadequate time planning and efficiency, and to the
continual difficulty to get local civil works enterprises to comply with
contracted time schedules.
3.16      For the second telecommunications project, specific measures have
been envisaged, however, aiming at a sufficient increase in project execution
efficiency from that experienced in the first project. Some, for example
those relating to improving the Beneficiary's accounting and financial
management, were conditions of negotiations and have been met satisfactorily;
on others, agreement has been obtained during negotiations (paragraph 6.02).
Project implementation, including civil construction, has also been discussed
at negotiations (paragraph 2.17). Furthermore, the set of performance



- 22 -
indicators (paragraph 2.18 and Annex 8), which has been discussed and agreed
during negotiations, has been chosen so as to reflect clearly the technical
implementation activity and management performance.  Project supervision
should allow frequent verification of adherence to project execution
schedules, technical assistance commitments, and credit conditions. Failure
of Borrower or Beneficiary to comply with agreed credit conditions will give
IDA the right to suspend disbursements. With these safeguards it is believed
that the risk for delays in project execution wouid be acceptable.
3.17      The proposed project, like telecommunications projects in general,
comprises a large number of relatively independent activities, and,
therefore, a delay in completion of some works wouid not normally prevent the
use of other newly created assets. Also, when delays occur in
telecommunications projects, costs and benefits are often delayed in roughly
the same degree, so that the impact of the delay on the rate of return may
not be significant.
Environmental and Health Aspect,
3.18      Telecommunications projects have very little direct impact on the
environment.  The plant is mostly unseen and consumes very little energy.
Because it is an alternative to communications involvino ohysica' movement,
telecommunications tend to promote energy conservations, reduce environmental
pollution, and facilitate health delivery and emergency care.
IV. TIIE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Organization
4.01      OPT was established by ordinance on November 29, 1960 as a
Government-owned entity. Its statute was changed by Law No. 81-16/AN-RM
enacted on March 3, 1981; the Law abrogates the Ordonnance of 1960. The
implementation decree No. 89/PG-RM was promulgated on April 9, 1981.  OPT is
governed by a fifteen-member Board of Directors under the chairmanship of the
Minister responsible for telecommunications, presently the Minister of
Information and Telecommunications or his representative. A management
committee has been instituted by the Law to advise the Director General, wo
is the Chief Executive Officer of OPT. He is appointed by the Government and
has responsibility for the administrative, technical and financial activities
of the entity. OPT's central office is divided into two major
departments--Postal/Financial and Telecommunications--each of which is headed
by a director, and a central accounts unit, headed by OPT's official
accountant. OPT's activities in each region (eight inclusive Bamako) is
headed by a regional director responsible to the Director General. An
organization chart is at Annex 12.  The Postal/Financial Department provides
the usual postal services, countrywide public cheeking account and savings
bank services.



- 23 -
4.02       The Law establishes OPT as a public enterprise of an administrative
character and endows it with legal personality and financial autonoamy.  In
practice, however, financial autoriomy is inadequate. OPT has been reauired
to bank mairly with the Public Treasury with the consequence that deposited
funds have frequently been unavailable to rneet OPT's obligations
(paragraph 5.05). The Law allows it, however, to barik with the Central Bank
of Mali or the postal checking service as alternative to Treasury, and in
August 1981 the Minister of Finance has ordered thdt OPT's telecommunications
services receipts can be deposited in bank accounts opened in the name of the
telecommunications accounting section in any bank in Mali. Details of
operation are being worked out and it is likely that the arrangement will
facilitate significantly that local funds are available to the
telecommunications services as needed.
Management and Control
4.03       OPT operates under an annual budget which limits expenditures and
estimates revenues but otherwise has not in the past set out specific goals.
To control expenditures against the approved budget, all requests are cleared
through a special unit attached to the Director General's office. Other than
budgetary control, financial management has been nonexistant. The new
legislation (paragraph 4.01) enables, however, a delegation of authority
throughout the OPT and clarifies internal relationships, which have been
ambiguous. Thus, for example, the Directors of Telecommunications and of
Postal/Financial Services are now independently responsible to the Director
General for all aspects of their operational and investment progrdms,
determined by the government approved budgets; the responsibility includes
inter alia the approval of budgetary expenditures and the staffing of the two
sectors. The decree referred to in paragraph 4.01 also institutes d division
of economic studies and finance. This division shall coordinate the
objectives for operations as well as all financial activities of OPT,
including among other things a management information system.
4.04       Accounting, which is the backbone of financial management, has been
weak and the function scattered among three departments. The accounting
system follows closely the French Plan Comptable and sepdrate accounts are
maintained for the Telecommunications and the Postal/Financial Services.  Two
experts have begun work in Bamako in August 1981 to assist in strengthening
the accouriting and findncial functions. Funding has been provided by a PPF
advance (paragraph 2.07), and by BEPTOM. Memorandum commercial accounts weill
be used for the purpose of computing annual rate of return on net value of
fixed assets in operation as revalued (paragraphs 5.06 and 5.12).
Billing and Collection
4.05       The billing and collection function has been a serious problem
despite the relatively small number of subscribers. The preparation and
distribution of the bills have been several months late; in 1979 the
collection from the private sector was equal to the amount billed for that
year and from the public sector it was about 60 percent of the amount
billed. In February 1981, the billing arid collection function was put on a



- 24 -
small computer, which after initial difficulties contributes significantly to
easing the problems; thus, the billing is now less than two months late.
Further improvements are necessary, however, and assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that Government and OPT will establish
satisfactory arrangements in this respect. It will be a condition of the
credit that OPT sends to IDA for comments, a plan covering all its billing
and collection operations and subsequent to IDA comments applies the plan in
these operations (paragraph 6.03). In addition, a factor to indicate
improvement in collections is among the performance indicators (paragraph
2.18 and Annex 8 point 9).  In regard to government administration bills
specidl medsures are being considered; for other subscribers services is
suspended if payment for a bill has not been received within a specified
period. Collection from Government is discussed further in paragraph 5.02.
Inventory
4.06       OPT's stock of supplies and spare parts is ostensibly too large and
needs to be reduced. A proper inventory has been taken, the valuation of the
stocks is being reviewed, and obsolete and deteriorated items purged.
The arrangements are made with t;he collaboration of the Auditors dnd the
financial expert (paragraph 4.04) to correct the situation by end 1981.
Purchasing, and stocking pOIiCifs a1s well as control measures appear to have
been haphazard; the matter is beingi considered by OPT management.
Technical Assistance, Staff and Tr.aining
4.07       Within the tramework of contracts for supply and instalLation of
switching and microwave equipment under the first project, OPT was able to
retain experts for two years, alfter commissioning of the various
installations, to assist in operatioon and maintenance of the equipment and to
train OPT staff on the job. Similair arrangements are envisaged in the
future. In addition OPT has made arrangements for technical assistance as
follows:
(a) eighteen manmonths of expertise to help reorganize the
financial management of OPT arid to train on the job; this
is financed by an IDA PPIF advance and has commenced in
July 1981;
(b) five experts provided by French bilateral aid via Bureau
des Etudes des Postes et Telecommunications (BEPTOM),
were in Mati during the visit of the mission: (i) for
the office of the Director General, (ii) for microwave
links, (iii) for local cable installation, (iv) for OPT
accounting, and (v) for computerization of the handling
of subscribers' bills. The latter was on a contract
covering repeated short-term missions; the others are
provided on a long-term basis. All five have been or are
giving on the job training in addition to their advisory
function;



- 25 -
(c)  short-term experts provided by AfDB and UAPT to define
and recommend basic plans for engineering of the OPT
networks.  The work is envisaged to start in November
1981 and to be completed in about six months time;
(d) assistance from the Swiss PTT, financed by Swiss
bilateral aid. This assistance, which is in the field of
local cable network construction and includes an
important training component, began during the autunu of
1980; it is given by a team of three t) four experts and
will continue at least through 1982.
IDA will follow closely the progress and impac! of these items of
assistance. The work of the financial expert (a) and the one serving in the
office of the Director General (b)(i) is coordinated by the Director General,
that of the accounting expert (b)(iv) by OPT's &fficial accountarit; the work
of the other experts by the Director, Telecommunications Department. This
arrangement is satisfactory.
4.08      The numbers of OPT staff during the last four years is show) in the
following table.
(Figures refer to year end)
Number of Tele-
Telecom.   Postal/Fin.    Common                 com. Staff1 per
Year  Services,    Services , Services   Total             1,000 DELs
1977    785           589            259      1,633           233
1978    837           578            278     1,693            250
1979    851           606            322      1,779           247
1980    857           598            311     1,766            217
1/  Staff of telecommunications services plus a proportionate share
of the staff of Common Services.
There has been a freeze on the staff during the last year and the number of
telecommunications staff per 1,000 DELs has decreased. As this ratio is
still much too high--it ought to be reduced to less than one half--it has
been agreed that OPT ensures further reduction; the ratio is among the
performance indicators agreed at negotiations (Annex 8 item 4). The table
below shows the composition of the staff of the Telecommunications Department
at the end of 1979.



- 26 -
In Seven   In Bamako and
Category                                        Regions  at Headquarters  Total
Graduate engineers                                       3                8            il
Senior technical and administrative staff               12               22            34
Technicians and administrative st;aff                   47              167          214
Technical operators and junior admiri. staff            78              185          263
Telephone operators                                     32             148            180
Others                                                  30             119           149
Total                                          202             649           851
Considering the extent of technical'Ly advanced equipment that will be
provided during the 1981-1985 invesitment program, the senior technical staff
needs to be increased. The Director of Telecommunications Department is
aware of this and also of other training needs and is making arrangements for
various short-term courses.
4.09         Institutionalized training of OPT staff is provided for:
(a)  senior staff, in France, Switzerland, USSR, etc.;
(b)  higher-middle level staff, at the multinational
telecommunications school Rufisque (Senegal) and at the
multinational postal school Abidjan (Ivory Coast); and
(c)  other staff, at the national`posts and telecommunications
school in Bamako. This school is under the Ministry of
Education and has in the past been acting quite
independently of OPT's needs of staff, despite OPT being
its main customer. Recently the situation has changed,
however, and both its intake of new students and
its program of training dire now under the surveillance of
a commission with members from the Ministry of Education,
the Departments of General Affairs, of Posts, and of
Telecommunications of OPT, Management of the School, the
corps of teachers, ancd two elected students. The
arrangement is satisfactcory.
Audit
4.10       The accounts of OPT have been audited since 1972 by an independent
external accounting firm. However" due to delays in closing the accounts and
in annual re-engagement of auditors, the audits are perennially late. In
addition, the auditor has been unable to certify the accounts and has



- 27 -
repeatedly recommended actions needed to remedy the situation.  OPT is now
taking systematic action on the various recommendatioris in the 1979 audit
report.  The inventory reassessment has been completed  (paragrdph 4.06) and
the uncIAssified transactions reduced to a reasonable level.  The general
ldck of interrnal control, evidenced in the audit report, is addressed by the
financial expert (paragraph 4.04). OPT statute requires that unaudited
accounts be presented to the Board of Directors at the end of March, and a
commitment has been obtained during negotiations that OPT trdnsmit to IDA
copy of its unaudited accounts within four months of the end of the fiscal
years.  The same auditor has now been retained for 1980 and 1981 accounts and
he started work on the 1980 accounts in October 1981.  There is no reason to
coniclude that audit reports cannot ultimately be issued within six months of
the end of the year, as is required under the first credit but, in order to
allow some time for adjustment, it has beeti agreed that IDA be provided with
an dudit report of the 1981 accounts before October 1, 1982 and before July 1
in 1983 and thereafter (paragraph 6.02 (f).
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.01       OPT is dn entity  providing postal, public checking, money
orders, savings, and telecommunications services.  Separate accounts are
maintained for the Postal/Financial Services and the Telecommunications
Service.  It is generally understood, although not an éxplicit policy, that
the Postal/Financial Services should try to break even and that the
Telecommunicat ions Service should make a profit and finance a part of the
telecommunications investment program. The law stipulates that OPTts
consolidated budget should be balanced.
Past Financidl Performance
5.02       The past financial performance of OPT (Annex 14), as can be seen
from the summary stdtements given below, has not been satisfactory.
----------MF Million-----------
1977     1978    1979  1980 (Est.)
Operatirig iricome                2,001    2,109   2,628    4,096
Operating expense                 1,918   2,172   2,549       2,816
Interest expense                     53       50       73        65
Net income (loss)                    30    (113)        6    1,215
Operating ratio              (%)    96       103       97        69



-. 28 -
A better but still unsatisfactory performance by the Telecommunications
Services (Annex 15) is summarized below.
- ---------MF Million-
1977    1978    1979  1980 (Est.)
Operating income                 1,174   1,320   1,881    3,373
Operating expense                1,126   1,306   1,609    1,928
Interest expense                    il      45       70        65
Net income (loss)               -37         (31)    202    1,380
Operating ratio             (%)    96       99       85        57
Rate of return on average
net fixed assets in use
at book values (%)                 2        1       6        25
Performance in 1979 was considerably better than in previous years and in
1980 it is estimated to have been much better than in 1979.  Several factors
combined contributed to the improvement in 1980, notably a significant
increase in the number of connected subscribers and an increase in traffic
due to automatie local service and long distance dialing as a result of the
first telecommunications project.  In 1980 the rate of return on revalued net
fixed assets in use is estimated at about 13 percent, which is above the 10
percent return required under the first IDA credit. Accounts receivable have
continued to increase. This was due in large part to the growth in the
Goverriment's unpaid telephone an(d telex bills.  Government has made
arrangements to settle its telecommiunications arrears, which currently amount
to about MF 2,512 million (US$5.0 million). As from 1981 the various
ministries and other organisms of Government are budgeting individually for
their costs of telecommunications and postal services.  During negotiations a
commitment has been obtained that henceforth government pay, on a current
basis, for the services rendered by OPT.  This will include a satisfactory
arrangement to enforce payments.  Postal and financial services of OPT have
been operating at a loss for at least the past eight years.  Under the first
IDA credit Government is committed to reimburse OPT for the deficit incurred
and this was done through 1975. However, no payment has been made since 1976
and the amount owed to OPT by Government reached an estimated MF 571 million
at the end of 1980. Government has made arrangements to settle these
arrears.
5.03       In spite of its obligaticins under the project and subsidiary
agreements, OPT has not yet begun to repay the funds onlent by the Government
within Credit 321-MLI or to pay the required interest on this onlending.
The amount of the obligation at the end of 1980 is estimated to be MF 2,010
million, the exact amount to be det;ermined.  Furthermore, Government has
recently (August 1981) decided 1hat; the benefit of the CCCE's conversion of
its loan to a grant will not be passed on to OPT. OPT must, therefore, enter



- 29 -
into its books the liabilities in question and make arrangements for
servicing the onlent CCCE funds.
5.04      There is now a situation, where government's obligations to pay OPT
(paragraph 5.02) equal approximately OPT's liabilities to Government
(paragraph 5.03).  The Minister of Finance and Commerce has stated his
agreement (Arrete No. 4440/MFC-CAB of November 5, 1981) to letting these
items cancel each other by book transactions and has invited OPT to establish
the exact amounts involved. During negotiations it was agreed that the net
balance in favor of OPT, approximately MF 1 billion, wouid be included in the
national budget over the years 1983-85.
Present Financial Position
5.05       A summary of OPT's audited balance sheet as of December 31, 1979 is
shown below.
Millions of
MF         US$
Assets
Current assets - Treasury account                   13,047        30
- Accounts receivable              11,366        26
- Inventory                         2,126          5
- Other                             1,017         2
Total Current Assets                           27,556         63
Net fixed assets in use - Telecommunications    5,443             12
- Postal/Financial Services           529         1
Total Net Fixed Assets in Use                   5,972         13
Work in progress                                     2,502         6
Deferred charges                                     1,191         3
Total Assets                                   37,221        8
Liability and Equity
Current liabilities                                 29,154        66
Long-term debt                                       2,502         6
Total Liabilities                     31,656         72
Equity - Capital                                       263         1
Retained earnings and contributions             5,302         12
Total Equity                            5,565        13
Total Liabilities and Equity                   37,221         5



- 30 -
The principal characteristics of the financial situation is that the current
liabilities exceed current assets, both being high, which is the result of
the large accounts receivable as well as of funds deposited with the
Postal/Financial Services being used to finance long-term investment for the
Telecommunications Services.  The situation would be tolerable if funds
deposited by OPT to the Public Treasury accounts were available to meet
demands. As it stands, however, Treasury is unable to transfer the necessary
funds back to OPT and, thus, claims from the postal checking system and from
depositors and for money order transfers cannot be met. This is a problem
that is being addressed by the International Monetary Fund. In the meantime
the problem has been alleviated, as concerns the telecommunications services,
by an order of the Minister of Finance that the telecommunications receipts
can be deposited in designated bank accounts, from which operational and
capital and debt service expenditures can be met.  It will be a credit
condition that any transfer from such account to Public Treasury must have
the prior authorization of the Minister of Information and Telecommunications
after he has assured himself that the amount remaining in the accounts will
be sufficient to cover budgetary expenditures (paragraph 6.02(a). Other
actions to redress the financial situation of OPT are dealt with elsewhere in
this report.
Valuation of Assets
5.06      In 1972 registers of OPT assets were established and the assets
revalued.  At the end of 1979 gross fixed assets had increased by two and
one-half times, with most of the investment taking place during 1977-1979.
The asset registers, including valuation, need to be brought up to date and
is one of the actions recommended by OPT's auditors as essential to receiving
an unqualified audit. The registers have now been updated. No method or
frequency of asset valuation was specified in the first IDA credit agreement,
but assurances have been obtained cluririg negotiations for the proposed second
credit that beginning with 1982, OF'T will review its fixed asset valuations
annually in accordance with a methcid acceptable to IDA for the purpose of
monitoring financial performance through a rate of return (paragraph 6.02(e).
Financing Plan for 1981-85 OPT Procqram
5.07      Although the major concern of this project is the
telecommunications services, since OPT is the beneficiary of the proposed
credit, the financing plan covers the total program of OPT, including a
modest investment program for the Postal/Financial Services.



- 31 -
(MF Million)
MF 
Requirements
Tel-eFcommunications investment program                25,027    74
Postal/financial services investment program              250      1
Increase in working capital                             5,588    16
Debt service                                            3,167      9
Total Requirements                                 34,032   100
Sources
ITA credit                                              6,750    20
CCCE                                                    3,850    il
AfDB and NTF                                            2,435      7
CIDA                                                    6,723    20
ECOWAS loans                                              895      3
OPT                                                    13,379    39
Total Sources                                      34,032   100
5.08      Financing from AfDB and CIDA have been secured.  The AfDB and NTF
loans were signed in 1979, and CIDA is financing PANAFTEL installations which
they will donate to OPT. Financial assistance from CCCE will have to be
firmed up, particularly covering the program linked with the proposed IDA
credit. Financing of that part of the program related to the projects
proposed by ECOWAS is expected to be available shortly.
5.09       OPT contribution to the capital expansion program is estimated to
be about 39 percent over the 1981-85 period. This shoubd not pose cash flow
problems provided action is taken to recover the large amounts in accounts
receivable (paragraphs 5.02 and 5.04), provided future collection of bills is
satisfactory (paragraphs 4.05 and 5.02) and provided stocks are reduced to
reasonable levels (paragraphs 4.06 and 4.10).
Future Financial Performance
5.10       Forecast of financial statements for telecommunications, for postal
and financial services and for OPT consolidated, are given in Annexes 14, 15,
and 16; related notes and assumptions are contained in Annexes 17 and 18. A
summary of expected future financial performance of OPT's telecommunications
branch is given below:



- 32 -
Fiscal years ending December 31:             1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Operating revenues    (MF million)          3,721  4,623  5,293  6,264  7,512
Operating expense       (MF million)        2,175  2,404  2,556  3,148  4,045
Operating income        (MF million)        1,546  2,219  2,737  3,116  3,467
Operating ratio               (%)              58      52      48      50     54
Estimated rate of return on average 1/
revalued net fixed assets                    15      20      20      17     13
1/  Revaluation based upon an initial 1980 revaluation of 50 percent and a
6 percent annual revaluation factor thereafter.
Revenues from government administration subscribers is approximately 39
percent of total revenue in 1981; this ratio has been estimated to decrease
to about 25 percent in 1985. The figures have been based on the assumptions
that the number of DELs used by these subscribers are allowed to increase by
only three percent per annum and the call charges by only three percent,
resulting in a total amount of MF 1,713 million in 1985, as against
MF 1,451 million in 1981. Such small increases must be counted with, even in
a situation with very severe budget restrictions. It is to be realized in
this connection that Government wouid be able to save significant amount of
travel and other expenditures by a more intense use of telecommunications
than at present, both locally and on long distances, not to speak of the
increased efficiency that can be achievea with improved and expanded
telecommunications services.
5.11       Revenues from telecommunications services are forecast to increase
by reflecting the increasing number of subscribers and an augmentation of
traffic. For a system at this stage of development, the increases are
conservative; they follow from the emphasis given in the project to local
networks, to new subscriber connections, and to automatization of long
distance traffic (details at Annex 17). Account is also taken of an increase
in domestic telephone tariffs by about 25 percent, which is expected to be
applied as from January 1, 1982.
5.12       The rate of return on telecommunications average net fixed assets
in operation is forecast to range between 18 and 11 percent during the
project implementation period. It will be lowest at the end of the period
when considerable new fixed assets will be placed in service but is likely to
increase again thereafter, as the benefits of the project are drawn. A
10 percent rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation
is required in the credit agreement for the first project; the figure of this
covenant has been increased to 12 percent (paragraph 6.02(d).
5.13      An analysis of the balance sheets forecast for the
telecommunications services is not very meaningful considering that in



- 33 -
practice the Telecommunications Department has no funds other than those
which can be drawn upon through the budgetary process.  Notionally the "cash"
and other current assets of the Department would be more than adequate to
cover the current liabilities by a ratio of 6 to 1. It does indiedte,
however, that the telecommunications services, taken alone, would be in a
strong financial position providing the collection process is improved
(paragraph 4.05).
5.14       In view of a rate increase on July 1, 1981, OPT's postal/financial
services are expected to breakeven throughout the project period. It is
evident that the cost to OPT of postal services are inevitably high in a
sparsely populated country where distances are great and transportation
difficult. However, Government will be asked to continue to cover possible
deficits as required in the first IDA credit (paragraph 6.02(b).
5.15      Apart from the unsatisfactory situation (paragraph 5.05) with
respect to the financial services system (postal cheeking, money orders and
savings bank), the forecast performance and overall financial position of OPT
is dominated by the Telecommunications Department's size and operations.  In
1980, 93 percent of OPT assets were attributed to telecommunications and this
proportiorn will increase during the project period. Similarly, the expected
cash flow from telecommunications is of singular importance and should assist
in redressing the situation with respect to OPT's financia] services by
adding liquidity to the system.
5.16      The principal of full-cost financing of investments in this sector
is a primary objective.  In this context, the debt equity mix of OPT
Telecommunications Department has been examined in relation to its earnings
before interest. During the period 1981-1985 the debt/debt + equity ratio
increases from about 18 percent to about 33 percent. Using d ratio of 70
percent ehich is more in line with many telecommunications organizations of
developed countries, the income before interest would by 1984 be equivalent
to the charging of a 13 percent interest rate on such debt. During
negotiations, the debt/equity mix of OPT Telecommunications Department was
discussed, together with onlending rates for government funds. The question
of dividend payments or similar will be considered annually by OPT's Board of
Directors.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) that OPT and Government had signed a subsidiary loan agreement
acceptable to the Association, whereby the proceeds of the IDA
credit be onlent to OPT at an interest rate of 10.6 percent
per annum for a period of 20 years including five-year grace
period, the rate of interest to be reviewed in case Mali joins
the Western African Monetary Union (paragraph 2.13); and



- 34 -
(b) that Borrower has fulfilled the conditions for effectiveness
of the CCCE credit.
6.02       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  the Ministry of Finance and Commerce continues to
permit OPT to deposit its telecommunications
receipts in designated bank accounts, from  which OPT
could meet its expenditures under operating and
investment budgets in regaird to the
telecommuniedtions services, as well as other
payment obligations of the telecommunications sector
(debt service); transfers from this account to OPT's
account with the Treasury would be authorized by the
Minister of Information and Telecommunications, only
after he has determinecd that the balance is in
excess of the needs to meet the budgetary and other
obligations (paragraph 5.05);
(b) Government will cover any future deficit of the
Postal/Financiai services (paragraph 5.14);
(c)  OPT will study the structure and levels oi it
telecommunications tariffs, the study to be completed by
December 31, 1982 and the implications of an
implementation of the conclusions of the study be
reviewed with the Association not later than June 30,
1983 (paragraph 3.11);
(d) OPT shall apply such tariffs to its telecommunications
services that, for these services, an annual rate of
return is achieved of not less than 12 percent of average
net value (revalued) of fixed assets in operation
(paragraph 5.12);
(e)  not later than June 30, 1982, OPT would propose and agree
with IDA on a method for revaluation of its fixed assets,
to be applied as from the accounts of 1982, for the
purposes of calculating the rate of return; OPT would
review the value of its fixed assets annually (paragraph
5.06);
(f) OPT will continue to employ independent auditors
acceptable to the Associaition, the appointment of such
auditors to be made prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year to be audited; OF'T will forward preliminary accounts
within four months aft;er the end of the year and the
audited report within  six months except for 1981 for
which year the report will be submitted within nine
months (paragraph 4.10); and



- 35 -
(g)  satisfactory arrangements will be made and applied
by OPT to get its bills for telecommunications
services paid promptly by all its clients
(paragraph 4.05). For this purpose OPT shall send
to IDA on March 31, 1983 for comments a plan for
collection of charges for telecommunications
services. The plan shall provide, among other
things, for suspension of services on lines for
which bills are overdue by more than 30 days.
Taking account of IDA's comments, OPT shall put into
effect and enforce appropriate procedures as from
June 30, 1983.
6.03       Provided the above conditions are met, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit to Government of Mali of
SDR 11.8 million (equal to US$13.5 million using the rate SDR 1.00
US$1.15118) equivalent.



e    C             o                      e                            «-                                             E'
'Ct-'O«-CC Ct--Chu C-t-tOC 'CCCHUC-U 'CoC-reqot-CC-CU'CCCC-OCO CHU eh UC-C- Z PCt-Z>-th
t-ht-h     hhEC'CChhh  CCttth- t't'hht'hhCCt-t-t'tlhhhC-t'  t'hEhhht-h                         t'  h-tOCt'Z
- ««-<tht-t C
h Ct-'Cht'i h
t-pC  'te   hhhht'CCt'OC-tOt-t't-hC<tChtCftht  tt  t't'hOhht' CCt-hh-ht' C-h-C-h                «CC'P>-  t'
«  t'>'  eChh       hCfCh   t'  t''h'hChC       -h  «C    Ct'h-C      t'«-Ptrt-    t-tt,-'r      'h  -.    C
C-t'  t       h        'C  -  h  Ch'htt'h-'    h  ht  hC          Z    t,  «h   «-t-  «h          t'-  «    C
h.-  t'-  «C    -     -    h  h.    h'tt'-t't'  t,  --  CH  --    Ct    h      C  t,'    t'        t'       '1
Ch   t'    '    «       Z   C      ««h        t'   t'    tht'    t-    t-t    O  t'  j
C        C  t'        t'  t'         <h     h          t--     t'  t'
Cc        Z   e         e  t-'         «      r,         C       C
«          e            '   --               t'-         t'      h
t'          W   t'                 t-         h       h
Z  tC'«e  C-  HZ      Z  'h  «h       «          C            h
*  hhh   t'  Ch                       h                       'C
E' Z «ht-Ct'          -  'h  h-t'     t        C              *                       t  t-'C-         C
*  t-ht'  C  t'<'                         t-  CCP       Co   C-Ct-      t-  h-Ct-  Ct-  C h-t-t-t-C'  t-C              t-C              t-Ct-t--
h h C      -                      UtC  «  C    C'C-h'o- tt't-CC   CC-CC C-t-CCC-VtCt-' P h-C   CCtt'tt'CO     CC   C-h-Ch-      C' «-CCC-
tCh'<t H h  t- « «------Ot-'t'Z
<tht'  h  Ht-t-  'h  C  Et'       Ot-Out  t" C-CCCCC-CCÇtt-CCOCCCCC-C'    -"C-Jt  oC-'oC.-'t'C'  C-tt'CCCCC-O't'  C  C-CC'.C    thth
-  'Ce      0.-o..,  OCO't'C-C-C-tCC-e  CCCCUCCC'CCCCC-CC   COCC-Ctt-O   OC-Ct-CC-OC-t-  t-'  Ct-'CC                      Oht''h
t' e    «  t-C                    OCt-C   OCCC-h-0't'OCCC'  CC-C'«CtCCC-0Ct«t'CC   t-COCthC-t   CC-CC-CCNCt-CC t-O    t-Ct t
"hr  'h  hh
C- 'CC
C  t'  h-h   t-       et'               CC       tt-'                                         C-    t-'
h  C  Ct                       t-  C  OCt-h-C- CCC-t-'t'C                   CNt-Ct-C           C-C    C          C                          '-'C t-CH
t'  h  ht-t   t'      ht'                                                                       --                                           OC-ph
t'  hC                       CCOOCCCC  Ct'---tC-O   CC   CCC«-U'C 't'CCh-CO   ONOt-t-CO                  t    t"             t-- t.ttt.t    Oh t--t
t'-'                   CC'Co'  CCCtt'Ct-'C-C-t"CC-  Ct-''-th- Ot-CCC-CN 't'Ctt'tt  CC-tt't' CCC   CC   C-ttth-  CC      CC-CC      OU «h
NCCC-CCC-COt-t--'C Ct-  C-CC-C CCOt-CCC-Ch-C tt' Ct-h-h-OCt--O   C-C-OCCOt"Ch-  «t  C-t-t-a'    h h t -
CCZt'HCHt't-CCt'C'CCZ   Ct'                   t-t-       t-  t-t                                      C-
ph hhh Ch'CC t' t'-h CC-h    t'         t-C-.JC-Ch-C..C'Jt-t                       '-'C-    t-t-t-    t-C     O          t-                        'CH1'-
rtt-ttttt-ttt-t'nC-Eh'h   h                                                         - -    -- -        --     -           -
C<C-C<tC   Ct'  C    <C  t-O                                                                                                                          -t-.. F
t' <t « t' <t t' <t C t' t' h C    'P t' C  O  -  C C 'O Z C C- h- C a OC  Ct-  CCCCCCtt'CCC C- O C  t" C C t' t- Ut C    Ut             Z C- Ut N    C h t.' t'
'Ct' «'h «'C h - t-t- o <t t' C- COCO Ct-C-CC-C- CNt-CC C-C-CC- Ct-CC-t-Ct-CC C-'t' CCC't't-Ct- CC- h-Ct-' CC * t-C Ohtt t' C-
t-h t t'
CC-CZC-ZC-E   ht-Ct't't'  'hh         ""C0h-  C-OC-C-CC-t-Ct-C-C-  COOCCOC OCCCCC-CC   C-CCOCOO                     t't'           h-   t"        Ct-    E
CghCt' t' C't'Ch «h OC-t-t-'  t-
h'hh 'ftIC t-h y Z«h
Z    t-    hUhhh--t'lh          t"
--hEt-'C h'hht',C t- ..
<tht--ho   C t-h   <t' C  C    CC-C-C  CCC-C-CC-CCCCO   CCC-CCC-CCCO-CCCC   CCCOC-C-C-  CC-CCOCC-CC  t-t' >-It'h---i
ht'E   Ch-t'    t--Et'  C-  --
C-ht't-hC   t-t-C  Ct'     t-t
C- Otte  Ch     h-ttiCC  t-  t' n       C  C-    CCCCCCC   Ct-t-    O t-t- t-UtCCCt-  O CUtCCCCCCUtt-Ot-CC-t-'Ot-'O                          Ut    t-t-fl t' 'h  'C -
'-C ht'hhhh rt Oh C- t' C- C-Ct-C- OCCCC-C-COCOC- CC-C-COCO h-CCCt-- C-CC «CC-C-Ch-O CC-t-CC t-CCC t- '«Ct-' Z I'tht-'O "''P
C' t' t'. hC'lhh C 'Ch.Uthh'ht-hh-
«C-h C-h  t-'  t' C  h  C         C-CCC-  C-CCOCC-OCt--h-C-  C-OO OCCC'«C C-Ct-C-CC-  COO't't-Ct'   t-t-C-C-t-COCO   C  C-C-C>'                   C t I  E
h  t-o'ht''te  h  CC    t'  C-t-                                                                                                                            Oh
t-'    h t'   'CC  h-h  C  C  t-C-                                                                                                                    'h t-j H  t-t-'
h  t'Zhhe   C-hhhC-          t-C      Z-CC-  CCC-CC CC"CCCUt   CC-C-O Ot-CC-CCCCC CC-  Ct-CC-C-C-C  C-C-'-tOt-OC-h-Ut                    CC-OC-    t-C-ht'  'C
'h    «Ch j'  Ct-   t'  t'  C <      CCC-C   C-t- C-CCt-Ct-OCC   Ch-h-t-C COCCOCOCO O  CC-Oh-CC O  CCC-CCCCOC-   Z  Ot-'UtUt    p-t-t' t-t'Zh
C- -t-tt-C--t hhoh «h........."-Chhht-'
t'  <tht'  h  «Z t-C-      -t        CCOC   h-t-'COt-Ct-CC OC   C-CCO0CC-C-OCCCC CC   COOCC C-C-  C-'CC'-JOh-Ct-'C-  E'  C-CON                       P lt-r'
t' t-CC- hhhC-«-hCh-t'-t'.
h  CC   «C      h.'<C-  t-  Ch                                                                                                                              «t"
'Ch -th    t' C    h  t'  CC-     C-Ch-C-    CC-Ch-h-CC-Ch-C  C-  CCOC-CC-C-  CC-COC-  C-Ch-C-C-OC               C-OC-CC-C-h-Ut  C-      Z        'C H C- p n
t'  C-  «C-C   C h C 'P   C- - o      h-CCC   OCOCCOCOCC C-  CC-C-CCC- C t- C-C- Ch-t-CC-  CC C C-C-Ct-  Z h-C O Z h-t- C C  t-  Z Z O Z    t-C- h h h C'
t'  ht--t-hC   t't'C-hC   t-  t'                                                                                                             o      Ot--'h't-h                   't-
E  Ch h h    a-' h'C t'<  h           h-t-Ch-  >-CCONC-CCCOO   C>'COCt-CCC >'h-OC-Ct-  OC h-OC-CC-  >' C-CCOCUtNC   Ut  rrr                           h t                         C-t  C
he'CCCt-t  t--   hE'     Ht-
<t   t-C-hC-  t'<t'Ch-   O  C-tt
t'- h 'Ct'' <h C-Ch t' h h h OCOC OC-CC-C-CC-COC-C- C-OO C-C-C-h-Ch-CC- 0CC-CCC-C h-C- C-C-C-C-C-CC-C-C- C- '«'«C-
-C                      ' 
h-t--t'  -'h r-hC h               t-C-Ct- CC-CCCCNCC- C-C CCC CCOUtCCC-OC O OCt-OC-C C h-CC-OCCCO«- o Ch-C-Z  CCnt' 'h Eeh h h' CCC- t' C-C-..'t -.t--Cht-h"'-h
t-h    E    - OCh   t'  Ch   I N-CC-C   NCC-t-CCNCO C-C  Ct-t-  C-OC-t-C-h-CON   C  COot-OCO   OOCh-OCCC-t-  «-CCC>-    -  Ct«tCW
C-t-t'  O  CC'hC'h      t-h   I                                                                                                           -      Ct    n                      '-C
t--  ht-O  Pt  C Ct'C'tj  C  th      OCCC   tCCCCCCC C-C C-  t-CC            CCCCCCNCCCNCCt-t-C   t-CC   CCC  C-                       N    t-   I 'hHHIt-h              t-'     E
Q  CCC-  C  Ctt-C  h--t   -           Ch-CC   COoh-C-CCC-C C- t- t-t C C  C-Ot--tC-CCOC   C  h-CC-Ch-h-C   OCCOCOZOC   Z  OC-CC-   It"C-hhI  Pt'                           Ch
C tt h CC C- C «t'.. t. .'..lt-tht-no t--' 2 M
t' CC h h hO t-h C t' CJt-C C- OCCOCOCC E' CCCC- t-'t' h ht-t'
O  C-tZ   t    'lt-ht-  t'  H                                 t- C-             h-Ct-CC-C- C                  C  h-CC-Ct-C-CON                       h  t-.-t«                      t-I
t'  t'-  h    CChC"'C   C  ht-                                                                                                                       -t'  t--t'
t' t'C <tht--C-t' t-- t-h t-Ct-CC C-CCCCCCC-CC-t-CCCt-NCUtCCCNCt-OCUtOCOUtCC-t- t- CC
'h  t' h C  e  Ct' <t<h t-  E  h t-t-    tto-Jo   C-CC-C-CCCCCC   OC-C   Ot-C C-t-Z'JCC-t-CC-NCt- OC-  C-CC-Ct-CC-CC-  C-  C-C-t-O                  'ht-t-Oh t'           g h    N  ph  -
t' h h h «C h 'Ch..-C-ht-t-'t
C  t' CQOCCOCC-'l                     C-OCC-  >-C-C-OC-CCUtCOt-  C>'C   COCC-C-1t'C-O«-  '«t-OC-t-CC C  «-NUtCOZC C-C-  -C  >'>-C>'    Mht-t'-t-''<                       'Pt"      9
C'ltlht-htChh h C>
Ch   C  t- 'P  -t       Ct-                                                                                                          .  .    't-ChU-'
hi
Ct-O   e    <tht' t--  h  hC                                                                                                                      t-                   
C'hh   h  'Ch   hh   h  Ch-         C  C    C  CCCUtCCCt-              C       t-  CC     Ct-      C       C-         t-
«t  «CC   h  CCC<th            C      t-C-CC   C-h-CC-h-C-OC-CCO   CCCCt-CCt-C-C'OCOC   C-OC-CC- h-Ct-Ct- COOCCC   O  t-Ct-t-                        t-t
t- 'h h C-C-C-C 'P tE.....ht--Z H  C-n Pt -
C  t'h't-  C  t-  C  h  <P            CCt-C      C-Ct-CCCCCCC-  0CCCCCCCCCh-CCCC   t- C-OOCC-C   OC-C-CC Ct-OC   t-CC-CC-    t-ht-   C                                                '-t
C  CCC-  h  t--C «'Ch  'C  C-t-       Ch-C-C   Ct-t-CC-C C-CCCC   t-CCOC COCCOOC-C-C-t-  t-CC-C- CCC   CC C-h-OthCh- C-C-C   CtOC                     C j  n
I    t-
'C'lh  t-  OChhh   C    h
t'  «'C  - 'h    C C h 't  C  <"'C    t-C-t-C   CC   C-OCCCCC-C            C    t-t-tCC       CC   t-t-0t-t-  'C    t-  C    C                      CC0 'h                       2  
h      'P  h  .  C  h     ti  C'C
h  C-ht'  C'   Ct--t--C-  h  t't-     Utt-OO   t-t-OOOO CCCCC   CCCCC-CC-COt-C-OC O C  t-Ct-CC-CC-  CZCCCt-CC C-  C-  C-Ch-Z    t--t--'l  H                                  t--     z
e CC h t-CCh e Ch. . . . . n'Ch- h  h '
Ch   C  «CC-ht'        t-h      C CCC   CC OC-OC-UtOC-C-C   CCCOOC-Oh- C-Ct-COCO   C-Ct-OCC-C-  C>.CC-CC-CC   E'  h-C-C>'    h-t-C   -                                 w    H
-C  Cot-'   C  CC-t-h-t'  <t  CC-
C- t et-t'  t-C'CC      C  C                                                                                                                       t- ht-C   h  h    Ct'  C- ct e  ONt-t-  CCt-CCCN C-OC- o  -,Ct-Ct- C-CC-C-OCCh-C- O  CCCC-CCC   C. C-OC-t-COC  C-CC  ht-I   h Z
h  ht--t--    CCC   e        t--C-      h-C      CCC-CCt-CCt-                         Ct-
tt    Ct'  o  eC-'h   h  C  CC        CC-Ct-  OC-OC-C-CCCCCC   CCC   CCOCCOCCC   Ct  CCCt-COC   CoCCh-CCCC   Z  Ct-CC-                                CC  Oh                          p-I
t-t-C-h C tnht'hC C- t'. . . . . . Ct'hhCt-'
t'  C  «'lt-Ct--  h  t-h       CC-CC-  C- OCC-t-t-Ct-CC-C  t-C-C   Ct-CC-t-t-O COCh-CCCt-CC   CZCCt-t- CC-C-  E'  NOCE'   'P ht-t-hO
CC  t-CC   o      «'le          h     t-CC-t-  CCCCt-CC-CCCt  C-Ct-  C-CCCCCCO C-CCCC-t-Ct-C   t-.t-h-C h-C-Ch-                          CCC-         C       O
t-- t-C-    h  'CCCt-C    1  CC
<t  <tht'  h  <Ch Ch  'h  'Ch         Ch-CC  C- ONCt-CCt-C-C C  CZOC-CCCOCC'«CCCC-   CCCCCC O  t-t-COCCCCC   C  C-C-OC-    t-t--Z thht--t'CCC   E  CCCCCt-CNCCt-  t-  Ct-    C  C  Ut  C  t'
t'«-t e t' <te h t-h.t-ht- t-t'
e 'Ct-t- C t-rIt--CC'--' t' C-CCC- C.CCCC '«t-C-CCC C- «-UtoCUt C OCCt-t-COt- CCCt-C t- C CCC-NCC COt- C «-«-'«E' CI h't-
t'  t-Ch      «C-Ch C-  C  ho         C-CCt-  t C CCCCCOC C- O  C. C-C-CCCOUtC '«'«C-Ct-  OCC-C-COh-  C'«Ch-t-t'C-CO   C-                            I    Ch
C  hhh   h    <th'-C  t'-  CC                                                                                                                       CC0'h  Ht'
h CC t-hC C t--'l C
h C C hZCChh  t ot.<                CCCCC-CCC h-CC                     t-t-t-C   Ct-t-Ct-  C                          t-  t-                    ht-'P «h
't  e<'t  C-  t-'lCt'       h -      C-CC-o  C-CCCCOOC '«Ch-  CCCC-Ct-t-CC C- ZOCCC   OCOCOCO   C-CCCN Ct-Ch-  C  UtCCC-    t'Ct't- h
Pi
t'  CCC       'hChCC-  h  t'          h-C-C-C  C' CCCC-CC-t-Ct- C  h-Ct-t-CCt-CO>'Ct-t-OC-  C-OCCC-t-C-  «-CCCCC-CCC   C  h-CC-Z    t't-I
<'-C-h   h  C-OC-t   t-  h-t     OCt-C    '«h-C-t-C OCCCC-  t-. -'CC-Ct-C C-O. CCCCt-  CCCC-C Ct-  . CCCCCC-t-C  C-  CCC-                      t-      C-
C-t-t-h  C  C'ChC-h  'h  Ct-  C  CCCCt-t-t-Ct-                                               C      C                                       t'<  OU
t'   C'h  C-  h h tht' t'  C-  t-Oh   Ch-CC   CC-t-CCt-h-CC-CC   CZC   t-Ct-CCC-oCt-  C  t-Utt-'Ot- CC-  C-OCCt-OCt-t-  C  OC-CC-    Ch h h h
'CCC- h t't- Ch h 'C. ....«ht-t-h
t-  Ceh   C       Ct--C   h  CC-      t-O-O   «-'«t-C-COCt-CC-C-  0>-t-  Ct-CCC«-CCt-  C  t-t-CC-CC-C  «-C-C OCOOCC   C  «-t'tt-E'
h  h  C  C-  COCC         h  hh       t-C-C-t-  t OC-Ct-CCCCOC   C-' C  C-CCCh-' C C-Ct-CCC-C-C h-C   . Ch-CCOh-t-h-  t-  . . C.
Ct'h   h  Ct-'CCC         Ch                                                                                                                        r H -t--r, CC-
t--  .-t'.    -tht-   -  h  «h
E  eC      E    t-OCt'   h  t'          CC       CC   CCCC        CCCCC    C  h-C             C h-Ct-CCCC             CC-C     CC          Ch-          r-ht-t-ht'
'C  t--    t'  C «Ch      E  Ct-      C-CC-O  ZCCC-CO''t-C- C-C  CC-t-C C-OC-C-CCC-OC-CC   CCJCCC   C-C-C-Ct-C-C-C-O  C-   C-CC-    C-t  h-t  Et-h
a Ch C t- Ce......hhChhh
t'  C-    C  h    <t   h    E       >'C->''«  «-CC«-CCCCC>-C   h-«-C-CC>-C>'OCCt-«->-CC   «-t-t-Ct-h-C   E'«-CCO<hE'CC   E'    OC>-                   ht-tht-   t
«t-  t--  t-t--   t  t     t    .         t  t     t                           t              't       t.        t        .         t-
C-  t'      'Ph   t'                                                                                                                          Z             E'
t-  t'h    t-  h
r-    «'P  t-    C  C'C   Il    Ct--                                                                                                                C- C Z  t- 'C  h  C- t' h
C-  e     t-  C    t--C-  't  Oh      C-CC-C   CCCCCCCCC C-C  C- C-Ch-CtCCC-CCCCt-C-h-C   C-C-CC-Ch-C   C-CCCC-C-C C-CC   CCC Z    Chhhht-hthh
t- h h hh h t C.......ot-C'l '«'P
<t  t-h    C  e    t-t'  C   C'P    Ct-C'-'  «-C- C-CC'JC h-CC'O  t-«-CCOC«-CCCO«-«-h-C   «->0>-C-C-C   «-CC-C>' «-CCC   t-CCO>                    eh   t-I        t
C«     tt         h   C-    t'              t               t       t      '          t         t'   '        t       '   '                '       I
h  'Ch        C    C    C    C                                                                                                                      t" Z'C C- «ho t' <
O 'CC h h 'Ph h t-
t' CC h t" C Ct-t-t- C-t-t-'Ct- CCt-C-C CC-CCOC-C-CCCCC-C-t-C C-C-CC-CCC C-CCCC-C-COO C CCCC- Ch h t' t-t-hO «
t-' th- <'t 'C C-t' C h.t-hCh «'P
C   Ch     h  h    t--t--  't         OC-CC   «-Ct-t-OCOOO>-C   C«-COC«-ECCCC«-«-CC-   «-«-C«-h-Ct-  «-ot-t-t'«-CUtC  C  Ct-O>-    h-h  t' t                       t
t'  r-t-    E  C-   t-C        h      OCC-C-  t C-CCCCC CC'          C' CCC'.  C-CCC, 'C-t-  ''0'  C-CC  'Ct-C' 't-CC  t-  C-t-C-.                    h  t-
«h     t'    t-  Ct'-  C   'l                                                                                                                      i      t-CC
C  t--   CC   h                                                                                                                             't-H  t-CC-h
t-O t'- O 'PC E C C'C C- «'C-t CC «
'Ch    C        h--t  'C    C     C-C-C-C  C-CCCC-COCCC-C   CCC-C-ZC-OC-CCOC-C-C-C   Ch-CC-h-OC   C-C-C-C-CCCZ   C-  C-C-Ct    h t' ht-ht--C' 'P
C-h t' C 0t' « E.'lCh'lht' h
C-    t-  h    C'-t  C    'C      h«->-C   «-t-'CC-C«-CC-O>-t-  CChh-«-«-«-«-OCt-«-t-C't-  «-C-Oh-t-CC-  «-t-«-«-C-t-CCC   Z  COC-C-                hi   h-tht-C
t-t-t-t-t-t-   t-   t-              t       t                                         t                       .  t .          t  t                        t-i Oh
C-C    C   h      h        C
CC        'C      C  t"  'C                                                                                                                       Ht-   ph
C-         h
C-   C-C-      C-  C-    t-   t-           C-t-                                                      C-h. 'Ct'ECC-                             e.
C-    t-   C-   t-            C-    Ct-Chh'Ct-hh
CC       C       tI       h      C-t-t-t-  '  C''    t-   '  Ch-t-t-t-t-t-C         t Ot-'C          t-t-   'CCC' CC.UtCCC  O.    ChCht-
C                      Ch-OC   «-OC«-«-CCt-C'C-«-  Ct-C- C-CCOCC «-0>-t-C-O   «-Ch-C-CCC-  «-CCC«-CC«-C-  C  OCC«-    h 'C                     h
t      '   '                       '        '              t       t    t              t     t-       C



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECO_MUNJICATIONS PROJECT
Telephone Subscriber Distribution
Distribution of Subscribed DELs by User Categories (as of Dec. 31, 1978)
Automatized Cities       Cities to be Automatized  Sikasso Region, except Sikasso
(Segou, Sikasso, Kati,   (Kayes, Kita, Bougouni,         and Bougouni Cities (Taken as
Bamako                   Koulikoro)            San, Mopti, Sevare)             Sample of Rural Areas)
Localities                Number of                  Number of                  Number of                       Number of
User Categories                 DELs      Percent         DELs    Percent             DELs       Percent              DELs       Percent
Government administration and
military authorities                      130         5.1            26        5.0              50          12.0                 38         27.0
Education and training                       57         2.2            17         3.3             10            2.4                 4          2.8
Health services                              77         3.0            28        5.4              26            6.3                13          9.2
Justice, security and gendarmerie            78         3.1             22       4.2              28            6.7                14          9.9
Posts and telecommunications                 82         3.2            40         7.7             34            8.2                 9          6.4
Religious organizations, missions            16         0.6            il         2.1              1            0.2                -           -
Total public services                 440        17.3            144       27.5             149          35.8                 78         55.3
Commercial banks                             44         1. 7            8        1.5               3            0.7                 1          0.7
Shops, hotels, garages, gas
stations                                 430        16.9             74       14.3              86          20.7                 18         12.8
Other: factories, collection of
agricultural products                      46         1.8            12        2.3               4           1.0                 16         11.3
Road, river, railway, air trans-
port--terminals and agencies               44         1.7            14        2.7              12            2.9                 5          3.5
Total economic activities             564        22.2            108       20.7             105          25.2                40          28.4
Residences                               1,531         60.1           266       51.0             155          37.3                 15         10.6
Public telephones                            10         0.4             4        0.8               7            1.7                 8          5.7
Total                               2,545       100.0            522      100.0             416         100.0               141        100.0



-38-                                ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOIM[UNICATIONS PROJECT
Existing Facilitïes as of December 31, 1980
A. BASIC DATA
1. Local Telephone
Capacity of telephone exchanges (lines)                             8,299
of which automati: (Lines)                                5,900
and manual (lines)                                        2,399
Number of automatic telephone exchanges                                 4
Number of manual telephone exchanges                                   45
Number of telephones installed                                      8,930
Number of subscriber connections (DELs)                             4,700
Annual growth in DELs (last four years), weLcent                      5.7
Average exchange fill, percent                                         57
Unsatisfied demand, number on waiting list                          1,4481/
Number of public telephones                                            81
2. Long Distance Telephone
Total number of long distance circuits (microwave, VHF,
UHF, HF, line, line-carrier)                                        129
3. Telegraph and Telex
Number of telegraph offices                                            52
Number of telex offices                                                 1
Number of telex subscribers                                           168
Exchange fill, percent                                                100
4. International Facilities
Number of telephone circuits (satellite or HF)                         22
Number of telex circuits                                               28
Number of telegraph circuits                                            9
1/  It is estimated that in addition there is a latent demand of
approximately the same size.



39 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
B. DESCRIPTION OF INSTALLATIONS
1. Automatic Telephone Exchanges
The equipment in Bamako for local switching is SPC crossbar of type
Janus Delta equipped for 4,800 lines, filled to about 60%. It is estimated
that the capacity will be exhausted after about three years. Two thousand
lines Pentaconta equipment is also available but taken out of service due to
incompatibility with Janus. The OPT 1981-85 investment program contains the
necessary interworking equipment for the Pentaconta switches to be put back
into service. This arrangement will provide the capacity needed until after
1985.
Bamako has a national center for the switching of interurban
traffic, of type Janus.
Switching equipment of type Janus Epsilon is installed in Ségou
(400 lines), Kati (100 lines), and Koulikoro (100 lines). These centers are
working with direct distance dialing with each other and with Bamako.
Sikasso has a local exchange (500 lines) of Pentaconta type. Equipment
needed for it to work with the other exchanges will be provided within the
program.
2. Manual Telephone Exchanges
Installed at 45 towns with a total capacity of 2,399 lines the
manual exchanges are in general worn and frequently malfunctioning.
In Bamako a manual international exchange has recently been put in
service, as an interim until the CT3 is ready.
3. Local Cable Network
A thorough rehabilitation and expansion of the Bamako local cable
network, undertaken within the framework of the first telecommunications
project and with some later additions of funds from OPT resources, is
nearing completion. Unfortunately, the resources set aside for the total
work were more or less exhausted by the needs of the primary cable network,
as these were more important than had been estimated by the consultants.
Therefore, much of secondary network improvement and expansion would have
to await the second telecommunications project. This will also delay the
connection of waiting subscribers.
The local networks at other places are old, in a very poor state
of repair and of insufficient capacity. In general, a complete replacement
is necessary.
4. Microwave Links
A radio relay link in the six GHz band is working on the route
Bamako-Ségou, wîth three relay stations.  Links in the 400 MHz band are
connecting Bamako with Kati and Koulikoro. They were constructed within
the first project and work satisfactorily.



-40 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
5. HF Circuits
About 30 HF circuits are used for domestic telephone and telegraph
service. The working hours are lirnited by shortage of frequencies and of
equipment. Moreover, most of the radio and power equipment available is
old and almost obsolete and breaks down often. Finally, the radiated power
is low due to weak transmitters and inefficient antennas, and consequently
the circuit quality is often degraded by atmospheric disturbances and by
interference from foreign operations.
6. Openwire Lines
A number of openwire pole lines, some with one or three channel
carrier systems, are available, mainly in the southern and western parts of
the country. They are maintained too infrequently to give proper service.
Moreover, they were designed and constructed for short haul purposes but
are in general used for long distances (at least as a back-up to HF circuits)
and often with up to three or four stations en route connected in parallel.
In the study of the network to be conducted (para. 4.07 c) the future use of
these lines will be looked at.
7. Telex
A telex exchange type TW39 of 200 lines (subscribers plus circuits)
is installed in Bamako. Its capacity is exhausted by 168 subscribers and 32
lines connected.
8. International Service Facilit_es
A standard-B earth station for satellite communication has been
installed for working with Algiers; it belongs to, and is operated by, OPT
(it was not in use at the visit of the mission). Another standard-B earth
station is operated by TIM, within the INTELSAT system, for traffic to Europe
and beyond. TIM has also facilities to operate HF circuits to other African
countries, to USSR, etc. No international exchange is available as yet and
thus, in general, the international traffic is handled manually. However,
with a special technical arrangement, a few circuits have been made available
provisionally for subscriber-dialed traffic with France, in both directions.



- 41 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUINICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Description of Works in OPT Investment Program (1981-85)
1.         OPT's investment program fôr 1981-85 has the following components:
(a)  completion of outstanding works;
(b) the second telecommunications project; and
(c) other program works.
2.         The following is a summary description of the works in each of the
groups.
Works in Group (a):
About 5% of the ducting work and about 20% of the installation and
jointing of cables in Bamako remained as of January 1981. All material has
been delivered and the works involve local costs only; they will be completed
before end 1981.
Works in Group (b):
Local Network
(1)  to construct a new 200-line exchange in San and to
expand the interurban switching capacity of the Segou
exchange;
(il) to expand the local cable network in the Bamako area up
to a capacity of 13,000 MDF lines and the network in
about eight provincial cities and towns up to a total
capacity of about 5,000 MDF lines. In view of the
difficulty to make frequent changes in a city cable
network, the consultants have, after a thorough study,
proposed that on the routes of the now planned cables
no new work be undertaken until after 1989. This is
reasonable, in view of the fact that cable delivery and
installation work will be continuous throughout the
project period;
(iii) to install and connect about 4,000 subscribers'
equipment of which about 500 is replacement of obsolete
installations at the cities and towns covered by (ii);



- 42 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
Interurban Network
(iv)  to construct a microwave rddio relay lirik of 960/300
channel type and configuration 1+1 on the route
Segou-Bla-San-Sevare, to construct UHF or SHF branches
Bandiagara-Sangha (6-12 channels, 1+1), Segou-Markala
(120 channel type, 1+1), and Markala-Dioro (6-12
channels, 1+1), to instalL multiplex equipment as
needed for circuits Mopti-Sevare, Mopti-Bandiagara-
Sangha, Segou-Markala-ODioro, etc.;
(v)  to construct secondary and rural links, principally in
the area of the Niger/Bani delta and the Sikasso
region, on VHF, UHF, and SHF, and to install multiplex
equipment as needed;
Telex
(vi) to install a new digital telex exchange in Bamako, with
an initial capacity of 400 lines extensible in stages
to at least 2,000 lines to replace the present
exchange, which cannot be extended and which is
obsolete; to provide 150 teleprinters of electronic
type; and to install equipment as needed for connection
to the Bamako exchange of teleprinters installed at
about ten places in various parts of the country, both
for remote telex subscribers and for gentex service;
Support for Installation and Operation
(vii) to provide tools and instrum&nts for the installation,
operation and maintenance of local cable networks, and
for the operation and maintenance of telephone and
telex exchanges and radio links; to provide about 40
specialized or four-wheel-drive vehicles, for
installation, operation, maintenance, and training;
(viii) to provide expertise to engineer telephone and telex
switching installations aind radio links and to assist
in training and in operation and maintenance, to advise
on financial managemerit and on other managerial and
administrative matters;
(ix)  to provide fellowships for staff of the
telecommunications department to obtain training
abroad; to provide the funds needed for senior staff of
this department to participate in seminars and study
tours, with the aim of improving the Malian
telecommunications services.



- 43 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
Works in Group (c):
PANAFIEL
(i) to construct a wide-band microwave link on the route
(Senegal border,)-Kayes-Bafoulabe-Kita-Bamako-Bougouni-
Kolondieba-Sikasso-(Upper Volta border), with the
configuration 1+1 and the capacity catering both for
international and for national circuits and with the
necessary multiplex equipment; the work is ongoing and
is expected to be concluded by April 1982;
(il) to install an international switching center CT3, of
electronic digital type, in Bamako; the installation is
expected to be completed in 1984;
(iii)   to install automatic switching equipment at Kayes, Kita
and Bougouni and to construct Local networks at these
towns and at Sikasso; this work will go on intil end
1985;
LIPTAKO-COURMA
(iv) to construct wide-band microwave links on the routes
Gao-Ansongo-(Niger border) and Mopti-Bandiagara-Kora-
(Upper Volta border), with the configuration 1+1 and
with multiplexing facilities for the international
circuits and for national circuits following those
routes; the original design was made for a capacity of
960 telephone channels or television plus a
correspondingly reduced number of channels. This would
probably have lead to a significant cost overrun, due
to project slippage, and a reduction to a much cheaper
initial capacity of 60 channels, possibly on UHF, is
being considered by OPTM in keeping with the cost
figures originally estimated and used in the loan
agreement and in the investment program.
(v) to install automatic switching equipment at Mopti,
includinq Sevare, Bandiagara, Cao, Ansongo, and to
construct local cable networks at those places,
including also the installation arid connection of a
total of abut 1,000 subscribers;
ECOWAS
(vi) to construct microwave links on the routes Sikasso-
Kadiolo-(Ivory Coast border), Bamako-Kangaba-(Guinea
border), and Kayes-Nioro, with configuration 1+1 and
the necessary multiplex equipment; installation
schedule and precise arrangements are supposed to be
determined before end 1981;



- 44 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 4of 4
Other Projects
(vii)  to overhaul and reinstall HF equipmerit, available in
the country, for improvement of the transmission
quality and reliability, on the routes Bamako-Gao,
Bamako-Sikasso, and Bamako-Tombouctou, as an
intermediate measure until microwave links can be
established; the work, which requires local funds onLy,
is expected to be ready by October 1981; and
(viii)  to expand the capacity of the national interurban
telephone switching center at Bamako and to install
equipment enabling interworking of the pentaconta type
exchanges at Bamako (2,000 lines) and Sikasso (500
lines) with the rest of thie network; the work is
financed by OPT's own resources.



45                                            ANNEX 5
MALLI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICAT IONS PRO JECT
- Program artd Project Costs
(MF Million)
1981       1982            1983          1984           1985    Total 1981-85
r-r  r-rL   F               - L-r F LF L  F  L   F
Second Telecommunica-
tions Pro ect
Cmponent "A" financed
by CCCE
Swltchifng                    -   -   50       64      17    170       1      30    -        -    68    264
Segou-Sevare, etc.            -   -    -    272       40  1,491       30    347  125         -    70  2,234
Tools, etc.                   -   -    -        2       -    122       -       -    -        -     -    124
Technical assistance,
training                    -  10    1      37      _        3       4      57    6    110    11    217
Subtotal, basic
cost                     -   -    -    375        57  1,786       35    434    6    110   149  2,839
Physical contingency          -   -    3       20       3     84       2      28    1       il     9    143
Price contingency             -   1    8       53     16    402       15    159    4       51    43    666
Total Component "A"        -  11   62    448        76  2,272       52    621   11    297   201  3,648
Component "B" financed
by IDA, OPT
Cables, etc.                  -   -  515    453    700    676    500    533  500    195 2,215  1,758
Secondary, rural links        -   -   10    170       40    290       30    300   20    152   100    912
Telex                         -   -    -    155        10    195       6    242    6       65    22    657
Tools, etc.                   -   -    -    128         -    210       -       -    -        -     -    338
Technical assistance,
training                    -  12    7    163        6      84       5      90    4    148    22    497
Subtotal, basic cost       -  12  53   1,069    756  1,355   T54   1,165  33            560 2,359  4,162
Physical contingency          -   -   26       34     38      42      28      37   26      23   118    136
Price contingency             -   -   86    127    214    306    226    365  298    249   824  1,047
PPFs                          - 105    -       50       -      -       -       _    _       -      -    155
Total Component "B"         - 117  644  1,280  1,008  1,703    795  1,567  854    832 3,301  5,500
Total Project               - 128  706  1,728  1,084  23975    847  2,188  865  1,129 3,502  9,148
Other Program Costs
PANAFTEL, etc.,  ÎCIDA)       -   -    -  5,270         -    580       -    873    -         -     -  6,723
Rehabilitation (OPT)        200   -    -        -       -      -       -       -    -        -   200       -
Liptako-Gourma (AfDB/
NTF, OPT)                   -   -  217    487    296    609    210    852   89    487   812  2,435
ECOWAS (loan)                 -   -    -        -       -      -       -       -    -    895       -    895
Switching (OPT)               -  _    30    273        30    394      30    525   30         -   120  1,1_92
Total Other Project
Co5ts                  200   -  247  6,030    326  1,583    240  2,250  119  1,382 1,132 11,245
Total Program            200 128  953  7,758  1,410  5,558  1,087  4,438  984  2,511 4,634 20,393
328       8,711          6,968           5,525          3,495       25,027
L: Local currency.
F: Foreign exchange.



46 -                 ANNEX 6
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
Disbursement             disbursement at
IDA fiscal year       during 6-month period    end of 6-month period
and 6-month period         (in US$ Thousands)         (in US$ Thousands)         (%)
1982
Jan. - June 1982                    350                        350               2.6
1983
July - Dec. 1982                     580                       930               6.9
Jan. - June 1983                  1,070                      2,000              14.8
1984
July - Dec. 1983                  1,400                      3,400              25.2
Jan. - June 1984                  1,500                      4,900              36.3
1985
July - Dec. 1984                   1,600                     6,500              48.1
Jan. - June 1985                  1,500                      8,000              59.3
1986
July - Dec. 1985                  1,400                      9,400              69.6
Jan. - June 1986                  1,200                    10,600               78.5
1987
July - Dec. 1986                  1,000                    11,600               85.9
Jan. - June 1987                     800                   12,400               91.9
1988
July - Dec. 1987                     600                   13,000               96.3
Jan. - June 1988                     500                   13,500              100.0



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTt
SECOND TELECOMMUNCIATIONS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1981                      1982                    1983                     1984                    1985                     1986
Telephone Exchanges                                                                                                                         é
Local Cable Networks                                                                                                                     I
Microwave Link SêgouSdvarI and Branches
Secondary and Rural Links                                                                                            -                           -
Talsx Exchange-
Tat'printerss                                                                                                   I                                                              , 
Instruments, Tools, Vahictas                                                                     -   -          |  0'
Technical Assistance. Training                           |                                                            t
O  Call for bids or raquast for quotaîtIon.
O   Otifeial data of contrect.
9 Complation of Installation, prelimninary acceptane,
taking into service of test portion.



- 48 -                           ANNEX 8
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONSI (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRODECT
Performance Indicators
Below is a set of indicators which would assist OPT management and
the Association in monitoring OPT performance during the project period.
OPT is expected to indicate in its periodic progress reports to the
Association the actual performance in relation to the projected figures.
For Fiscal Year Ending DecemEr 31    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
1.  Number of main telephone lines (DELs) 5,030  5,480  6,140  7,060  8,120
2. Additional DELs connected, within
the project, during year:
(a) in Bamako                            200    350    450    550    630
(b) in capitals of region                 60      80    170    300    350
(c) in rest of country                     10     20      40      70      80
3.  Additional telex lines connected              -       -      30      50     70
4. Number of OPTM staff for telecom-
munications (Telecommunications
Department plus 50% of common
services) per 1,000 DELs                  210    185    165    150    135
5. Faults per DEL per year (average
for all regions) in automatic
exchange areas                              2.5    2.0    1.7    1.5    1.3
6. Duration of faults announced by
subscribers in automatic exchange
areas:
- less than 48 hours (%)                   50     55      60      65      70
- 48 hours or more (%)                     50     45      40      35      30
7. Vehicles in garage for service or
repair (average vehicle-calendar days
per year for total vehicle fleet)          60     45      30      30      30
8. Delay in the preparation and
distribution of telephone and
telex bills (weeks from last day of
billing period)                             8       6      4       4       4
9. Amount of collections during year as a
percentage of amount of telecommuni-
cations billings during year               60     65      70      75      75
10. Operating ratio - Telecommunications
Department                                 65     64      63      60      60
11. Rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets in use by telecommunications    15          15     15      15      15



- 49 -                                   ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECCEfUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecommunications Tarif fs and Charges
(in effect since July 1979)
A.  Telephone                                                 MF
1.  Annual rent per telephone instrument
(first or additional)                               2,700
2.  Annual rent per lîne
(a)(i) In a network with 1-50 lines
Per main line                              27,000
Per additional line                        13,500
(ii) In a network with 51-100 lines
Per main line                              33,750
Fer additional line                        13,500
(b) In a network with more than 100 lines
Fixed charge per main line                 20,250
Fixed charge per additional line            1,350
Plus monthly charges: for less than
50 calls per month                          2,700
for 50-100 calls per month                  5,400
for 101-200 calls per month                10,800
for 201-400 calls per month                21,600
for 401-600 calls per month                40,500
for 601-800 calls per month                58,500
for 801-1000 calls per month               76,500
for over 1000 calls per month              99,000
(c) In a retwork with call counters
(i) Fixed charges in a network with less than
2,000 main lines
Annual rent per main line                   20,250
Annual rent per additional line              1,350
(ii) FLced charges in a network with 2000
main lines



_50                                 A -ANEX 9
Page 2 of 6
Annual rent per main line                    27,000
Annual rent per additional line               2,250
(iii) Call charge per count (basic call unit
charge)                                         90
3. Guaranty deposit (reimbursable at the
termination of subscription when
outgtanding charges paid)                         30,000
4. Installation cost
(a) For one main line in a network with less
than 500 DEL:s                                54,000
For one main line in a network with
501-5,000 DEL:s                               72,000
For one main line in aL network with
5,001 or more DEL:s                           90,000
(b) For additional lines (in the general
case :) OPT cost plus 25%,
5.  Investment contribution
(a) Within a built-up area                         13,500
(b) Outside a built up area, per 100 meters
line distance, up to 4,000 meters             27,000
(c) When a subscriber is located outside a
build up area, the contribution, for
the distance exceeding 4,000 meters
line distance, is computed as 1.25 times
OPT costs, minimum                            27,000
6.  Re-establishment of a subscription which was
suspended due to non-payment in time of
charges billed                                     5,400
7. Transfer to another locality within the
same network, 50% of the charges as per
items 4(a) above.
8. Call charges
(a) For an untimed local call (in a network with
counters)                                        90



- 51 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 6
(b) For a operator timed interurban (long
distance) call, the charge is per
unit of 3 minutes, varying with the
radial distance between the calling
and the called station:
up to 50 km                                  180
51-75 km                                     270
76-100 km                                    360
101-150 km                                   540
151-200 km                                   630
Above 200 km, per 100 km or fraction           180
thereof with a maximum charge per
3 minutes of                                  1,350
(c) For calls from a public station the
surcharges apply; they are fixed and
independent of the duration of the
call:
for local calls                               nil
for interurban calls up to 100 km              45
for interurban calls above 100 km              90
(d) For subscriber dialed interurban calls
the rate unit is 90 MF per puls; fol-
lowing figures give examples of puls
lengths applied:
From  Bamako to Kati               90 seconds
From Bamako to Koulikoro           60   e
From Bamkao to Ségou               18   fi
From Ségou to Bamako    -          18
From Ségou to Kati                 18
From Ségou to Koulikoro            30
(e) For subscriber dialed international
calls (to France only, at present) the
rate unit is 90 MF and the puls length
is 5 sec.
(f) For operator connected and timed interna-
tional calls, following figures are
examples of charges for the first 3 minutes
of the call; one third of the charges apply
for each additional minute or fraction thereof:
to Ivory Coast                 1,640
to Gambia                      1,640
to Senegal                     1,640



_ 52._                               ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 6
to Ghana                               3,685
to Algeria                             2,730
to France                              3,640
to Belgium                             4,914
to Uynited Kingdom                     4,914
to Switzerland                         4,914
to USSR                                6,552
to Canada                              5,460
to USA                                 7,690
B. Telegrams
1.  Internal tariff
(a)  Ordinary telegram, per word (minimum charge
is for 10 words)                                   40
(b)  Telegraphic money transfer, additional
charge for transfer                             1,600
(c)  Urgent telegram, per word (minimum
charge is for 10 words)                            80
(d)  Press telegram, per word (minimum
charge is for 10 words)                            20
(e)  Registered telegrauhic address
-for cne year                        12,525
-for 6 months                         7,500
-;-for 1 moiith                       2,025
2. International tariff
(a)  Ordinary telegram, example of charges per
word (minimum charge is for 7 words):
to Ivory Coast                          60.00
to Gambia                              316.68
to Senegal                              60.00
to Algeria                             145.60
to Tanzania                            617.89
to France                              145.60
to Belgium                             253.89
to United Kingdom                      258.62
to Switzerla.4d                        248.43
to USSR                                344.89
to Canada                              262.99
to USA                                 271.18
(N.Y. city                         229.32)
(b)  Urgent telegrams, Dress telegrams, and letter-telegrans:
Mali applies internationally accenred r-oles.



- 53-                         ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 6
C. Telex
1.  Cost of installation and conrection
(a) Connection charge                              45,000
(b) Installation charge                            24,750
(c) Guaranty deposit(reimbursable at the
termination of subscription when
ouitstanding charges pa d)                   270,000
(d) Line installation and construction cost,
same as for telephone, see item A,--
4(a)(b) above.
(e) Investment constribution for the connec-
tion linè.:same as for a telephone
installation, see item A, 5(a),(b),(c)
above.
2. Monthly charges
(a)(i) Subscription fee for an installation within
a built up area                             6,750.
(ii) Additional subscription fee per lm outside
built up area                                  900
(b) M.onthly rental of the teleprinter               20,250
if  "t switch device              1,800
i' "t pre-perforator
and auto-transmltter                             6,750
(c)  Monthly maintenance charge (fixed) for
appasatuses installed at subscriber's
premises                                        9,000
3. Transfer to another location                         22,500
4. Communication charges
(a) Local communications, per 90 sec.or
fraction thereof                                    90
(b) Long distance communications within the
country, por 30 sec.or fraction thereof             90
(c) International com-unications; the 'ollowdng
figures givz examples cf charges per
minute with a minimum charge for three
minutes:
to Ivory Coast                         910.00
to Gambia                            1,670.00
ta Senegal                             910.00
to Ghana                             1,671.30
to Algeria                             91(.00



- 54'-                      ANNEX 9
Pa~ge 6 of 6
910.00
to France                               1.671.30
to Belgium                               2g228.40
to United Kingdom                        1,671.30
to Switzerland                          1,532.00
to USSR                                  2,228.40
to Canada                                ,
to USA                                   &.,228.40



- 55 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
MAL]~
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Study of Tariff Structure
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The purpose of the study is to develop the principles which shouid
guide formulation of an appropriate structure of tariffs for
telecommunications services in Mali, and to apply these principles in the
form of a recommended structure of tariffs for application for 1984 through
1986.
2.         The basic approach to establishing an appropriate tariff structure
will be that of marginal cost pricing, with the constraint that overall
revenue generation must be sufficient to ensure financial viability of the
telecommunications entity. Marginal cost may take either of two forms:
(a) cost to the telecommunications entity of additional
supply; and
(b) cost to the other competing user of doing without the
service, where capacity is insufficient to meet the
demand.
Thus the study has to have both a cost accounting dimension and a demand
assessment dimension, as well as to include a financial analysis to assess
the adequacy of revenues generated from the point of view of financial
viability.
Cost Accounting
3.         The purpose of this part of the work is to identify the marginal
cost of the principal different telecommunications services offered,
distinguishing between Bamako, major regional towns and country areas:
(a) provision of telephone connection;
(b) local calls;
(c) long distance calls;



- 56 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
(d) international calls; and
(e) telex, and same subcategories.
Such costs will be specified in 1982 values.
4.         The base of the calculations will be:
(a)  financial accounts of the enterprise;
(b)  operating records of the enterprise;
(c)  spot-checks to establish on a sample basis the marginal
costs of particular services; and
(d)  relevant data available from other telecommunications
administrations.
Demand Assessment
5.        The purpose of this part of the work is to assess the strengths of
demand for each of the different services offered by the telecommunications
entity, and the sensitivity of that demand to the prices which might be
charged. This is needed for two purposes: (a) in order to estimate the cost
to users (or potential users) of doing without the service, for cases where
it is not possible to meet demand fully; and (b) in order to identify those
services which are in least elastic demand (i.e., demand will be least
affected by price changes), so lthalt they should be made to bear the major
part of any mark-up necessary to cover overheads and enable the
telecommunications entity to attain overall financial viability.
6.         This work will require thorough review of existing records on
applications for service, calling rates, ineffective calls, etc., followed by
surveys of a sample of existing and potential users in order to deepen
knowledge of the strength of demand for the different services and of the
amounts that customers would be pr,epared to pay for the different services
(or that they would suffer as losses, or extra expenses, if the services were
not available).
Social and Developmental Considerations
7.         Attention must be given, in connection with the Demand Assessment,
to the possible need to charge certain incipient users, e.g., services in
distant rural areas, or public call offices, at rates below those that would
be indicated by marginal cost and financial viability considerations, as a
means to stimulate socially highly desirable use. Certain limited
cross-subsidization of this nature may be a worthwhile means of bringing
telecommunications facilities within the reach of development centers and
poorer people who would otherwise be excluded.



_ 57 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
Financial Analysis
8.         The approximate tariffs for the different services (some of which
may turn out to need to be cost-based while others may need to be more
demand-based) must then be multiplied by estimated levels of service
requirements to assess total revenues for 1982 and the following five years.
These should be compared with updated projections of costs, to assess the
future financial status of the enterprise.
9.         Iterations may be required in order to produce a structure of
tariffs that is consistent with financial viability.
Final Results
10.       The results of the study should be a recommended set of prices for
the various services, with alternative possibilities where appropriate, and
projections of the effect of application of such prices on the enterprisels
revenues and financial performance. Recommendations should also be made as
to how the tariffs should be adjusted over time in light of changes in costs
including inflation.
Resources Required
11.       The study will require approximately six weeks of effort on the
part of an economist, a financial analyst and an engineer, each with
experience in telecommunications, and supplemented by the necessary staff to
assist with survey work.



- 58 -                             ANNEX 11
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.         The benefit period of thie program extends from 1981 to 2001, when
on average the equipment provicled under the program is expected to approach
the end of its useful life.
2.         Capital estimates excluding future works are based on the estimated
requirements during the program and 'investments have been adjusted to reflect
1981 values.
3.         Incremental operating costs and revenues are those associated with
the investment program and have been deflated to 1981 values.
4.         The following is a summary of the program's incremental cost and
benefit streams, in million of MaLi francs, at 1981 price levels.
Capital      Operating    Operating
Year   Investment       Costs        Revenues
1981        298          64             348
1982     7,199            -            658
1983     5,239            -          1,116
1984     2,270           43          1,726
1985        651         289          2,455
1986-
2001          0         289          2,659
5.         Internal rate of return for the foregoing benefit stream is 15%.
6.         Estimating the future consumer surplus by assuming that present and
future subscribers are willing to, pay for service in real terms at the 1981
price level, the economic rate of return is 25%.
7.         Sensitivity analyses indicate that an increase of 10% in capital
investment costs would result in a return of 23%; and a 10% decrease in
revenue would result in a 22% ret,urn. Were all three of these situations
experienced, the rate of return would decrease to 20%.



-59-                                                                                  ANNEX 12
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Organization Chart
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION                         Othar Mihsories
AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS                          Ch-ebr of Conterce
s1 Boerd of Direc;,rs                          OPainnan  ^   r  and Industrv                   r MINISTRY OF
1  1                                                               1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDUCATION
BO8ARD OF DIRETS
3E%           65% 
DIRECTOR GENERAL             mmmm _4 _  _  MANAGEMENT
DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL
(Chief Of one of thes
Divi,i..s in DG'. 0ffice)
s~~ec o, n    Divsion of       ~                                            National
[      I         ]        Econant       [                          osion of           SohoolDvor
Fisce                                                Telecomun,ications
NTERNATIONAL                   D                                               CENTRAL ACCOUNTING
TE '                     C ~~~~~IRECTOR                                          AGENCY'
TLECO NATION MMUNICATIONS                              DIRECTOR POSTSi A
COMPANY OF MALI           TELECOMUUNICATIONS                                            f *Cie ,PT Offiiai1
Stanps endAntanan
-|Adonnietratîve Division |  SLtodies end P,otre,,,|
|Telecom;munications          Dîreccor Posts
ii|Studios and Progrems |         Administration
Division t                Division
| Transmission        | Postai Orperations |
ii|  Division                   Division
4    Nevison k                 Division
DivonDivsiosion
|                , |       ~~~~~~~Staoips acunds
Oi,erecors         D~~~~Piviio
Divisionio
I 
EIGHT REGIONAL DIRECTORS
>------------- ---
| Chiof, Tolecomrunications |
Sector                                                          ot  ûn-39



- 60 -                            ANNEX 13
MALI
OFFICE DES POSIES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TEL.ECOMMUPICATIONS PROJECT
Annual Investment Program
(in T111Lons of Mall francs)
Financing Source      1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1981-1985
Project Investment
IDA II                      117    1,511   2,076   1,866   1,180         6,750
CCCE II                      il      510   2,348       673      308      3,850
OPT (local currency)          -      413      635      496      506      2,050
Total project investment 128    2,434   5,059   3,035   1,994          12,650
Other Investments
AfDB/NTF                      -       487     609      852      487      2,435
CIDA                          -    5,270      580      873        -      6,723
ECOVAS project ('not a
source)                      -         -       -        -     895         895
OPT                         200      520      720      765      119      2,324
Total other investments  200    6,277   1,909   2,490   1,501          12,377
Total program investment 328    8,711   6,968   5,525   3,495          25,027



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMKOICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement
Actuals 1977-79; 1980 Estimate; 1281-85 Forecast
(in million of Mali Fr-ancs)
19'?7        1978         1979         1980          1981         1982          1983         1984          1985
I NOOME
POUSTYAL SERVICES                       611.0         592.0        533.0        517.0         783.2        916.1          961.9      1.009.9      1,060.4
FINANCIAL. SE,.RVICES                     Y6.0         74.0         84.0          76.0         87.4        102.6          102.6        102.6        102.6 
TEL.EPHONE                              798.0         889.0       1216,0       27b9.0       3.079.5      3,951.8        4.589.9      5,524.2      6,732. 3
TELEG3RAPH                               60.0          70.0         57.0        284.0         284.0        284.0         284.0        284.0         284.0
TELEX                                   320.0         326.0        369.0        271.0         298.1        327.9         360.7        396.8         436.4
MI SCEL LANEOUIS                         136,0        159.0        369.0        189.0         189.0        189.0         189.0        189.0         189.0
TO A   NC M .~7- -                                                                    -----   --              -----....----         -----         
TOTAL INCOME                ~~~~~~2001.0   2110>.0      2628.0       4096.0       4. 721 .2     5.771.4       6.488.1      7,506.5       8,804.7
OPERATINo EXFPE'NSE.
PERsoNNEL~t                              846.0        974.0       1233.0       1172.0       1,262.2       1,361.6       1.469.4      1,585.7      1.712.5
IIEPRFUCIATrIoN                         229.0         280.0        324.0        .393.0        512. 9        558.7         611.6        835.5      1,127.4
O THER                                  843.0         918.7         992.3      1,251.0      1.347. 7      1,494.3       1.553.6      1,878.1      2,435.0
TOTAL OF*~RÀTrNo EXPENSE     1918.0        2,172.7      2,549.3      2,816.0      3,1l2 2. 6    3,414.6       3,634.6      4,299.3       5,274.9
NET~39 - INTOE BEST    NEES                30-6.                      87         ,8.        1.598.6       2,356.8       2,853.5      3, 207. 2     3,529.8       I
LESU   INTERE~~~~~~~T~5.3.0                  50.3          72.7         65040.8                  144.7        244.1         470.1        703.3
NET INCOME              30.0        113.0          ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~6,0  1215.0  1,557.8  2,212.1    2,609.4       2, 737. 1    2,826.5       o 41



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTE:; ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31
(in millions of Mali francs)
1977         1978         1979         1980         1981          1982         1983         1984          1985
As set s
Net fixed assets                      3,447.0      3,799.0      5,972.0       6,098.0      6,391.2      6,746.5       9,906.0    13,955.5    20,110.1
Work in progress                        873.0      2,145.0      2,502.0       2,522.0      2,094.0      9,941.0    13,188.0    13,878.0    10,141.0
Treasury account                      4,798.0    10,341.0    13,047.0    13,047.0    12,847.0    13,047.0    13,047.0    13,047.0    13,047.0
Current assets                        7,028.0      7,486.0    15,700.0    17,260.0    19,018.6    21,548.1    23,220.1    24,437.4    25,345.9
TOTAL ASSETS                         16,146.0    23,711.0    37,221.0    38,927.0    40,350.8    51,282.6    59,363.1    65,317.9    68,644.0
Liabilities
Equity                                3,874.0      3,843.0      5,564.0       7,681.0      9,243.6    17,248.6    20,450.9    24,290.7    27,474.1
Long-term debt                          873.0      2,145.0      2,502.0       1,830.3      1,839.6      3,722.8      8,129.2    10,691.7    12.024.5
Checking account deposits             8,923.0    14,042.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0
Current liabilities                   2,476.0      3,741.0    12,179.0    12,439.7    12,291.6         13,335.2    13,805.0    13,359.5    12,169.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    16,146.0    23,771.0    37,221.0    38,927.0    40,350.8    51,282.6    59,361.1    65,317.9    68,644.0
o 4-
o h



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Income Statement - Telecommunications Department
Actuals 1977-79; 1980 Estimate; 1981-85 Forecast
(in millions of Mali francs)
1977         1978          1979         1980         1981          1982          1983         1984          1985
Income
Telephone                               798.0        889.0       1,216.0      2,759.0      3,079.5       3,951.8      4,589.9       5,524.2       6,732.3
Telegraph                                  -             -            -         227.0         227.0        227.0         227.0         227.0        227.0                1
Telex                                   320.0        326.0         369.0        271.0         298.5        327.9         360.5         396.6        436.4               a,
Miscellaneous                            56.0         105.0        296.0        116.0         116.0         116.0        116.0         116.0         116.0
TOTAL INCOME                          1,174.0      1,320.0       1,881.0      3,373.0       3,721.0      4,622.7       5,293.4      6,263.8       7,511.7.
Operating Expense
Personnel                               478.0        555.0         695.0        649.0         713.0        785.0         864.0         950.0      1,045.0
Depreciation                            184.0        229.0         274.0        343.0         461.0        506.0         558.0         781.0      1,072.0
Other                                   464.0        521.7         640.3        93o.0       1,001.0      1,113.1       1,134.3       1,416.9      1,927.7
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSE               1,126.0      1,305.7       1,609.3      1,928.0       2,175.0      2,404.1       2,556.3      3,147.9       4.044.7
Net inçome before interest               48.0         (14.3)       271.7      1,445.0       1,546.0      2,218.6       2,737.1       3,115.9      3,467.0
Less - interest                          11.0          45.3         69.7         65.0          47.6         144.7        244.1         470.1         703.3
NET INCOME                               37.0         (31.0)       202.0      1,380.0       1,498.4      2,073.9       2,493.0       2,645.8      2,763.7
Operating ratio %                        96            99           85           57            58            52.0         48.3          50.3          53.8
Rate of return %                                        1            6            13           15            20           20            17            13
o '



-64-                     ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
AiALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMNUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECO ' JNICATIONS PROJECT
Sources and Applications of Funds - Telecommunications Department
(in millions of Mali francs)
1981      1982       1983       1984      1985
Sources
Net income after interest        1,498.4   2,073.9   2,493.0   2,645.8   2,763.7
Add depreciation                   461.0      506.0     558.0      781.0   1,072.0
1,959.4   2,579.9   3,051.0   3,426.8   3,835.7
Grants                              11.0   5,311.0      583.0      955.0      172.0
Long-term Loans                    1:L7.0   2,477.0   4,975.0   3,483.0   2,339.0
TOTAL SOURCES                    2L,07.4  10,367.9   8,609.0   7,864.8   6.346.7
Applications
Program construction costs         328.0   8,711.0   6,968.0   5,525.0   3,495.0
Loan repayments                    107.7      563.8     568.6      920.5   1,006.2
Changes in working capital      1,651.7   1,093.1   1,072.4   1,419.3   1,845.5
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               2,087.4  10,367.9   8,609.0   7,864.8   6,346.7
Self-generated funds as
% of construction costs   over 1.00          23        36         45         81



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Balance Sheet as at December 31 - Telecommunications Department
(in millions of Mali francs)
19771        1978         1979         1980          1981         1982         1983          1984         1985
Assets
Fixed assets - gross                  4,222.0      4,773.0      7,211.0       7,685.0      8,441.0      9,305.0    13,026.0    17,861.0    25,093.0
Less accumulated depreciation         1,275.0      1,493.0       1,768.0      2,111.0      2,572.0      3,078.0       3,636.0      4,417.0       5,489.0
Net fixed assets                      2,947.0      3,280.0      5,443.0       5,574.0      5,869.0      6,227.0       9,390.0     13,444.0    19,604.0
Work in progress                        873.0      2,145.0       2,502.0      2,522.0      2,094.0      9,941.0    13,188.0    13,878.0    10,141.0
Receivables                           1,765.0      1,925.0      2,379.0       4,400.0      2,665.0      2,458.0       2,362.0      2,267.0       2,087.0
Inventory                               963.0      1,639.0      1,594.0       1,500.0      1,500.0      1,400.0       1,300.0      1,200.0       1,200.0
Other                                   633.0        822.0       1,210.0        700.0        700.0         800.0        900.0      1,000.0       1,000.0
Cash                                       -             -         124.0        109.0        496.0      2,248.0       3,546.8      4,392.2       5,516.7
Total current assets                  3,361.0      4,386.0      5,307.0       6,709.0      5,361.0      6,906.5       8,108.8      8,859.2       9,803.7
TOTAL ASSETS                          7,181.0      9,811.0    13,252.0    14,805.0    13,324.0    23,074.5    30,686.8    36,181.2    39,548.7
Liabilities
Capital                                 135.0         135.0        135.0        135.0        135.0         135.0        135.0        135.0         135.0
Retained earnings                     3,472.0      3,441.0      3,643.0       4,997.0      6,495.4      8,569.3    11,062.3    13,708.1    16,471.8
Grants                                     -             -       1,519.0      2,282.0      2,293.0      7,604.0       8,187.0      9,142.0       9,314.0
Total equity                          3,607.0      3,576.0       5,297.0      7,414.0      8,923.4    16,308.3    19,384.3    22,985.1    25,920.8
Long-term debt                          873.0      2,145.0      2,502.0       1,830.3      1,839.6      3,722.8       8,129.2    10,691.7       12,024.5
Amounts due ptl. & fin. svs.          1,566.0      2,149.0      4,677.0       4,677.0      1,677.0       1,000.0        500.0            -            -
Payables                              1,135.0      1,941.0         776.0        883.7        884.0    _2,0t434        2.673.3      2.504.4       1,3.603
Total current liabilities             2,701.0      4,090.0       5,453.0      5,560.7      2,561.0      3,043.4       3,173.3      2,504.4       1,603.4         ° 
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     7,181.0      9,811.0    13,252.0    14,805.0    13,324.0    23,074.5    30,686.8    36,181.2    39,548.7



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOIMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Income Statement - Postal/Financial Department
Actuals 1977-79; 1980 Estimate; 1981-85 Forecast
(in million of Mali Francs)
1977        1978         1979         1980        1981         1982         1983         1984         1985
INCOME
POSTAL SERVICES                       611.0        592.0        533.0        517.0       783.2        916.1        961.9      1.009.9      1.060.4
FINANCIAL SERVICES                      76.0        74.0         84.0         76.0        87.4        102.6        102.6        102.6        102.6
TELEGRAPH                               60.0        70.0         57.0         57.0        57.0         57.0         57.0         57.0         57.0
MISCELLANEOUS                           80.0        54.0         73.0         73.0        73.0         73.0         73.0         73.0         73.0
TOTAL INCOME                          827.0        790.0        747.0        723.0     1,000.6      1.148.7      1 9       5  19242.5 - 
OFERATING EXPENSE
PERSONNEL                              368.0       419.0        538.0        523.0       549.2        576.6        605.4        635.7        667.5
DiEPRECIATION                           45.0        51.0         50.0         50.0        51.8         52.7         53.6         54.5         55.4
OTHER                                  379.0       397.0        352.0        315.0       346.5        381.2        419-3        461.2        507.3
_________ _______________--- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- oo |
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSE               .792.0       867.0        940.0       888.0        947.4       1010.4       1078.3       1151.4       1230.2
-  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -_-__ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_- - - - - - - - - - --_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_- - - - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST              35.0       -77.0       -193.0      -165.0          53.2       138.3         116.2        91.1         62.8    ^ a
TESS - INTEREST                         42.0         5.0          3.0      -
NET INCOME                              -7.0       -82.0       -196.0      -165.0          53.2       138.3         116.2        91.1         62.8



MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Balance Sheet as at December 31 - Postal/Financial Department
(in millions of Mali francs)
1977         1978         1979         1980          1981         1982          1983         1984          1985
Assets
Gross fixed assets                      688.0         757.0        818.0        863.0        878.0         893.0        908.0         923.0        938.0
Accumulated depreciation                188.0         238.0        289.0        339.0         355.8        373.5        392.0         411.5        431.9
Net fixed assets                        500.0         519.0        529.0        524.0         522.2        519.5         516.0        511.5         506.1             a
-4
Treasury account                      4,798.0    10,341.0    13,047.0    13,047.0    12,947.0    13,047.0    13,047.0    13,047.0    13,047.0
Current assets                        2,713.0       1,684.0      8,427.0      8,506.0      8,506.0       8,506.0      8,506.0       8,506.0      8,506.0
Receivables                               92.0        174.0        370.0        535.0         630.2        125.9         159.8        197.3        238.7
Inventory                               279.0        538.0         532.0        531.0        531.0         531.0        531.0         531.0        531.0
Other                                 2,067.0      2,842.0       5,623.0      5,538.0       2,538.0      1,861.0      1,361.0         861.0         861.0
Cash                                     82.0          11.0        118.0        118.0      3,129.4       4,617.7      5,053.5       5,482.9      5,405.5
Total current assets                  5,233.0      5,249.0    15,070.0    15,228.0    15,334.6    15,641.6    15,611.3    15,578.2    15,542.2
TOTAL ASSETS                         10,531.0    16,109.0    28,646.0    28,799.0    28,703.8    29,208.1    29,174.3    29,136.7    29,095.3
Liabilities
Capital                                 128.0         128.0        128.0        128.0         128.0        128.0         128.0        128.0         128.0
Retained earnings                         48.0        (35.0)      (231.0)      (396.0)       (342.8)      (204.5)        (88.3)          2.8         65.6
Government contributions                  91.0        174.0        370.0        535.0         535.0      1,016.8       1,026.9      1,174.8       1,359.7
Total equity                            267.0         267.0        267.0        267.0         320.2        940.3       1,066.6      1,305.6       1,553.3
Checking account deposits             8,923.0    14,042.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0    16,976.0
Current payables                      1,341.0       1,800.0    11,403.0    11,556.0        11,407.6    11,291.8      11,131.7    10,855.1    10,566.0                o x
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    10,531.0    16,109.0    28,646.0    28,799.0    28,703.8    29,208.1    29,174.3    29,136.7    29,095.3                        '



- 68 -                          ANNEX 17
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts of OPT's Telecommunications Department
(Figures in MF millions)
1. Revenue from telephones is based on (a) times (b):
(a) average revenue per line: 633 in 1981, 752 in 1982, 790 in 1983,
837 in 1984, and 887 in 1985, 940 in 1986;
(b) average number of lines in use: 4,865 in 1981, 5,255 in 1982,
5,810 in 1983, 6,600 in 1984 and 7,590 in 1985, 8,730 in 1986.
2. Revenue from telegraph services is constant at 227 for each year 1981-85.
3. Revenue from telex service for 1980 is 271 and increases 10% per year
during 1981-85.
4.  Miscellaneous revenue is constant at 116 per year during 1981-85.
5.  Expense - Personnel cost increases at 10% per year, 1981-85.
6.  Expense - Other about 90% of this cost relates to maintenance and
therefore is maintained at about 13% of gross fixed assets in line with
historical actuals; 10% per annum is added as from 1982 to take account of
cost increases caused by an increasing number of remote installations.
7. Depreciation is based on the opening balance of gross fixed assets at the
beginning of the year (ending of previous year) and is calculated at 6% per
year.
8. Balance Sheet - Work in progress is transferred to fixed assets at 30%
in year following investment and 30% and 40% in
following years.



- 69 -                          ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
MALI
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Assumptions for Postal/Financial Services Forecast
1. Income
(a) Postal services - 25% increase to 646 in 1981 and by 5% p.a.
thereafter; rate increase on July 1, 1981 adds to the figures as it
sets through.
(b) Financial services - stabilize at 1980 level (MF 76 million); rate
increase on July 1, 1981 adds to the figures as it sets through.
(c) Miscellaneous - stabilize at 1981 level (MF 130 million).
(d) Telegraph - stabilize at 1980 level (MF 57 million).
2. Expense
(a) Other expense - increase 10% per year over 1980.
(b) Depreciation - 6% per year on opening of balance of gross fixed
assets.
3. Investment - Stabilize at MF 50 million per year (fixed assets).
4.  Loans to Telecommunications Department - none.
5. Debt Service - none.
6. Government subsidy will equal decifit, (if any), and becomes a receivable
on last day of current year (with government contributions).
7. Reduce gross fixed assets and accumulated depreciation in equal amounts
each year (1981-85) equivalent to 70 percent of the annual investment, i.e.,
(.70 x MF 50 million = 35) reflecting retirement of about 15 postal vehicles.
8.         Reflect any change in working capital (from the source and
application of funds calculation) as an increase or decrease in current
assets - cash. In 1981 only, Treasury will be reduced by 200 and added to
cash to avoid a negative cash balance.



- 70 -                            ANNEX 18
Pag  2 of 2
9.         Subsidy receivable from government arrears through 1980 (MF 535
million) will be paid in 1982, and subsequent deficits paid in the year
following incurrence.
10.       Receivables will not change during 1981-85.
11.       Inventory will not change during 1981-85.
12.       Other current assets will not change during 1981-85.
13.       Deferred charges will not change during 1981-85.



0:  00:  f ;  -                                                             D                                                          '  - f''D!''g rW'EE tE'   E'i!E;  Q            t 
j' >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t~~~~~~~~~~~
Pill                   tr'                                                                                          °
"î _      3f~ ,           2                           e     X_SS 
5'  - --.`-   -: -   .   :     .E '--                                                             -'ja- g        Q 7 f\ °7  l- -i:
.r-   '='            E        '-9 ' '  -M  ~ -  ,   '                                 '-'                 _
0e-    Id ;~                                                                                                       z     0Xf;   
j  t       > _    "3      )                    o  0 : ,                                      0t                              i        f  
<-        "k     Iç                   ;    S     >      54 -                                  ::    00                        X:        i
,c    00          'N XX < i  rj                    j                           -                 :  0 :-    3-01 l 



