Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3170-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
December 8, 1981
This document has a restricted distribufion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Malian Franc (MF)
MF 1 million    =  US$2,000
US$1            =  MF 500
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANI) ACRONYMS
CCCE    -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
OPT     -  Office des Postes et Telecommunications
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
TIM     -  Telecommunications Internationales du Mali
WAMU    -  West African Monetary Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Mali
Beneficiary:       Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT)
Amount:            SDR 11.8 million (US$13.5 million)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  Government to OPT:  5 year grace, 20 year term; 10.6 percent
interest per annum initially, to be revised to applicable
rate for public enterprises upon Mali's reentry into West
African Monetary Union. Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) will contribute US$7.7 million equivalent
at 6 percent with a repayment period of 15 years including a
3 year grace period.
Project
Description:      The project would enable OPT to acquire and install physical
facilities essential to the improvement and the expansion
of its services. It would also aim at developing the
institutional aspects of OPT and in particular its telecom-
munications department, financial management, planning,
programming, and statistical services. The project would
provide for (a) the construction of an automatic telephone
exchange and the expansion of an existing exchange at a
regional capital; (b) the substantial expansion of the
local cable network in Bamako and the construction of such
networks in about eight provincial cities; (c) the construc-
tion of a microwave radio relay link on the route Segou-
Sevare; (d) the construction of a number of VHF, UHF and SkF
links to serve district and subdistrict centers; (e) the
installation of a new telex exchange in Bamako; (f) tools,
instruments and vehicles for installation, operation and
maintenance; and (g) technical assistance for design
engineering and maintenance of installations, local training
and fellowships for training abroad.
Project Risks:    Risk of delay in project implementation is considered
acceptable with specific measures recently taken by Govern-
ment to improve OPT management and financial operations and
with agreed performance indicators for monitoring efficient
project execution. In addition, the proposed project
comprises a large number of relatively independent activi-
ties, and a delay in completion of some works would not
normally prevent the use of other newly created assets.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Second Telecommunications Project
Estimated Costs (net of taxes and duties, which do not apply to OPT)
Foreign   Local   Total
-----US$ million-----
A.   Physical Facilities
Local Telephone network                         4.0       4.6    8.6
Interurban network                              6.3       0.3    6.6
Telex                                           1.3        -     1.3
B.   Tools, Instruments and Vehicles                 0.9        -      0.9
C.   Technical Assistance and Training  1/           1.8       0.1    1.9
Base Costs                            14.3       5.0   19.3
Physical Contingencies                 0.6       0.2    0.8
Price Contingencies                    3.4       1.8    5.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            18.3       7.0   25.3
Financing Plan:
IDA                                     11.0       2.5   13.5       53
CCCE                                     7.3       0.4    7.7       31
Government (OPT)                           -       4.1    4.1       16
Total                                   18.3       7.0   25.3    1UO
Estimated Disbursements:           FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Annual                 0.3 I/ 1.7    2.9    3.1    2.6    1.8    1.1
Cumulative             0.3    2.0    4.9    8.0   10.6   12.4   13.5
1/   Includes US$0.31 million PPF advance
Rate of Return: The estimated ERR is 25 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3561-MLI
Map: IBRD 15789



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE FXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUbLIC OF MALI
FOR A SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 11.8 million (US$13.5 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Second Telecom-
munications Project. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCt)
will contribute US$7.7 million equivalent on terms of 6 percent interest per
annum with repayment over 15 years, including a three year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Two reports entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (3200-MLI) and
"Mali-Special Economic Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan"
(3333-MLI) were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981.
The following paragraphs are based on these reports and findings of World
Bank and IMF economic missions during April-June and August-September 1981.
Annex I gives country data.
Background
3.        Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world.  Covering 1.24
million square kilometers in the middle of sub-Saharan West Africa, this small
country of about seven million persons had a 1980 GNP per capita of only
US$190. It manifests all the signs of a least developed country, including a
subsistence-oriented economy (85 percent of the population depends on the
primary sector), dependence on a few commodity exports, an extremely low rate
of domestic savings (minus 3.6 percent of GDP in 1980), a high population
growth rate (2.6 percent), a low level of education (10 percent literacy), and
difficult living conditions that give a life expectancy of only 43 years.
4.        There are serious structural constraints to growth in Mali.  Exploi-
tation of mineral resources--including petroleum--is severely hampered by lack
of geological data, by isolated deposits where access is difficult, and by
high investment costs. Industrial growth is limited by narrow domestic
markets, by poor infrastructure, and by inexperienced management. Moreover,
three-fifths of the industrial sector depends closely on agricultural pro-
duction for inputs. Thus, future growth will have to rely largely on the
agricultural sector, which comprises 42 percent of GDP. Yet prospects for
1/   This section has been newly revised for this report.



-2-
significant and rapid growth in this sector are also limited. Malian agri-
culture is based mostly on a few low-yielding rainfed crops (millet and
sorghum) and on traditional livestock herding, neither of which appear to have
much potential for intensification. Rainfall is uncertain, which causes wide
swings in production from one year to the next. Soils are fragile and prone
to exhaustion and erosion, especially where rainfall is higher and cultiva-
tion more intensive. Human resources are impoverished, in part because access
to basic amenities like clean water, better health care, and educational
opportunities remains quite limited. For example, only about one-tenth of the
population has access to safe water and only about one-fourth of school age
children are enrolled in primary school. Transportation and communication
are extremely expensive by world standards, both because Mali is landlocked
(Bamako is 1,200 kilometers from both Dakar and Abidjan) and because internal
distances are vast (Kayes in the west is 1,750 kilometers from Gao in the
east). As a result, transport costs on foreign trade alone were equivalent to
9 percent of GDP in 1980; and the unit cost of delivering basic services to
the scattered population is high. Finally, Mali is an open economy; imports
and exports together amount to more than half of GDP. Trade is concentrated
in a few commodities--cotton and livestock comprise four-fifths of exports, and
petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of imports--making the country extremely
vulnerable to changes in world prices.
5.        Although these constraints make it difficult to achieve growth, Mali
has long-run potential. Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West
Africa, who have in the past tended to adopt improved technology and who are
likely to respond quickly to higher incentives. For instance, they have been
able to achieve the highest cotton yields in the region, in spite of lower
prices and more expensive modern inputs than elsewhere. Rainfed maize produc-
tion could be significantly expanded in the south where rainfall is higher,
especially as higher-yielding hybrids are developed and disseminated. Mali
has more irrigated rice land than any other Sahelian country, as well as the
largest physical scope for expansion--mostly in the vast inland delta of the
Niger river, although at present there are problems of maintaining existing
irrigation facilities and of developing profitable production techniques.
Potential hydroelectric generating capacity on the Niger and Senegal rivers is
estimated at 2,000 megawatts, with less than 3 percent now developed, although
it is difficult to envisage viable uses for this power. Except for cement,
gold, phosphates, and a few others, mineral resources remain largely unexplored
and unexploited but may offer longer-term opportunities. Although this
potential can provide a basis for long-run growth in Mali, most of it cannot
be counted on to contribute significantly in the short and medium term.
6.        In view of its limitations, the economy appears to have performed
well during the 20 years after independence (1960-80). Real GNP per capita
grew 30 percent (1.3 percent annually), more than most other Sahelian
countries. 1/ But trends mask wide swings from year to year caused by
climatic conditions; GNP declined in 1969, 1973, 1974, 1978, and 1980 but
1/   Economic growth rates given here are compound annual rates, calculated
from end points. For GNP and GDP, rates are always in constant prices.



grew by more than 10 percent in 1975, 1976, and 1979. Nor has the growth
been evenly distributed among sectors. For 1965-80--the longest period for
which detailed data are available--GDP growth was 4 percent per year, but
the primary and secondary sectors lagged (3.0 and 2.9 percent) while the
tertiary sector--comprising 48 percent of GDP by 1980--grew more rapidly
(5.3 percent). Food production per capita has performed especially poorly--
as in most of sub-Saharan Africa--declining by 13 percent between 1970 and
1980. The relatively poor showing of the productive sectors (agriculture and
industry) compared to the tertiary sector reflects public policies that have
consistently shifted resources into consumption and government services and
out of productive investment.
7.        Faced with severe structural constraints and lack of sufficient
resources to overcome them, economic management in Mali is particularly
difficult. Since independence, the government has attempted to promote growth
while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption from very low
levels. But in the process it has adopted and followed economic policies that
in practice have led by the end of the 1970s to financial and economic imbal-
ances of huge proportions. In 1979--the last year for which there are
accounts--financial losses of the 12 largest state enterprises were 5 percent
of GDP, roughly equivalent to their total value added. During 1980, the
current account deficit was a massive 17 percent of GDP; and the government
Treasury deficit was 40 percent of revenues. At the end of 1980, net foreign
assets of the banking system were negative by almost over US$250 million; gross
foreign reserves were sufficient to finance less than two weeks of imports;
and medium- and long-term external public debt had risen to 60 percent of GDP.
There are multiple. causes for these imbalances, and the origins of almost all
can be traced to continuing mistakes of economic management, which began in
the early 1960s.
Evolution
8.        Mali's economic history can be divided into three periods (1960-67,
1967-74, and 1974-80) based roughly on changes in economic and political
conditions. After independence, the first government undertook a major
program of modernization that included an independent monetary system, an
ambitious five-year development plan, a program of industrialization based
on state enterprises, and a welfare orientation intended to keep prices down
and to assure consumers with an adequate supply of basic commodities. During
this period, GDP increased at 3.1 percent per year and the structure of the
economy shifted somewhat away from agriculture--with the secondary sector
increasing from 10 to 13 percent of GDP and the tertiary, from 35 to 37. By
1966, 27 state enterprises were in existence, and their share of sales in the
modern sector had increased to 71 percent from only 24 percent in 1961. But
public pricing and investment policies created imbalances that could not be
sustained. Government budgetary deficits, which often exceeded 5 percent of
GDP, and state enterprise losses were financed through bank credit, which grew
at an annual rate of over 30 percent. This created excess demand that was met
1/   Economic growth rates given here are compound annual rates, calculated
from end points. For GNP and GDP, rates are always in constant prices.



- 4 -
through imports, and by 1967 the resource gap had risen to 16 percent of GDP
(compared to 4.1 in 1960) and the current account deficit amounted to 28
percent of GDP. Net foreign assets had declined from a positive level to a
minus US$ 56 million, and the debt service ratio had risen to 19 percent. The
economic crisis led to the signature in early 1967 of monetary accords with
France, to a 50 percent devaluation in mid-1967, and to reintegration with the
franc zone in early 1968. At that time, the French Treasury opened an Opera-
tions Account for Mali to provide overdraft facilities to support the conver-
tibility of the Mali franc.
9.        In late 1968--early in the second period, a new government assumed
power and launched an ambitious but pragmatic reform program that was to
include increases in official commodity prices and more liberalized private
trade--especially in cereals. The government was immediately confronted by the
shock of the severe Sahelian drought that began in 1968--when per capita food
production fell by 9 percent. By the end of the drought in 1974, the loss of
human life--though not fully known--had been severe among nomadic groups, the
young, and the elderly; two million head of cattle, or over one-third of the
herd, were lost; food production per capita had fallen by 30 percent, turning
Mali from an exporter into a net importer of food. As the country was just
beginning to recover from 6 years of drought, it was hit by a second shock: a
sudden rise in world petroleum prices, which quintupled between 1972 and 1974.
The legacy of economic disequilibria from the previous government, coupled
with these massive shocks, made it extremely diffi_u_, f_r the ..ei 8;cr=nt
to follow a course of sound economic management.
10.       Compared to 1960-67, performance during 1967-74 was poor.  GDP grew
at only 1.8 percent per year and real per capita income declined. Output in
the primary sector fell at 1.4 percent per year, although the secondary and
tertiary sectors--fueled in part by rapidly increasing foreign assistance--
continued to grow, at over 4 percent per year. By 1974, the primary sector
accounted for only 35 percent of GDP and the economy was now dominated by the
tertiary sector, which accounted for 49 percent. In an effort to assure
consumer access to essential commodities, the government resorted to large
imports of cereals when domestic output fell and to consumer subsidies in the
face of rising costs of imported and locally manufactured goods. To finance
losses incurred by state enterprises that imported and sold subsidized goods,
larger amounts of bank credit were used, especially in the early 1970s,
ultimately adding to external indebtedness. Efforts to suppress domestic
price rises, particularly of foodstuffs, depressed domestic food production
and exacerbated the need for further cereal imports. By 1974, the economic
imbalances--already bad 7 years earlier--had either not improved or had
deteriorated: the resource gap was one-third of GDP; dissaving was nearly
one-fifth of GDP; and the current account deficit remained high at 18 percent
of GDP. Net foreign assets had fallen by over 100 percent to a minus US$139
million, and public external debt more than doubled. The government budget
deficit stood at 3.5 percent of GDP. Thus, these years not only imposed great
human suffering on much of the Malian population, but they also left a heavy
legacy of debt for Mali's internal and external finances.



- 5 -
11.       After the end of the drought in 1974, economic performance in the
third period began to recover although financial imbalances continued to
worsen. GDP grew by 6.7 percent per year between 1974 and 1980. Agriculture
led this growth as it recovered from low drought levels, with 8.7 percent per
year, despite a significant decline in the terms of trade for farmers during
most of this period and poor crops in 1977 and 1979. The secondary sector,
however, virtually stagnated. As in many countries at this time, inflation
began to pose an additional problem for the country's economic management;
prices doubled in only 6 years. Public fiscal management proved largely
unable to cope with the continuing problems, and the country's economic
situation remains precarious despite its positive growth. Though improved
over 1974, the resource gap was equal to almost 19 percent of GDP in 1980; and
domestic savings were still negative. The deficit on current account remained
high at 17 percent of GDP. By the end of 1980, net foreign assets had fallen
by almost another 100 percent to minus US$249 million. This increase in
foreign liabilities, largely to the Operations Account, mostly reflected
the 16 percent annual growth in credit to the economy over the period, which
was needed to finance large government Treasury deficits (4.0 percent of GDP
in 1980, including modest capital expenditures) and large losses in the state
enterprise sector (US$60 million in 1979, or 5 percent of GDP). As the result
of borrowings to finance the 1974-78 plan, external public debt doubled again
to over US$850 million. Full recovery from the drought was made extremely
difficult by the country's structural constraints, by the dislocations
caused by the drought and subsequent world inflation, and by the financial
imbalances that have been deteriorating since independence.
12.       The continuing financial deterioration was basically caused by
the inability of the government to reverse policy orientations in the face of
large, external shocks. Owing to cost of living adjustments and expansion of
the Civil Service, the government's wage bill increased sharply over the
period. Although budget revenues did increase, the government Treasury
deficit tripled during the period. Losses of the public enterprises--often
the result of consumer subsidies and price freezes--were 17 times greater (at
current prices) in 1979 than in 1975. These consumption-oriented policies
kept demand above levels sustainable by the domestic economy, causing imports
to rise more than exports. Mali financed the increasing current account
deficit by overdrafts on the Operations Account plus grants from other donors,
at the cost of substantially reducing its net foreign assets and of diverting
scarce external resources from productive investment to current consumption.
Faced with worsening financial disequilibria coupled with reduced access to
central bank financing, the Malian government at the end of 1980 requested
technical and financial assistance from both the Bank and the IMF to help it
carry out a program of economic reform and adjustment.
13.       During the first half of 1981, despite difficult circumstances
including poor rains in 1980 and a further deterioration in the terms of
trade, the government has been able to initiate several major fiscal improve-
ments, including credit restraint, improved tax collection, new taxes on basic
consumer goods, fewer subsidies to offset price increases, restraint on
government personnel costs, savings on material, reductions in scholarships,



- 6 -
and suspension of some education expenditures. During the first six months of
1981, tax receipts were 38 percent above the level for the same period a year
earlier, while expenditures were held to only 80 percent of the budget (on an
annual basis). Credit expansion has been kept at a 10 percent annual rate.
Initial steps have been taken to restructure the state enterprise sector and
to improve the medium-term viability of key enterprises. For example, SOMIEX,
the state enterprise that exports cotton and groundnuts and imports basic
consumer goods, has already substantially lowered its operating deficit from
US$18 million in 1979 to a projected US$2 million or less in 1981 by reducing
wholesale activities, cutting staff, closing retail facilities, and raising
prices. To improve incentives for agricultural production, the government has
substantially raised commodity prices (by 21-23 percent for cereals and by
18 percent for cotton). With technical assistance financed by IDA, the role
of OPAM--the cereals marketing board--is being reduced to allow more private
trade in grains, and the board is being reorganized to make its remaining
operations less costly. Finally, in a move intended to strengthen Mali's
financial and monetary policy further, the government is to rejoin the West
African Monetary Union. While these are positive signs, it is still too early
to judge if the measures can be sustained. Similar efforts have been initiated
in the past but postponed because drought, world inflation, structural con-
straints and poverty leave the country little margin for maneuver.  There are
negative signs that foretell of continuing difficulties in reducing the budget
and current account deficits.  Education expenditures will markedly increase
in the last half of 1981 as schools are reopened after being closed for a
year.  Petroleum import prices have increased significantly in 1981 as the US
dollar has appreciated. Cotton production in 1981 is.the lowest since 1974,
caused both by late rains and by the 45 percent increase in fertilizer prices
needed to keep subsidies from growing. On balance however, the government's
actions warrant cautious optimism that economic reform will be continued. The
IMF is negotiating a Standby Loan to help support these adjustments.
Planning
14.       The government has recently drafted a new Five-Year Plan for Eco-
nomic and Social Development for 1981-85. Like those of the previous Plan
(1974-78), its broad objectives continue to give priority to water develop-
ment--for the rural population, livestock, and irrigation; to agricultural
and livestock production--especially for achieving food self-sufficiency, for
supplying an expanded agro-industrial sector, and for increasing commodity
exports; to energy development; and to conservation of natural resources--
especially forests and pastures. These investment objectives seem to accord
fairly well with the major economic constraints facing the country. The new
Plan represents an important departure, however, from the past in terms of
development strategy. It puts special emphasis on the need for policy reforms
to re-establish fundamental financial and economic equilibria, notably by
balancing the government budget, reducing the balance of payments deficit,
reducing the losses of the state enterprises, and controlling training and
recruitment for the Civil Service. The new Plan clearly accepts the co-
existence of the public, mixed, and private sectors, and it seeks to increase
local private participation in planning, financing, and maintaining investments
(like access roads and schools) and in carrying on production and trade.



Finally, the new Plan gives priority to maintaining existing infrastructure
investments rather than investing in new ones (especially in sectors like
transport). Compared to the last Plan, relatively fewer funds are being
allocated to agriculture (32 percent) and more to infrastructure, including
telecommunications (28 percent). The secondary sector will receive 32 percent
and social services, the rest.
15.       Investments proposed by the new Plan are estimated to cost US$2.2
billion (in 1981 prices and exchange rates), of which US$1.7 billion would be
required during the five-year planning period. Roughly 70 percent would be
used to finance actual capital investments, the rest being for supporting
expenditures. Foreign sources will be expected to provide over 85 percent of
the financing (compared to more than 90 percent for the 1974-78 Plan).
Although comparisons are difficult, the implied annual investment level
appears to be over 50 percent higher than the one attained in the previous
planning period (1974-80), during which roughly US$1.5 billion (in 1981
prices) were actually commited over 7 years. Judging from past experience
implementation of the Plan may encounter delays and difficulties. in project
preparation and execution. The real impact of the plan investments on growth
performance is also difficult to judge, but the proposed real GDP growth rate
(4.8 percent per year)--while modest compared to 1974-80, which were drought
recovery years--is well above the long-term average and may be too ambitious,
especially if other economic policies reduce the effectiveness of the invest-
ments. However, many of these implementation problems may be alleviated
during the 1981-85 Plan if the emphasis on policy reform and the government's
efforts to strengthen the operation of the Planning ministry materialize.
Foreign Aid
16.       Foreign aid finances practically all planned public investment in
Mali and is therefore critical for promoting future growth. The inflow of
foreign aid has increased rapidly--especially since the drought--with net
disbursements of official development assistance rising from only US$4 per
capita in 1970 to over US$28 per capita in 1979, an increase of 130 percent
in constant prices. More than half of this aid is in the form of grants,
and almost 95 percent of the rest is loaned on highly concessional terms by
official aid agencies. Long-term external public debt has also increased
substantially, rising from US$288 million in 1970 to US$853 by the end of
1980, about three-fourths of which is disbursed. Despite the absolute in-
crease in debt, it has declined in relative importance in the economy over the
last 10 years, falling both in terms of real debt levels per capita and as a
share of GDP. This shift reflects both the increase in official grant aid and
growing recourse to short-term liabilities drawn on the Operations Account,
which added another US$224 million (including unpaid interest) to total public
external debt at the end of 1980. Bilateral sources hold 59 percent of the
long-term debt; multilateral agencies provide another 39 percent; and private
sources account for the remainder. The USSR and the People's Republic of
China (PRC) hold three-fifths of the bilateral debt (about US$300 million),
most contracted in the 1960s. The other important bilateral lenders include
Egypt, France, Iraq, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia. IDA is by far the largest



- 8 -
multilateral lender, accounting for over half the multilateral loans and for
21 percent of total debt committed and outstanding. Actual debt service
payments on long-term debt have been modest, amounting to US$11.1 million in
1980, or only 4.1 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services. This
ratio is lower than in the late 1960s and the early 1970s, and has been made
possible by rescheduling some debts (as was done for USSR and PRC debts until
1983) and by conversion of some loans into grants (as was done for US$92.9
million in 1978 by Canada and the Federal Republic of Germany). However, the
debt-service ratio could rise significantly in the future unless further
rescheduling and conversion occurs, which seems probable.
17.       Sustained and viable growth of Mali's economy in the longer run
depends crucially on policy reforms that will strengthen the economy. However,
policy reforms take time, in large measure because the existing patterns of
high domestic consumption--both public and private--will have to be switched
carefully to avoid undue hardship on an already poor population. Regarding
needed new investments, Mali's financing capacity is severely constrained both
by the legacy of high spending levels in the past and by the limited savings
potential when per capita income is extremely low. IDA funds can help finance
sound productive investment, including a high level of recurrent, local-cost
financing to reduce delays in project implementation.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
18.       The proposed credit would be the Association's twenty-fifth credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to US$213.9 million equivalent. Of the twenty-
four operations already approved, nine have been for agriculture, seven for
transport, two for education, one each for telecommunications, small scale
industries, urban development, and petroleum exploration promotion. Trans-
portation and agriculture represent the largest share of past commitments,
each representing about 38 percent of total commitments. The experience with
ongoing operations has been mixed, the cotton project doing reasonably well,
while the other agricultural projects have experienced considerable difficulty.
Highway reconstruction and improvement has been successful while highway
maintenance has lagged. The railway and education projects are being imple-
mented, though somewhat behind schedule. Implementation is beginning on
forestry, urban and small-scale enterprise projects. In general, project
implementation and subsequent cost recovery has been hampered by Mali's dif-
ficult public finance situation. Notes on the execution of ongoing projects
are set out in Annex II.
19.       The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by (i) the extreme
poverty, poor health and low level of basic skills of a largely rural
population; (ii) a harsh natural environment with large fluctuations in the
availability of basic food supplies; (iii) a landlocked position with long
distances and difficult access to foreign markets; and (iv) an extremely



- 9 -
difficult macro-economic situation, in particular in the public sector.
The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance are (a) to support the
adoption of policies designed to encourage balanced economic growth, and to
redress the financial imbalances of the public sector and correct the biases
of expenditures now disfavoring rural areas; (b) to help finance investments
that will increase agricultural production; (c) to help meet the needs of the
rural population in terms of health, literacy and rural infrastructure; and
(d) to help provide an adequate transport and communications network. Given
the close linkages between macro-economic policy performance and project
implementation, the Government's ability to address policy issues is an
important determinant of the scope and timing of Bank Group lending.
20.       Future Bank Group lending for Mali will reflect a close liaison
between project objectives and related policy and institutional reform. In
the agricultural sector, follow-up operations to the sucessful Mali-Sud cotton
project (Cr. 669-MLI) and the Office du Niger technical assistance project
(Cr. 854-MLI) are scheduled. In both cases a major focus will be on pricing
and institutional issues. The recently approved Road Maintenance Project
(Cr. 1104-MLI) addresses the problem of generating and allocating adequate
recurrent cost financing in the road transport sector. A proposed project for
power distribution will aim at improving financial and technical management.
Interventions are also envisaged for rural health, rural water supply, and for
the production of biomass alcohol as a blend for gasoline.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
21.       Communications are extremely important in Mali, yet the means are
meager; distances are great, population is dispersed, transportation is
difficult, slow, and expensive. Efficient telecommunications services between
Bamako, the capital, and secondary centers are particularly necessary for
stimulating and supporting economic development outside the capital city and
for encouraging decentralization. At present, however, only very limited
telecommunications services are available along even the backbone route
Bamako-Segou-Mopti, which includes some of the country's most productive
areas. Of the total population in Mali, only 17 percent live in cities or
towns with access to some sort of telecommunications or telegraph. There are
only 52 telegraph offices in the country, and with one exception all telex
facilities are located in Bamako. Only two of the seven regional capitals in
Mali have satisfactory telephone service; six of 46 district centers have no
telephone service at all and 70 out of the 281 subdistrict centers have
neither telephone nor telegraph service.
Organization and Access to Service
22.       Telecommunications are under the control of the Ministry of Infor-
mation and Telecommunications. Operation and expansion of telecommunications
services are the responsibility of the "Office des Postes et Telecommunica-
tions" (OPT), an autonomous entity established in 1960, which also operates



- 10 -
the postal services and provides various public financial services--money
orders, postal checking accounts, and savings accounts. Another autonomous
organization, "Telecommunications Internationales du Mali" (TID), jointly
owned by the Government (65 percent) and "France Cable & Radio" (35 percent),
operates common carrier facilities for international services. No telecommu-
nication manufacturing industry of any significance exists in Mali. Televi-
sion has not yet been introduced and the radio broadcasting service, the
responsibility of a separate body, has a very limited coverage due to lack
of intercity transmission circuits.
23.       The number of main telephone connections (direct exchange lines) in
Mali is only 4,700 (end of 1980), which works out to a density of 0.06 tele-
phones per 100 inhabitants, one of the lowest in the world, and low regionally
as well; the average for Africa (excluding South Africa) is 0.40 telephones
per 100 inhabitants. Outside Bamako, which has 11 percent of the population
and 55 percent of the telephones, the density is only 0.01 or one connection
for every 10,000 persons.
Usage of Service
24.       The Government is the dominant user of telephone service and accounts
for about 40 percent of the revenues from telecommunications services. Due to
the shortage of lines and the relatively high subscriber connection charges, a
very large portion of residential telephones is used for professional and
business purposes. Public telephones, particularly those outside of Bamako
(70) are used very little due mainly to the poor intercity service offered.
Quantified data which would enable a comparison of service demands by various
categories of clients do not yet exist. Sample checks indicate that about
two-thirds of traffic in Bamako is local and one-third interurban and inter-
national.
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
25.       About 72 percent of the telephones in Mali are connected to local
automatic exchanges which provide a 24-hour service whereas the manual
exchanges function only during office hours and thus provide limited service.
It is estimated that more than 95 percent of local traffic, about 65 percent
of the interurban domestic traffic, and nearly 40 percent of the international
traffic is automatic.
26.       Full advantage cannot be taken of existing automatic exchanges in
Bamako, Segou, Kati and Koulikoro until the local cable networks are improved
and extended. One automatic exchange in Sikasso, an important regional
capital, does not have a satisfactory link to the national network. Manual
exchange links to the national network are either by open wire pole lines or
by HF radio, neither of which is satisfactory. Cancellation of calls using
line circuits varies from 25 to 50 percent; for calls using fF circuits more
than 50 percent are cancelled, indicating a very inferior service.
27.       International traffic to Europe and beyond and to Algeria is routed
by satellite circuits. Other African countries are served by HF circuits.
The satellite circuits provide reliable service, but during peak hours the



- 11 -
demand exceeds the capacity of available facilities, resulting in long waiting
times. The company which operates these facilities, Telecommunications
Internationales du Mali (TIM), is intending to increase capacity during 1982.
Demand for Service
28.       Applicants for telephone service cannot be given a firm delivery
time, with applicants for a residential telephone having to wait for two to
three years or more, despite the discouragingly poor quality of service at
many places. The official waiting lists (end of 1980) contain 1,800 registered
applicants, 1,348 of which are in Bamako. There is an additional latent demand
of probably the same size which emerges as expansion works are undertaken, and
also an important general demand from the Government for services in various
cities and towns throughout the country. It is expected that the number of
registrations on the official waiting lists will exceed one year's installation
capacity of OPT throughout 1981-85.
29.       The subscriber capacity of the present telex exchange was reached
more than a year ago and OPT has ceased accepting applications until tne
new exchange provided for in the proposed project has been put into operation.
The present unfilled demand is estimated at 150-200 subscribers.
Sector Goals and Constraints
30.       The goals established by the Government for medium-term telecom-
munications development are to:
(a) establish a long distance network which functions with an
acceptable reliability, and links the regional capitals
with one another and with the district centers;
(b) connect a maximum number of subdistrict centers and other rural
development centers to the main long distance network as this
network expands; and
(c) improve the local networks in all important cities and towns.
31.       The sector has suffered from Mali's macroeconomic situation.  Sector
development has been notably constrained by the lack of long-term foreign
exchange financing, which in turn has hindered the preparation of a realistic
investment program of sufficiently large scale. Another principal factor
retarding progress has been connected with OPT's organization, management, anG
manpower. OPT's statutes did not clearly define the duties and responsibili-
ties of its various departments and sections but did create a bureaucracy that
is much too heavy for a telecommunications administration, and has prevented
efficient operations. Senior management has changed frequently, making con-
tinuity difficult. OPT's personnel come under the national civil service system
where salaries are too low to attract the most qualified people. Consequently,
the number of well trained, experienced staff is too small and OPT has relied
heavily on consultants, often without the best results. Insufficient support
for training has also contributed to OPT's personnel problems. OPT's statutes,



- 12 -
however, were revised in March 1981 to define more clearly duties and respon-
sibilities, and to modernize procedures. The revision improves the structure
significantly and provides a foundation for modern and efficient operations
(paras. 43-45). In addition, the telecommunications department at present
has reasonably good management, training is being given more constructive
attention and technical assistance is being coordinated better than in the
past.
Past Bank Group Assistance
32.       IDA approved a US$3.6 million credit for telecommunications in
June 1972 (Credit 321-MLI). The project aimed at rehabilitating and expanding
the principal local and long distance facilities and was designed to meet
demand through 1977. In addition to physical plant, some limited technical
assistance was provided to OPT for engineering, management and accounting
services. Delays in getting the project started and a substantial cost
overrun resulted in a reduction in the scope of the project and CCCE partici-
pation in a new financing plan. Except for some cable work in Bamako, the
modified project was successfully completed in 1979. Based on the first
project, the second project aims as much at institutional development as at
supporting the investments. Two PPF advances were approved to assist in
preparing the second project--one financed the technical preparation which was
completed in December 1980; the other a financial expert who is working on
various tasks to strengthen financial management and accounting.
Performance Under Previous Credit 1/
33.       The project was one of the first in the telecommunications sector
in one of the poorest West African countries, and it is now evident that:
(a) preparation of the project was not sufficiently advanced at the time of
appraisal and initial supervision was inadequate; (b) the capability of the
beneficiary institution was overestimated; (c) there were probably too many
covenants which were somewhat overlapping, and not well understood by succes-
sive OPT managers; and (d) the social and political environment did not
support change as rapidly as hoped. However, even with the delays in con-
struction and installation, as well as a lack of substantial institutional
improvement, the results in a number of respects are positive: telephone
service, for those who have lines, is greatly improved; there is direct long
distance dialing; an increase in exchange switching capacity has greatly
decreased the time required for obtaining a dial tone; 23 percent more custo-
mers are being served and the quality of voice communication is noticeably
better.
1/   Summary of the Project Completion Report issued September 30, 1981.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
34.       The project is an integral part of the telecommunications investment
program for the period 1981-85 prepared by OPT with the assistance of a con-
sulting firm. A total advance of US$0.31 million was extended through the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the preparation of the project (para.
32). Appraisal took place in January/February 1981. Negotiations were held
in Washington in November 1981 with a Government delegation led by the Minister
for Information and Telecommunications. A Credit and project summary is given
at the beginning of this report and a staff appraisal report (No. 3561-MLI)
is being distributed separately. A supplementary project data sheet is at
Annex III.
Project Description
35.       The project will enable OPT to install physical facilities essential
to the improvement and expansion of its services. It also aims at the develop-
ment of the institutional aspects of OPT and, in particular, its telecommunica-
tions department, financial management, planning, programming, and statistical
services.
36.       The physical facilities, technical assistance, and training provided
for under the project comprise:
Component A (to be financed by CCCE)
(a) construction of a new automatic telephone exchange and expansion
work at an existing exchange in a regional capital;
(b) construction of a microwave radio relay link on the route
Segou-Sevare, with some spur links;
(c) provision of tools and instruments for installation, operation
and maintenance;
(d) provision of technical assistance for design, engineering and
maintenance of installations and for local training; fellowships
for training abroad;
Component B (to be financed by IDA and OPT)
(e) a substantial expansion of the local cable network in Bamako;
new construction of such networks at eight provincial cities;
provision material and equipment to connect new subscribers;
(f)  construction of a number of VHF, UHF, and SHF links to serve
district and subdistrict centers and other important rural develop-
ment centers, particularly in the Niger-Bani delta and in the
southern agricultural areas;



- 14 -
(g) installation of a new telex exchange in Bamako; provision of
teleprinters; and installation of voice frequency telegraph
equipment needed to connect remote teleprinter installations to
the Bamako center;
(h) provision of tools, instruments, and vehicles, for installation,
operation and maintenance; and
(i) provision of technical assistance for design, engineering and
maintenance of installations and for local training; fellowships
for training abroad; local training equipment and material.
Project Costs and Financing
37.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US~25.3 milllon of
which 72 percent (US$18.3 million) would be foreign exchange. OPT is exempted
from customs duties and taxes. The proposed IDA Credit of SDI 11.8 million
(US$13.5 million equivalent) would finance about 53 percent of the total
project costs. The Government would contribute US$4.1 million or 16 percent
of total project costs; these funds would be provided through OPT internal
cash generation and would represent about 59 percent of the local costs of
the project. Project costs and proposed financing plan are summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary.
38.       The CCCE will contribute US$7.7 million equivalent or 31 percent of
total project costs for procurement of certain equipment and installation
services from French suppliers, as well as the provision by French companies
of te"'rnicPl Assistantp nnd trAining of OPT qtaff in relation to this same
equipment. The CCCE loan will be to the Government for onlending to OPT on
conditions similar to other recent loans, that is, 6 percent interest per
annum and repayment over 15 years including a three year grace period.
Effectiveness of the CCCE financing is a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Development Credit Agreement (DCA) Section 5.01(b)).
39.       The Government will onlend the proceeds of the IDA Credit to OPT at
an annual interest rate of 10.6 percent for 20 years, including a five-year
grace period. This rate represents a positive rate with respect to recent and
projected domestic inflation and is commensurate with the present domestic
interest rate structure for public enterprises, which ranges between 8 and 15
percent depending on the type of enterprise, its financial condition, and the
extent to which the enterprise contributes to the Government's social develop-
ment priorities. Such a role is imposed on OPT, for example, in opening up
remote areas with telecommunications services that are not always remunerative.
To maintain parity with the domestic interest rate structure, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the 10.6 percent interest rate would be
revised to the applicable rate (expected to be higher) for public enterprises
when Mali rejoins the West African Monetary Union (para. 9; DCA Section
3.01(b)). The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and OPT is a condition of Credit effectiveness (DCA Section 5.01(a)).



- 15 -
Procurement
40.       All equipment to be financed by proceeds of the proposed IDA credit
will be procured through international competitive bidding (IC), except for
a few items costing a total of about US$350,000. The items excluded from
ICB are contracts for the laying of cables, accessories, tools, instruments,
and vehicles, with each contract costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. Such
contracts would be awarded following OPT local procurement procedures, which
are acceptable to IDA. Consultants will be engaged in accordance with the
August 1981 Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
41.       The Credit of US$13.5 million equivalent would be disoursed against
the following items and would cover 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures and 90 percent of domestic currency expenditures: cables, auxiliaries,
and subscriber material (US$3.1 million); radio link equipment and material
(US$2.3 million); telex, teleprinters and voice frequency equipment tUS*1.6
million); and tools, instruments, vehicles and training equipment (US$U.7
million). In the case of cable installation and duct works (US$2.4 million),
disbursement would cover 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures and bU
percent of domestic currency expenditures. Disbursement for technical assis-
tance, training and fellowships (US$1.1 million) would cover lU0 percent
of total contract cost. In addition, the PPF advance of US$0.31 would be
refunded upon effectiveness of the Credit and US$1.99 million would remain
unallocated. All requests for disbursements will be fully documented.
Project Implementation
42.       OPT will be responsible for project implementation.  Consultants
will prepare technical specifications for ICB and assist OPT in the prepara-
tion of contract documents. Suppliers will install equipment for telephone
exchanges, for radio links, and for the telex exchange. Certain portions
of the local cable network construction will be done by subcontractors; the
remainder by OPT workforce, which will also install telephone and telex
subscriber equipment. Internationally recruited experts will assist OPT
with operation and maintenance of complicated installations, and at the same
time train Malians on the job. Technical assistance has been estimated at
US$15,000 per work-month for about 60 months, including per diem, foreign
travel, and price and quantity contingencies. IDA will closely supervise
adherence to schedules and conditions so as to prevent a repetition of the
significant delays incurred under the first project.
Institutional Aspects
43.       OPT, the implementing agency, was established in 1960 as a govern-
ment-owned entity. It is governed by a fifteen-member board of Directors
chaired by the Minister of Information and Telecommunications. The chief



- 16 -
executive officer of OPT is the Director General who is appointed by the
Government and has responsibility for the administrative, technical and
financial activities of the entity. Under the new OPT statutes (para. 31), a
Managing Committee has been instituted to advise the Director General, which
should provide more management continuity, a problem in the past. OPT is
divided into two major departments--postal/financial and telecommunications--
each headed by a Director, and a central accounts unit headed by OPT's Chief
Accountant, all responsible to the Director General. OPT's activities in each
region (eight including Bamako) are headed by a regional director. The
Postal/Financial Department provides the usual postal services, countrywide
money transfer and public checking account services and a savings bank opera-
tion. OPT's telecommunications staff totalled 857 at the end of 1980 and
consisted of 26 engineers, 250 technicians and skilled workers, and 581 admin-
istrative positions. Although the total number of staff is high for the size
of the operation, the financial impact is relatively low and the operating
ratio is expected to be in the 65 percent range which is reasonable. Training
which in the past has not been systematized is now being more carefully con-
sidered and the training component in the technical assistance program will
be relied upon heavily.
44.       The statute creating OPT gives it an industrial and commercial
character and endows it with legal personality and financial autonomy. In
practice, however, the financial autonomy is inadequate, particularly since
OPT is required to bank with the Treasury with the consequence that deposited
funds are frequently unavailable to meet OPT's obligations. In August l19l
the Minister of Finance approved an arrangement for OPT to deposit its tele-
communications receipts in commercial bank accounts from which it meets its
expenditures under operating and investment budgets in regard to the telecom-
munications services; transfers from this account to OPT's account with the
Treasury may be authorized by the Minister of Information and Telecommunica-
tions, only after it is determined that the balance is in excess of the needs
to meet budgetary and other obligations. Under the proposed project, this
arrangement would be maintained (DCA Section 3.02 and PA Section 3.03).
45.       OPT operates under an annual budget which limits expenditures and
estimates revenues but otherwise has not in the past set out specific goals.
To control expenditures against the approved budget, all requests are cleared
through a special unit attached to the Director General's office. Other than
budgetary control, financial management has been nonexistant. The new statutes
enable, however, a delegation of authority throughout the OPT and clarify
internal relationships, which have been ambiguous. Thus, for example, the
Directors of Telecommunications and of Postal/Financial Services are now
independently responsible to the Director General for all aspects of their
operational and investment programs, determined by the government approved
budgets; the responsibility includes, inter alia, the approval of budgetary
expenditures and the staffing of the two sectors. The statutes also institute
a division of economic studies and finance. This division will coordinate the
objectives for operations as well as all financial activities of OPT, includ-
ing among other things a management information system.



- 17 -
Financial Aspects
46.       The historical pattern of financial performance shows that OPT's
Postal/Financial Department operates at a loss while the Telecommunica-
tions Department, responsible for managing over 90 percent of OPT assets,
generally operates at a profit. Under the credit agreement for the first
project the Government was required to subsidize the Postal/Financial Depart-
ment and this requirement would be retained in the proposed project (DCA
Section 3.04). Performance of the Telecommunications Department improved
considerably in 1979 after a deficit in 1978, and 1980's performance is
estimated at a 13 percent rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in use.
The improvement was made possible by increased number of customer connections
and increased traffic and reflects the results of the investment in the first
project. The rate of return on telecommunications average net fixed assets in
operation is forecast to range between 18 and 11 percent during the project
implementation period. It will be lowest at the end of the period when
considerable new fixed assets will be placed in service but it is likely to
increase again thereafter, as new investments begin to earn income.
47.       A 10 percent rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in opera-
tion was required annually in the credit agreement for the first project and
was met in some years; it is proposed that this covenant be increased to 12
percent for the proposed project as a minimum performance target. Although
this represents the lower limit of projected performance (para. 46), it would
be premature to fix a higher target prior to agreement on asset revaluation
and results of the tariff study to be financed under the proposed project
(para. 51). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by June 30,
1982, OPT will prepare a plan to review its fixed asset valuations annually
in accordance with a method acceptable to IDA for the purpose of monitoring
financial performance through a rate of return, beginning with the 1962
accounts (Project Agreement (PA) Section 4.03).
48.       The principal characteristics of OPT's overall financial position
is that current liabilities exceed current assets. This is the result of
using funds deposited with the postal/financial services to finance long-
term investments in telecommunications and increasing working capital,
primarily in accounts receivable and inventories. This would be a tolerable
situation if funds deposited with the Treasury were available when needed.
However, due to a severe liquidity problem, the Treasury is usually unable to
transfer the funds back to OPT, which is part of a macroeconomic problem being
addressed by the International Monetary Fund. In the context of the proposed
project, the problem cannot be solved, but action is proposed to increase
OPT's liquidity by requiring maintenance of designated bank accounts for OPT
(para. 44), and by enforcing covenants related to the current payment of the
postal subsidy (para. 46) and of bills for telecommunications services to the
Government, as well as by requiring the general acceleration of the billing
and collection procedures (DCA Section 3.03). At present the Government's
obligations to pay OPT the arrears on charges for telecommunications services
and the reimbursements for postal deficits equal approximately OPT's liabili-
ties to Government for service payments on Credit 321-MII. An agreement has



- 18 -
been reached to allow these items to cancel out by book transactions. The
balance of approximately MF 1 billion (US$2 million) di:e to OPT will be paid
through successive transfers in the national budget during FY83-85.
49.       Taken alone and apart from the liquidity situation, the financial
situation of the Telecommunications Department would be quite strong. Its
activities and size, excluding financial services, dominate OPT. In 198U,
93 percent of OPT's fixed assets were attributed to this Department and
the proportion will increase during the project period. Similarly, the
expected cash flow from telecommunications is of singular importance and
should begin to add liquidity to the system.
Billing and Collection
50.       The billing and collection function has been a serious problem in
spite of the relatively small number of subscribers. In February 1981, this
function was put on a small computer, which contributes significantly to
solving the problems of late billing and to improving collections. Collection
from the private sector is about equal to the billing. Collection from the
Government represents about 60 percent of the amount billed. Several of the
actions required as conditions of negotiations aimed at improving the root
problems in the billing and collection process and have been satisfactorily
met. Specifically, the delay in the preparation and distribution of bills
has been reduced to less than two months, as compared with several months on
average during 1980. From the 1981 budget, each ministry and state organism
has a separate budget for telecommunications expenditures. The Government is
in the process of settling its accounts with OPT in a debt offsetting transac-
tion (para. 48). All these actions were considered necessary preconditions
for finalizing a policy on collection. Measures to be authorized for OPT
to ensure payment of its telephone bills include suspension of service for
non-payment. OPT has already adopted satisfactory measures with respect to
private persons, state-owned companies and parastatal organizations. At
present, however, OPT cannot suspend service to the central government admin-
istration, the military and security forces. Special measures are under
consideration, such as quarterly prepayment against a percentage of anticipated
billing. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will pay on a current basis for the services rendered by OPT (DCA Section
3.03) and that by March 31, 1983 a comprehensive collection plan would be
furnished to IDA for comments and subsequently implemented by June 3u, 1983
(PA Section 3.04).
Tariffs
51.       Charges and tariffs for the installation, connection, and use of
telephone and telex facilities in subscribers' premises, for the use of public
telephones and of telex facilities, and for telegrams are established by
decree issued by the supervisory Minister after acceptance by OPT's Board of
Directors. The installation and connection charges were last increased in
1979. Other rates have not changed since 1975 although an increase in domestic
telephone tariffs of about 25 percent is expected to be implemented in January
1982. Agreement was reached during negotiations that if this increase is not



- 19 -
in effect by the time of Credit signing, it would be inserted in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement as a condition of Credit effectiveness. The tariff
structure is old and complicated; allocational aspects have not been a prime
factor in its design or in the level of rates. Whereas the annual rent is at
about average world level, installation and connection charges are higher than
in most countries, and charges for untimed local calls are almost a world
record. Interurban charges are also comparatively high. Assurances were
obtained that OPT will study its tariff structure under terms of reference
discussed during negotiations. This study would be completed by December 31,
1982, and the results and implementation implications reviewed with IDA not
later than June 30, 1983 (PA Section 3.05).
Inventory
52.       OPT's stock of supplies and spare parts is too large and needs
to be reduced. To correct the situation, a proper inventory has recently been
made, the valuation of the stock is being reviewed, and obsolete and deterio-
rated items purged from the books with the collaboration of auditors and the
financial expert (para. 54).
Financial Control, Accounting and Audit
53.       OPT operates under an annual budget which limits expenditures
and estimates revenues. In order to control expenditures, all requests are
cleared through a special unit attached to the Director General's office.
There is need for a reporting system which marks the progress of OPT's various
activities.
54.       Separate accounts are maintained for the postal/financial and the
telecommunications services and the system follows the French Plan Comptable.
Accounting is presently scattered among three departments but is being reorga-
nized. Two financial experts, funded by an advance under the PPF and by BEPTOM
(Bureau des Etudes des Postes et Telecommunications d'Outre-Mer (France)) have
started in August 1981 to assist in strengthening the financial management and
the accounting.
55.       An independent external accounting firm performs the annual audits.
Due mainly to delays in closing the accounts, the audits are perennially late.
The auditor has been unable to certify the accounts and has repeatedly recom-
mended actions to remedy the situation. OPT is now taking systematic action
on the various recommendations in the 1979 audit report. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that OPT would provide IDA with an audited report
within nine months after the end of 1981, and within six months for 1982
accounts and thereafter. Reporting to IDA of unaudited accounts within four
months of the end of the fiscal year will be required (PA Section 4.02).
Benefits and Risks
56.       Most segments of Malian society will feel, directly or indiretly,
the benefits of the OPT 1981-85 investment program, since its completion
will contibute to greater efficiency in business, transport management,
government administration, as well as in programs for rural development,
and health and educational services.



- 20 -
57.       In the principal urban areas, the telephone density would have
increased to 0.59 connections per 100 inhabitants at the end of 1985, up from
the figure of 0.47 at the end of 1980. In other areas, mainly rural, the
increase would be from 0.01 connections per 100 inhabitants to 0.04. The
expected flow of benefits is acceptable, but tariff measures will be con-
sidered that can in the future guide the flow of benefits better than at
present. These measures will follow the tariff review previously mentioned
(para. 51). The internal financial rate of return on the telecommunications
project and ongoing works is 15 percent. This rate of return does not take
into consideration a major portion of the indirect and external benefits
accruing to non-users of the service nor does it include consumer surplus
which is attributable to telephone users. Using a minimum estimate of
consumer surplus based on the assumption that old and new subscribers would
be willing to pay the same amount in real terms for service in future years
as present clients are paying, the quantifiable economic rate of return is
25 percent.
58.       In principle, the implementation of the second telecommunications
project faces the same risks for delay as that of the first telecommunications
project and other IDA financed projects in Mali. Specific measures have been
envisaged, however, aiming at efficient project execution. Some of these
measures specifically addressed problems of management and financial operations
experienced in the first project and were met satisfactorily as conditions of
negotiations for the proposed project (paras. 43-45, 50). Others are included
in the project design and were confirmed during negotiations (Annex III).
Performance indicators were also discussed during negotiations for clear
agreement on technical implementation and management performance targets.
Project supervision will allow frequent verification of adherence to agreed
performance indicators and execution schedules and to technical assistance
commitments and credit conditions. With these safeguards, it is believed that
the risk for delays would be acceptable. In addition, the proposed project
comprises a large number of relatively independent activities, and a delay in
completion of some works would not normally prevent the use of other newly
created assets.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the Office des Postes et Telecommunications and the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be (i) signing of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and OPT (para. 39); and (ii) fulfillment
of all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the CCCE loan
(para. 38).



- 21 -
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
December 8, 1981



-22-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MALI  R=   INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEfAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            240. 0                                     HOST RECENT            WV IMNCIE            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     320.5                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      50.0        70.0      140.0                 238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          14.9        21.2       29.7                 70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL SIATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      4224.0      5362.0    6750.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    11.0         14.9       19.3                  17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           12.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            35.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            3.4         4.3        5.4                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         13.3        16.9       20.5                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             43.7        44.7      45.3                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             53.7        52.6      52.0                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       2.6         2.7        2.7                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.1         2.4        2.6                  2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                  5.2         5.4        5.5                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         49.8        49.1       49.4                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         26.5        23.6       21.5                 19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.3         3.2        3.3                  3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             103.0       100.0      85.0                  89.3                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       86.0        94.0      90.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              56.0        59.0       57.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           15.0        16.0       15.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MHRTALITY RATE         41.0        34.7       31.3                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2        40.4      43.0                  45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..       9.0                  23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                   '         29.0      42.0                  55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                   ..          ..        3.0                 18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         8.0         ..                 26.2
URBAN                                   ..        63.0         ..                 63.5
RURAL                                   ..          ..         ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             67047.6     44314.0   25145.7               31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         4982.07c.d  4124.6   3232.4                 3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1472.0/c e  1480.0/e  1818.6                1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                                302.: e77   1310.8    617.1                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                               2849. Ofc,   1604.7        ..               1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..          ..        4.8
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL



-23-                                   ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 10.0        24.0      28.0                  56.4                   73.7
MALE                 14.0        31.0      36.0                 70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                6.0        17.0      20.0                 50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  1.0         5.0       9.0                  10.0                   16.2
MALE                  1.0         8.0      13.0                 13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                0.3         2.0       5.0                  6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY) 15.0/f       10.0       9.0/                 8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           45.0        40.0      43.0                 46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                         14.0        15.0        ..                  25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        3.0/c        *-      10.0/S                25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         1.6       2.1                   2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9        11.2      13.2                  32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                   1.9                    8.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.2         0.5       0.5                   2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0          ..        ..                   1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2431.3      2964.8   3604.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.6        47.4      47.2                 34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             94.0        91.0      88.4                  80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.7         4.1       4.9                  8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               57.6        55.3      53.4                  41.7                   37.2
MALE                                60.6        58.6      56.9                  54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                              54.5        52.0      50.0                  29.2                   27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9       0.9                   1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      98.0                136.0                   381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      60.0                 84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      61.0                  99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      37.0                  61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      27.0                  39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      48.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifor.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Goverusent Personnel;  /e Government hospital establishments;  /f Not including private
vocational schools; /A 1975.
May, 1981



-24-    .                                                  ~~ANNE  I
PRue 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL !I5DICArORO
Note.:  Although the date era doe  too    --. aurs   ...t1y judged the.os  auhrtt-                       sd teliabl, it should also ha noted sthat they say to  hn iater-
n   ationlly cosPetble ba..uu.. of the lent, of ened-rdieed definitions end tne                used by different cut iesi  collecting  the dec..  The detessa                  oe
theles..s,. usful    d.. decihe orders of  ugnituda, indicate  trende. end thecec. rig cetain eujon differa...e. betannonrig
The reference groupeere  (1) oh. sas country group of tha subjett country and (2) u counry group sith ooa.enha   higher e..e. I..Inuc    then the  oaygrasp
of the subject coun try (anoapt for "Capitel Surplus Oiitp                   ..nr' .rop shore nMiddl. tesm   Nltrnh Africa end Kiddie teen' is chosen be.e.ee of etrtgr
sioutuneffOinites).  1n the referent  grou.p dene the  -eSege  era populotio sighted aninteeti  ase  for each lodisno                        .ed ehn  only nbeo
seriny of the cou..trine In A group hoe date for thot 1ndicunor.  Sinu  the  -oeoag  of contie    on  the indicator  depode on the sneilohility of dnts
and i  cutucifrm,  autin sut ho ener-led it rel.ignn   AV-rge of ann idicator so anther.  Thos.s.                 rg.    era onlY ...nful in comParing the roue of
on nicenor at Ati       ag the country end refnre.c. groups.
fLANt AREA (tesu    qO.                                                                                 o aio    e   ortol sad - total  cohn, sod rural - ynpuitiot (total,
Total - Total surface area c-eprisieg   od ar-7 n  iclan,:d onats.~ ura    n  rural) dividdbytirrpoin  tuhrcdhsitlbd
Agoi-ult-ral - Eteiute of agriculture) are  use  te_ caily orpormently                                 eratllhie is public uod prirats geesr.  so .d spec1isend hospital sodr-
for cr. sa.patre,aerbot and kitchac 5acdeo  -c to lie  fa11on; 1970 data.                            hbilitatico  catr . Supotalsaross-blishaects pe -anety staffed
by at  -eston  phsii.ttabliabheot  providiog prinoipoily ..usto-
GRIP Pft CooPITA (UnS) - Iffy per on pits estimetso at correct erkas pric..., ..e-                       dlacnar   o  inlded.  Octal hospitals.  hsvr ncuehat
cisnatd by        1 ea . overico sathud as crIld Sank Atlas (1977-79 basie); l9t0,                     sod sdi-aIcner IntpsrAtlty staffed by a physicino  (but by A
1575, aod 1979 data.                                                                                    sdical aesist-n, tunas, sidoife,  or .1 thOo  off.so to-Pe c  echo--
datic  ond provide A l5ineid range of adical facilitie.  Fr s_ais
fOEIlY CtONSUMPTION PMg CAP1TA - A_u-Ioosnpic   f coocial energy (oo                                    otal preourbas hosp"ital  include WHOe princepal/gaerh   osio
and lignte,   Ps.r.I.-, nnorl1 gsa sod hydro-, nuclear aod geutherua  also-                            so    -1ru    oeil loca  or rura  hoaplnals and edtalsd                  ssrob`Mi,ty1
oIcI tcy) in kilugras of coa  equivalent per -spica; 1900)  1907)  end 1979                            ranters.  tpecislI=     hoaptsl           L. ildsd only oodar notul.
dote.                                                                                                 pdi aiugor Senisa  tBad - Tota  nubr of  dmisai... to or di-oh-rga
frue hospitlsl duvtd7d by  hbs  ,tub- at bed.
POPoLrATIunMO fNDVCAL STATISTICS
Tons)  ocaoc.Kid-Ysor fthooso..ds) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod 1979                           SOUSING
daa                                                                                               A..r...  ..ss of tosbod  .oer.... par .h ...hldl -tns. oa._ sod rurs1 -
lbso Ocoolatilc (rP,usnt of to.tal) - Raiu of urban to cutol ocouleion;                                A houshold cnits of    group of itdintdsul  nho ehece~ liin    qutosA
difr tdfiiio    fura  urossytaffect v-Par..hilicy of dote                                            end their asic  oa.le.  A hoarder or Iudgsr my or may no  be. includd io
et   oc .is;1h, 1970, end 197  data                                                        theh    Iooi   o    ntieiaprpss
...onlaico Pois-tiu..voe   sh                                                                                        frrospe   ns   oa.  urban. and  -srl - Average  -,
Pnpclattoiver2)    G-:lcao. uplcinp-u)-cico   err hose.d cc 1980                                     b.he  of parsons- per roo .itall urban, and rurlccpied c-naunone
total pop.lanioo. by ags sod -s ad theco sortalny and fertility   ge.d,los   epciey                                               eldg   aniuds .        -ar   e t.--utnn   Aad
Proetu    assnr     rsreityratscmreofthro. leon..asece-.u..cpiAd parts.
tn   et  secoc t Itbir_th'increuig..        cur'  psr ospiot isoos                      Access to  l-otricity (rpercen of dNnllio-) -~total, urban, sod rurl -
Isnel. and I sa   ids,   soyecton.y  tnabilisiag at 77.5 y-ur.  Ths peon-                         C.....ntr_l deIIng.  sieb glsrn toir  is lini     qrtora as p...r.ntags
ester   o     etilItyrcatals  hovs those leel-s1             in  declios Ln                       of octal, chen, and rura  dmnllingeeep-tiivly.
ferotintytr  . acodinghnotocneleelan  potifetily  plao..In  perfoomance.
uch ounyis  heasIgne   .o  of .thes  nic  coA binstioe  of artaliny                           EDUCATION
sod fortiliny oreeds foprojcio           .oros. L                                               Adjusted Enrol11nt Rtut
OrsoicuaroooonlsniccIoastooionry  ppulnl           chr us oevth str                       Pi.o.coo.            tsl sal  and fenaleIoottl   aeedfnl
the   irtratece  qua  cc the death rsre, end      . alorngsrcua-nolst of all ages at the prmylel as  pecnae  of.repnIIIe
asios constant.  This is achieved only srt"orfetilltp  rates decine no                               priesry echool-Seepplain;toelyiolds  hlrn  ed0LI
cho reyaceac  lece o,1 f cIt tt  s            -orioo   st, 1h-r -,ch georaron                            %b0 bu  Adlustad for different lengths of primary edustio; for
uf some  replacs Orsei  nescri.  The eauloner  popultio sise one                     cotra   nIt,u1        ros  edo     1ineso        -o  asy eaceed 100 psocet
sitOmord en tho bosis of ths Projected oh--onrtsios ef the popeltion                               sioaustuisor e                       orhon  Ithe official sohool age.
in thn yasor 1000, and chs cats of Idcino of fertility  rats to relos                              non yecol- toal  male sod f-sal   - Corsted as shon; socoodary
ac   leve,                                                                                           education reqoirs en least Poor years of oppred prmar,y insItructio;
Yea  pta .ies         . ccloion is ce.c bed - The year ob.n stettosoy rooetnprraitdss gersal  .. tcaisal,ccteacher  -raisig intrct . f. sOppib
sits has b...rsachsd.                                                                                usel   f12 no 17 ytsas o at  g; oorreapoedog ... ur.ans era gansouly
,.r.J tio   "Ise lyn                                                                                     s tded.
Par so. A. - Kid-,.rr popu.lat.o per aqo-ro kiluator (110 hscalls..) of                              Poaielarlmaot (osoo  o   sssav   -    atiotal in-ointirta
t       6ere;10)190ad199dais                                                                inlde tehia,idustril  oon                      prgraa  ahichsprt  indnpeed-
Par so. ko. sariclcuralan   - Copoud os shor  for agriculnora1 land                                    -ely or a  department  of asescisryissitutions.
only; 1960. 1970 and 1970 dons.                                                                    :ci-e:enrtn-ormr.sd  sadr    Tonal studeno  en1o1d it
Prou!ltcice Ao  Struture (osrect) - Children  (D-lu  y-sr) , enrkito-see  (15-                           P.iay cod   aaeod.ry  as            I divdd  by onbhor  ofteachers in the
64, years), an  ritired  (65 ytsrs and ove) as parooosgee of etA-year rp.,-                            corsodiglvl. II                     i...Adt   (1I   Id.d-t)
lco;10,1970, sod 1979 doco.                                                                  Adl  ieac   aeferec      isrtaun    fbet   ee   n    ie
On   ltiot Orth Rate (r  ..ot -191 tti - Anc-  gDronch ratss of total aid-                            tep-rretege  ef tonal adult                    jplti oad 13 osare sod ever.
year populations fcc15-0  196070  ed 1970-79.
Poru.istior-loco   Rsts (prcrcg ) _ coben - Acoucal gruoh rates of cohe  pcro-                    CONSUMtPTIONf
lacions fur1950-90, 1960-70,  n  1970-79.                                                           aene   as(o  obuanro ltis -Peenrrrscsismnr
boAt Sioth Rsto (pr thousand) 'a- nua  live bioche per othousd of aid-year                             oar  age.rig.iee   th"r eiht porsons;  nlndea aebulscee, hearses  and
Popluio; 1960, 1970, and 1079 dora.                                                                  eilittryv-hicis..
Crde leah Oats (car thou...od) - Annual dssihe pe   hc d    fs-erOdo OcI.. rsfre   tnand  -prulni-s   - Ill type  of rac... c   fo11r radi
npuPlatico; 1960, 1970, ond 1979 dan.                                                                bread..sts no general pubIie pe  thousand of popstiss; secludes a-
GIroes taood.ctcio  Rtato- A-eraes .uber of dauShtrerso    -e  nuill hear in                           lirstend  ...niv... In, cnrigad in peaars nhe  regi-etiood     of rudt.
hs    __cur ap-roducrilr  period tf she enperusoces Pcra          ag-seicfr-                         sets  -ae i  effact; data for oean years may ne  be topacable gine
tility re....ue.II fiv-yer   averages ending in 19h0, 19g700,and1i979.'                               ato counries abolished l-iosi.
realy  lesita- Acarore  Auos  (thousaode   - Aocual tuahr of scoepuosIariea.r huadto.sin   - TVresvsfo  bodat.t
of _rn-otrcl dnvcs  cod-oc aspilcas of .a.oto ..  afelly plotting  pr0gr...                    generalpblic Par Ithoseand ppaal               eludes usisedTVreira
Osmile Fleericalseoreto  taried  -oan   - Osrngas  of sarroed                                          icontIesIsd in year  nos.. eareio                   f TV sane  -o  in  Wffll.
oca   f child-hearing sor (15-Ad4 yeare) nhc os  birth-cotrol dsoi.as.                         Peessa Ciounin  (oar ntheeao  soulatict) - Sh-n  th   AVe-sgecir-
elIsariad cona  in  . sees nSI guP,                                                               culunic     f 'diy   enrlitare    eaae,dfedsp oia
publicaion denoted Primarily  no r_esdi.g general enn    It is cossidered
FlO)OD AND  coIuTIO                                                                                      to he  '-daiy" if is appears et leas.t f-nr cites. a aas.
teAse of food Produc'ico oar C-pl- (199-71-190) -lden of per c-pito  cta                            Close  Ausesl Attendanc        r Coire ear Tent - Sue  on the esbor If
productIon of all fcci oc-d1ins.  Pruduction suldt   ed. sod   sd soticots  -ild during  the Psar, inclding addeLoson   to driv-is nis-a
ig on uledar ytsr basis.  Cosaditios cover prisry; goode (e.g.suAgrtut                               and abil   -itin..
inersado  suar,hio  are edible srd  -ctl   uret               s  (e.g.  ff.s and
Oc  atoerl of clorr   or _so of r ..uiraunets)  -_ C9u9aroe             ssd fI-.  force  an-ueployed but soldeng  htsin                                     ndente, etc...
ccsrIgyoquivaoe   of ne  foo1d epplieoav-ilable  in cucotry per -apics                             cusrieg poy.pa.ti c.   f all ness.  Osfioltist  in  oiu  contis  r
ce   a.  Irlaa  supisv rino doaestlc  production, iaports less                               tot cparbls; 16,1970 sod 19y9 dots.
ouporcs, ed  h.o,.. in stok.  Nst surplieon-ludo  Aanimal feed,                                 ?-I. Pal  (carc...ol - Psssls labor for-  as peacnnage of tuna) lahot force.
.u.ttsaed to food Procs..sltg. and   eers  in L  distribution. Raquiro-                  Aiocus(parosot) - Labor force is forming, foreeny, Wtanin  and
nstosoainarsdby PAl baso.d cc physiological roads for noma  ucti-                          fishing sa pcr-otege of otutl labor force; 19ni. 1970  and 1979 dana.
olyen   osn   conchdsrinsavrnog                  oneoue  body osights, ago                                'Pueorfcrc t  - Leoofoc   inmnn,  osrrno.eefar-eI.g
and ... dieoruturlo   of popultion, sod           -ilnlo   10 psors-  foroene                      ndsotiity,  "nteranganaprsugofnsilhroce190
hou...bhld 1oo-   1961-65, 1970, and 1977 docs.                                                    1970 and 1979 data.
Por capita  -pply of Erootni  (grees per day) - Prote.In  -ct-c  of pR.  capita                    Priccto  Oatsl feretl-tta.                     .. and fsa1e-Pustioipation  ro
con  uppy o  fod pr day,  non supply of food is drfioe    ssoe   i-errr   acsaecsud                                          as tonalsals, ed fesl  labor forans
qu asot   u   ll c       -nrsesnbliebed hy coil pro-ida for siiupretge   frtu,sl  -'d fmle population of all uses rrPApnctety;
ollonsus cc hoorane  f totalpo:tri  par day end 20 gret  ofaimal and                     19b0. 1970. ad 0979 dan.  Tes   arc .ose  on XLO'. p-riipenin rte
pulse prnecn, ofasih10ies  hud ho atOna  prote.  Thes  stand-                                      rafl-ctioag  g.-... strutur  of the popnlntut. and long time trend.A
s-ds ore lor thc  thss ofg 75 Eras  of nucIII proric nd 23Thgras of                                fewniae  art from  estlo_l soI r
anima  proein  n orarnags for thc cl1d, propose d by  A  in che Third                     Doonmic           ...eec  tenie  - Rtai  of Ippltion unde  15 and 65 ted over
Ocrid food S-rvy; 1961-65, 1970 ond 1977 done.                                                     inte     brallhr Poirt
Per oclap    rtini       rlyfo  animal1-    nodou2 s-ro%;         suply of  re.d de-
riedfosuiml  soaussO   rs   a   a;19  61-5  170 ad 1977 dens.                        INO   DISTILOBUTIo
Chl      =tss1A)Mrait, Rter   (par thousand) - A--uI d-aha p50  hbo-cd Or                  Parog.no. o..f Privane Icoos  (both in ceab sod bled) - Rac-ivd by riches
ASa guc1-4 years, so rhild... In this ags Sr0cc; for sutdeveloping co-                               5 poen, rcet20 parr...n, poorest 20 porcent, sod Paornc 60 percent
coosOrs dnrined fr.. lifs tsblrg ; 1900, 1970 tod 1979 dare,                                     ofp hoehle
oidLTH                                                                                               POVERgY TARGE  GROUPS
Life11It,q l       trvuorn   lo,th (maca) - A-etago ocelo  of yroe of lif 5 osainlg                  The folb1ning  eseaesaeror  appruoimat  mue                     f poverty levels,
athth 9600. 1970 aed 1979 dst.                                                                 sdsol   einrrtdnc   oedrbecuin
efac ~ttfocalico  ut.t Oror thceand) - A-1ua  d.rhtb  of ifanne coder .0. year                       tEtisath.d Abecun icvsrtvIcm    ee 0000i  mrbl    -tji-s      oe                ua
Acreagc Oaf ecca  (ocrern o  occu tnlcu-  "otu. rb-c sodrural  N-                              eutrlitonally adequate diet pnl esnta  to-odrqirseo    is  -to
boo of prcpln  (total, uran  on      iua)rth rsaaonebl.   ....s no safe.
caa Xuply  (IncuO       osne   su rf_v  caters c        II ureted hot Ioconatnetd                 nfE..   be
y                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tsimentd Relotirn Pve-vtmu   Irvel1 ff5  ref cacits) - rcbh   end rurl1
caeree b os  hat fr.. poocecred borebolso,  poringe. sr  seitray nlsa.ORs)1 relortv   povorry  mue  irv    is  _no-hird of orerags per r pits
pec hnego   thirespecti-o  porulotio-s      l  an cobo  re   a Pubi                         -ssou   moo   of rb  country.  Orhec irve  is dsri-ad true charcoal
Ocoan  r   -anye  lostednosueca20 -srers f.romsbnem   hr                                   psvelcihdue            rfn hihr testrf lvn   inubeaes
ocsuerdn  ala  ubi  rssnsi  ocosofchrhcsn    I   urltceeteiaed                     _rua   _o colo   Abolt    Aoer   cte    os   ar.sn(-  r
fanily' o canor yeodeb
Arc....  turealipoI (.oet ofth cato h                -If  ton  urbac, an  raratipllt -
umrofP.oi .1(totl  urbn,an  rra) Asoved by  -roota dipsia
Psousecagee of thnlirepcIe oplioe   ferrets disposal ma-y include
Andten .ter by nnr-          yrs pts  or the use of pit privlsa end gimiv                                                              E     oocomic so    cre   at   lcs
"Pocliu  Ie Obrlycno  - Pupotico divided by nosbe  of prs-iciog  ohrei-
ongqaIIdfros a sodic-I school at univerity  In..e.
cuolncrNring Pere'  .   Popu..aniuc. divided hry comber of procticOog
soe  rAfsol  0radutn curses. p--ccice  nurs, an.   ens.. i-t-n  nurse.



- 25-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2, constant prices)
US$ Min.          %                             1960-67      1967-74      1974-80       1980
GNP    Market Prices                 1,416.9        100.0                               3.5          1.8          6.8        -1.2
Gross Domestic Investment              210.8         14.9                               6 1        -2.1I/         8.71/      -3.71/
Current Account Balance               -261.5        -18.5                            -1:           -.           -1 87          -
Gross National Saving  -16.8   -1.2                             -~~~~~~~~~~~15';5-1/  -6. ~  1.
Exports of Goods, NFS                  268.3        -18.9                              12.0          2.8        11.6         25.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                  529.8         37.4                              13.7     ,   4.9          6.2          9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added                        Labor Force 4/                 V.A. Per Worker
US$ Min.           %                  Mi.          %                    USS $
Agriculture                          588.2            41.9                 3.28         88.4                  179      47.2
Industry                             145.5            10.4                 0.18          4.9                  808    213.2
Services                             672.0            47.8                 0.25          6.7                2,688    709.2
Total/average 3/           1,406.1            100.0                3.71        100.0                   379    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE-/
General Government                 Central Government
(MF Bln.)            % of GDP        (MF Bln.)        % of GDP
1980            1980   1977-79       1980       1980    1977-79
Current Receipts                       97.9            16.5       14.0        5974   10.0         11.6
Current Expenditures                  114.0G-          19.2       15.1        80.9-!   13.6       13.3
Current Surplus                        16.1            -2.7       -1.1       -21 .5     -3.6      -1.7
Capital Expenditures                    2.5-4/          0.4        0.8         2.5-/    0.4        0.8
External Assistance (net)              73.4            12.4       15.0        14.2       2.4       1.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES-/           1977               1978          1979           1980           1980         1981
____                -             -                           March        March
(Billion MF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                83.6              103.0        120.2            125.6         132.3         131.0
Bank Credit to Government            94.4              96.8         101.8             99.4        101.9         101.0
Bank Credit to Economy              107.2             131.6         152.2            164.0         162.3        174.2
(of which State Enterprises)    (64.4)              (71.9)        (89.2)         (104.6)        (86.1)       (114.5)
Money and Quasi Money as % GDP9/   21 1                24.3           22.9            21.1
General Price Index (1977=100)-/ 100.0                109.7         122.4           140.4
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   7.7               9.7           11.6           14.7
Bank Credit to Government            31.1               2.5           5.2            -2.4
,ank Credit to Economy              -12.5              22.8          15.7              7.8
of which State Enterprises)    (-25.1)              (11.6)        (24.1)           (17.3)
Note:   All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/      Net factor income is not available in constant prices;  therefore these growth rates are for gross
domestic savings.  Not available indicated by ".."  not applicable, by
2/      A negative sign indicates a growing current account deficit.
3/      Figures may not sum to totals because of rounding.
4/      Preliminary estimates subject to revision.
5/      Percent of country average.
6/      1980 figures not strictly comparable to those for 1977-79; 1979 is provisional.
7/      Includes 4.0 for accrued but unpaid expenditures and net unallocated expenditures
8/      From International Financial Statistics.
9/      Based on year-end levels, not monthly averages
10/      GDP deflator.
November 25, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEXl
Page 5
TRADE PAYnISTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, FOB (AVERAGE 1978-80)
1978               1979                1980                                                us$ Mln.   %
(Millions U5$)
Exports of goods, NFS                         144.5              193.0               268.3              Cotten and products                79.3    51.4
Imports of goods, NFS                        339.5               434.1               529.8              Livestock and products             43.5    28.2
Resource gap (deficit - -)                  -195.0              -241.1              -261.5              Groundnuts and products             8.1      5.2
Fish (dried and smoked)             2.1      1.4
Factor Payments (net)                         -10.9              -11.8               -14.4              All other commodities              21.4    13.9
Private Transfers (net)                        37.1                32.2               35.0                  Total                         154.4   100.0
Balance on Current Accounc                   -168.8             -220.7              -240.9
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980-/
Government Transfer (net)                     103.9              106.7               108.3                                                    US$ Mln.
MLT Capital (net)!/
Receipts                                       71.7               91.9               124.2                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    8526 6/
(of which public debt)                     (68.7)              (75.0)              (84.8)                 of which disbursed)              (621.1)-/
Payments                                     -19.3               -16.2               -18.6
(of which public debt)                     (8.7)                (8.8)              (11.1)
Subtotal                                    52.4                75.7               105.6              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1980 8
Other items, D_i.e.                            -8.7                 1.9              -13.8
Increase in Reserves (+)                      -21.2              -36.4               -40.8
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            4.1
Gross Reserves (end yea  3/                     8.5                 8.8               15.3              IBRDIIDA LENDING, AUGUST 31, 1981 (Million US$):
Net Reserve (end year)                       -229.4             -258.5              -248.9
IBRD           IDA
Imports of petroleum                           43.7               55.5                82.8
Imports of foodstuffs-'                        52.3               47.9                78.8              Outstanding & Disbursed          0.0          130.0
Undisbursed                     0.0            69.8
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 0.0             199.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE
uS$ 1.00  -  MF:                          451.27              425.45              422.60
MF  100   -  US$:                            0.22               0.24                0.24
(As of August, 1981:  us$ 1.00 - MF 598.15
MF  100  - us$  0.17)
NOTE:  Not available indicated by ".." and not applicable by
1/  Trade data from World Bank; factor payments, transfers, and capital flows from various IMF sources.
2/ Includes investment and borrowing.
3/  Converted at end of period exchange rates.
4/ Net foreign assets of banking system; differences between years do not necessarily correspond to changes in reserves.
in part because different exchange rates may be used.
5/  Includes food aid.
6/ Medium and long-term.
7/ Includes US$ 141.2 million in arrears on principal and interest.
8/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
November 25, 1981



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at October 31, 1981
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                   Amount
Number     Year       Purpose                         IDA     Undisbursed
-----US$ million----
Ten  Credits fully disbursed                         61.6
383-1-MLI  1975   Second Highway                      8.3 /1       1.04
538-MLI    1975   Livestock                          13.3          2.94
599-MLI    1976   Third Highway                      10.0          0.92
669-MLI    1977   Mali-Sud Agricultural              15.5          3.89
713-MLI    1977   Railway III                        10.5          4.15
733-MLI    1978   Education II                       10.0          3.87
753-MLI    1978   Mopti Rice II                      15.0          1.43
854-MLI    1979   Technical Assistance                4.5          0.65
883-MLI    1979   Forestry                            4.5          3.10
943-MLI    1979   Urban Development                  12.0          9.43
986-MLI    1980   Industrial Sector Development    8.0             7.30
173.2        38.72
of which has been repaid           0.6
Total now held by IDA*                              172.6
Total undisbursed                                                 38.72
Amount SDR   Undisbursed
--------million---------
1104-MLI   1981   Road Maintenance                   13.4         13.4 /2
1134-MLI   1981   Petroleum Exploration Promotion  3.1             3.1 /3
1174-MLI   1982   ODIPAC Technical Assistance         5.5          5.5 /4
Total     22.0         22.0
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
/1   Supplementary Credit to Credit 383-MLI.
/2   The Credit became effective September 10, 1981.
_3   The Credit became effective October 29, 1981.
/4   The Credit was approved July 28, 1981 and is not yet signed.



- 28                           ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment as at October 31, 1981
Loan                                                   Amount
Number      Year      Borrower            Purpose       of Loan       Undisbursed
------US$ million------
403-MLI    1978       Sada Diallo         Bleach and
Plastic
Products        0.6            0.0
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1981 1/
Credit 383-1-MLI    Second Highway Project.  US$8.3 million Credit of June 12,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 30, 1981.
The Project consisted of (a) reconstruction of the Faladie-Segou
(222 km) and Bamako-Bougouni (160 km) roads; (b) procurement of highway equip-
ment; (c) technical assistance to DPW; (d) preinvestment studies for the
Bamako-Kolokani road; and (e) a study of the trucking industry. Because of
higher bids than estimated at appraisal, USAID could not finance the recon-
struction of the Bamako-Bougouni road and it was excluded from the project.
However, USAID financed the reconstruction of a bridge and the purchase of
road equipment and spare parts. All project components have been completed.
Credit 538-MLI       Livestock Project.  US$13.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of (a) introduction of livestock extension
services and grazing control schemes in three selected areas (b) provision
for animal health services, (c) construction of 50 ponds and 70 wells, (d)
construction of one slaughter house (e) provision for five livestock markets,
(f) development of a pasture trial station (g) implementation of a training
and functional literacy program and (h) preparation of a follow-up project.
Although most components were successfully executed, there was no progress on
the more innovative aspects, i.e. those elements aimed at establishing the
rational use of land and water in the livestock area. Therefore remaining
funds under the Credit have been focussed on financing the necessary research
and pilot schemes, and on strengthening sector institutions, in order to lay a
sound basis for an eventual follow-up project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29                           ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 599-MLI       Third Highway Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1976;
Closing Date: December 30, 1981.
The project comprises (a) improvement of feeder roads; (b) execution
of backlog maintenance of paved roads; (c) procurement of spare parts, and
road and workshop equipment; (d) equipment and supply for the training center;
and (e) technical assistance and consulting services for (i) the training
center; (ii) a transport plan study, and (iii) the updated engineering for the
Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km). Construction of feeder roads and the backlog
maintenance program are behind schedule due to low output of the force account
brigades. Two major problems which plague the project resulted from poor
management of the Equipment Service and insufficient road maintenance funds.
Credit funds allocated for spare parts were increased and technical assistance
added for the Equipment Service. Improved maintenance funding is being
stressed under the recently approved Road Maintenance Project (Cr. 1104-MLI).
Credit 669-MI1       Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of (a) expansion of agricultural production in
the project area: cotton, kenaf, maize and rice; (b) studies; (c) applied
research; (d) development of livestock; and (e) strengthening of public health
services. Project activities are progressing satisfactorily and have been
extended to millet and sorghum. Except for rice, production is beyond apprai-
sal estimates. Village Mutual Guarantee Groups and a blacksmith network are
being developed beyond expectations. Major financial difficulties for the
implementing agency arose in early 1981 as a result of inadequate adjustments
in the cotton price structure by Government; in April, however, the immediate
financial problem was solved by removal of input subsidies borne by the
agency.
Credit 713-MLI       Third Railway Project.  US$10.5 million Credit of
June 10, 1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the bridge rehabilitation and repair program,
the project's main component, was finally set in motion in December 1979.
The remaining small bridges, which had to be excluded from the project as
the bid price exceeded the anticipated cost, will be financed with an
EEC Special Action Credit for US$10 million. Mali Railways (CFM) main
capacity and operational constraint continues to be the low availability of
locomotives. This had thwarted efforts to increase CFM's utilization of
imports from Dakar, where high stocks of Mali-bound products accumulated at
the port awaiting transport to Bamako. The shortage of locomotive power
was worsened by a collision in December 1979, leaving a gap which can only
be filled by augmenting the locomotive fleet. This is envisaged with funds
available under the EEC Special Action Credit.



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 733-MLI       Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
To contain cost overruns caused essentially by construction delays
of about two years, the Government has requested the deletion of the construc-
tion of the National Institute for Management (IPGP), extension facilities for
a Teacher Training College and housing for literacy supervisors. The deletion
is equal to 10.4% of the original project cost estimates. Construction is
completed for all other components except the Livestock Technician Training
Center (EIV) which is expected to be completed by July 1982. The functional
literacy program is proceeding satisfactorily. New curricula are being
launched in nine experimental rural lower secondary schools. New programs for
the Agricultural Training Centers and for the EIV are being prepared by a team
of three technical assistants working in collaboration with Malian teams.
Training of teachers and preparation of new programs for IPGP is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit 753-MLI       Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977; Effective Date: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The project consists of construction of new polders (8,000 ha) and
consolidation and improvement of existing polders (26,200 ha) for rice culti-
vation under controlled flooding. Main components are civil works; deep
ploughing; building; farm machinery and civil works maintenance; agricultural
credit; applied agricultural research; technical assistance for ORM and adult
literacy program. The project also provides assistance to the Study Bureau of
the Genie Rural. In general, the physical progress is satisfactory, despite
some delays in earthmoving works, deep ploughing, buildings, and hydraulic
structure implementation.
Credit 854-MLI       Office du Niger - Technical Assistance/Engineering
Project. US$4.5 million Credit of October 30,
1978; Effective Date: January 31, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project was designed to prepare (a) an infrastructure rehabilita-
tion program, (b) a pilot program of on-farm works (1,500 ha), and (c) urgent
spot repairs of the irrigation infrastructure. The technical assistance
project consists of (1) engineering services to prepare plans required for the
appraisal of an infrastructure rehabilitation program, (2) training of irriga-
tion construction personnel, (3) audit, (4) livestock studies, (5) research
and (6) a socio-economic study of the settler population. Except for the
Kogoni rice research station equipment, all project components are underway
and proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Due to initial problems, the project
has fallen behind schedule, but some delays can be made up within the remaining
months of the project.



-31-                            ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 883-MLI       Forestry Project.  US$4.5 million Credit of May 25,
1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A five year program to increase fuelwood and building pole supplies
would establish 3,400 ha of industrial rainfed tree plantations near Bamako
and on a trial basis, 60 ha of rainfed and 70 ha of partially irrigated
plantations near Mopti; apply modern forest management techniques on 1,200 ha
of natural forest; establish three rural forestry nurseries and rehabilitate a
fourth, and carry out studies of more efficient wood use and ways to involve
local population in rural forest activities. Technical experts' services
would supplement the staff of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development to assist with the implementation of the forestry program. The
project has started satisfactorily, but a problem has recently developed with
respect to availability of Government counterpart funds.
Credit 943-MLI       Urban Development Project.  US$12.0 million Credit of
November 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will assist Government in providing affordable urban
services to low income urban residents. For the capital city of Bamako, the
project provides shelter, services and related community facilities for about
44,000 low income residents; improves health and sanitary conditions; and
carries out an investment study. In addition, new institutions will be
created and outside expertise utilized to strengthen and develop the urban
setor.  Market facilities and financial assistance for the informal sector and
promotion of local building materials would aid local entrepreneurs.   The
secondary centers of Mopti, Kayes and Gao will receive essential water and
sanitation services. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 986-MLI       Industrial Sector Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of May 23, 1980. Effective Date: September 26,
1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of support to the private industrial and
traditional sector, including a US$3.5 million line of credit and a comprehen-
sive institution building program; and the rehabilitation and expansion of
Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB), Mali's sole producer of pasteurized milk
products. All components have been initiated satisfactorily except the ULB
expansion program which has been delayed primarily because of ULB financing
constraints.
Credit 1104-MLI      Road Maintenance Project.  SDR 13.4 million Credit of
March 11, 1981. Effective Date: September 10, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This Credit has just become effective. The project consists of
urgently needed maintenance on 6,600 km of roads and periodic maintenance
works on 900 km of roads. It includes strengthening of the Equipment
Service and Training Center of the Ministry of Transport and Public Works and
assistance to the Ministry in setting up a transport data collection unit. A
program of vehicle axle-load control would be initiated under the project.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 1134-MLI    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, SDR 3.1 million
Credit of April 29, 1981. Effective Date: October 29, 1981
(anticipated). Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This Credit is not yet effective. The project would provide
technical assistance to help monitor ongoing exploration by oil companies
and interpret the results of this exploration. Experts would be engaged
to investigate known oil shale deposits, and to help elaborate a national
energy policy.



- 33 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification Missions: 1978-79
(b) Appraisal Mission: January-February 1981
(c) Date of completion of negotiations: November 1981
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: April 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and OPT (para. 39); and
(ii) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement of the CCCE loan (para. 38);
B.   Other conditions
(i)  OPT will deposit its telecommunications receipts in commercial
bank accounts from which it will meet its budgetary obligations
(para. 44).
(ii) The Government will cover any future deficit of the OPT
Postal/Financial Department (para. 46);
(iii)  By June 30, 1982, OPT would propose to IDA a method for
revaluation of its fixed assets, for the purpose of calculating
the rate of return; OPT would review the value of its fixed
assets annually beginning with the 1982 accounts (para. 47);
(iv) A 12 percent rate of return on OPT's telecommunications
revalued net fixed assets in operation will be achieved
annually (para. 47);
(v)  The Government will take appropriate action to ensure that
government departments and agencies pay their bills to OPT
on a current basis (paras. 48 and 50);



- 34 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2
(vi)  by March 31, 1983 OPT will furnish a comprehensive collection
plan to IDA for comments and will implement such plan by June
30, 1983 (para. 50);
(vii)  OPT will complete a study on its tariff structure by
December 31, 1982; the results and the implementation
implications of this study will be reviewed with IDA
not later than June 30, 1983 (para. 51); and
(viii)  OPT will forward unaudited accounts within four months after
the end of the year and the audited report within six months,
except for 1981 for which the audited report will be submitted
within nine months (para. 55).



IBRD 15780
MAtAI 
OFFICE~ DES POSTES
ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                                                      NN
:DU MALI:(PrTM)                                                                                                I G I A
46 W40    ml-tm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
f-y C.-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~
_  _ _-     _ _-_ _-
o    0 7 h6,4- 
-  -   I  10110  ~110~111 .  .                                                                  V   -            
I  N~~~~~~~~~~~~I
6:7~ ~~
~~~~~  N                         y                                   0N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               Nr I
I Q R y  c-    I 



