Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4485-GH  
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement) 
 
(Community Based Rural Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 11, 2008  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4485-GH  
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement) 
AGREEMENT dated July 11, 2008, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
GHANA (
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).   
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated August 13, 2004, between 
 
the Recipient and the Association (“Development Credit Agreement”), the Association 
agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit in an amount equivalent to forty million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,900,000) to assist 
 
in financing the Community Based Rural Development Project described in 
 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;  
(B) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance in support of the Community Based Rural Development Project by 
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing 
to extend such additional assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions  
set forth in this Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend 
and restate the Development Credit Agreement as of the Effective Date of this 
Agreement, to read as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to fifty 
four million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,400,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) which consists of: (a) an Original Credit in 
Page  3
2
various currencies equivalent to forty million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 40,900,000); and (b) an Additional Credit in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,500,000), to assist in financing the project described in  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).   
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Local Government Act, 1993 (Act 462) shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of DAs to perform any of their respective 
obligations under their respective Grant Agreements. 
(b) 
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the DAs or 
for the suspension of their respective operations. 
Page  4
3
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration shall be that any event specified in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement has occurred. 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P.O. Box MB40 
Accra, Ghana 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
 
233-21-667069 
Accra 
    `  233-21-663854 
 6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By /s/ Kwadwo Baah-Wiredu
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/s/ Ishac Diwan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of rural communities to 
enhance their quality of life by improving their productive assets, rural infrastructure and 
access to key support services from private and public sources. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthening of the capacity and skills of MLGRDE, RPCU, DAs, ACs, 
community-based organizations, non-governmental organizations, private and public 
service providers, and rural communities to: (a) deliver cost-effective services to rural 
communities; (b) manage, monitor, evaluate and maintain public and private goods; and 
(c) build functional and governance capacities. 
2. 
Strengthening of the financial and procurement management capacities of 
MLGRDE, DAs and regional and district tender boards, committees, ACs and other 
procuring entities. 
3. 
Strengthening of the capacity of the decentralization secretariat of MLGRDE
 
and 
other relevant public and private entities to implement the decentralization program of the 
Recipient. 
Part B:
Infrastructure for Agricultural Development
Provision of Grants or Advances for, inter alia: 
1. 
Water for agriculture, including small-scale irrigation from stream flow 
diversions, pumping and run-off management, ponds, dugouts and tube wells, earthen 
banks, bunds and other flow controlling structures. 
2. 
Improving skills for management of facilities, including development of basic 
skills of Subproject beneficiaries for the appropriate application of recommended best 
catchment management practices and operation and maintenance of investments in water. 
3. 
Rehabilitation of priority feeder roads, provision of culverts and appropriate 
drainage; and upgrading of farm-to-village tracks and trails to facilitate use of bicycle 
trailers, donkey carts and other light vehicles. 
4. 
Post-harvest and livestock processing infrastructure, including provision of 
storage facilities, drying floors, cribs, crop processing and smoking units, and other 
processing equipment and facilities, and markets. 
Page  7
6
Part C:
Rural Enterprise Development
Provision of Grants or Advances for, inter alia: 
1. 
Training in technical and business management for the acquisition of employable 
skills in rural areas, establishment of agro-based micro enterprises, and upgrading and 
rehabilitation of equipment. 
2. 
Establishment of learning centers to serve as focal points for processing units, 
marketing outlets, and empowering the poor through the acquisition of knowledge and 
skills. 
3. 
Establishment of rural enterprises, including co-operative business activities, 
market research, business linkages and joint ventures. 
 
Part D:
Infrastructure for Social and Human Development
Provision of Grants for, inter alia: 
1. 
Rehabilitation or construction of educational infrastructure for established basic 
schools. 
2. 
Rehabilitation of existing or construction of new health compounds for 
community health planning services. 
3. 
Rehabilitation of existing or construction of new nutritional centers. 
4. 
Provision of potable water and sanitation facilities for rural communities. 
Part E:
Community-based Natural Resource Management
Provision of Grants or Advances for, inter alia: 
1. 
Preparation of natural resources management plans in DAs, ACs and local 
communities in collaboration with relevant public agencies including the Environmental 
Protection Agency, Savanna Resources Management Center, Resource Management 
Support Center, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Ministry of Lands and Forestry and 
the Wildlife Division. 
2. 
Establishment of tree and tree-crop nurseries for the production of seedlings, 
adoption of soil and water conservation measures, control of bush fires, and 
establishment of wood lots. 
3. 
Rehabilitation of critically degraded watershed areas to ensure regular flow of 
water and effective management and use of water resources. 
Page  8
7
4. 
Provision of incentive schemes to natural resource collectors, processors  
and traders, wood carvers, traditional medical practitioners, wildlife traders and breeders 
and rural eco-tourism operators, excluding loggers, to increase income earning capacities 
of Subproject beneficiaries and provide skills to rural unemployed. 
Part F:
Project Management
Provision of technical and financial support to MLGRDE and other implementing 
agencies for the coordination and day-to-day management and monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project. 
 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A.
 
Steering Committee 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times until the completion of the Project, a 
Steering Committee with a composition, mandate and resources satisfactory to 
the Association. 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part A, the  
Steering Committee shall: (a) be responsible for reviewing progress made 
towards ach
ieving the Project’s objectives, facilitating the coordination of Project 
activities among the entities represented in the Steering Committee, and making 
recommendations for removal of any obstacles to the implementation of the 
Project; and (b) meet at least bi-annually. 
3. 
Not later than November 30 of each year, the Steering Committee shall review 
the progress made in respect of Project implementation, institutional issues, 
procurement, disbursements, the involvement of the private sector, the 
achievements of the DAs according to the performance criteria referred to in the 
Project Implementation Manual during the preceding year, and progress towards 
the objectives for the preceding year. 
B. RICU 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project 
national and zonal offices of the RICU, under the auspices of MLGRDE, with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose 
of ensuring the prompt and efficient implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, RICU shall 
act as a single implementation unit for rural infrastructure with primary 
responsibility for coordinating implementation support to the District Assemblies 
and Subproject beneficiaries. RICU shall have broad autonomy in implementing 
the work program agreed upon with the Steering Committee. RICU shall be 
headed by a national coordinator, and shall be supported by zonal office project 
coordinators and relevant technical staff, including financial management, 
procurement and monitoring and evaluation staff, a rural infrastructure engineer 
and an institutions specialist, under terms of reference and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association and appointed in accordance with 
procedures under Section III of this Schedule. 
Page  10
9
3. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, RICU shall: 
 
(a) 
implement technical and institutional strengthening aspects of the 
Project, including ensuring that Project actions and interventions 
complement those of other similar projects in the sector; 
 
(b) 
be responsible for timely reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and 
impact assessments; 
 
(c) 
establish and maintain a management information system to provide  
up-to-date information on the status of implementation of Subprojects in 
the various zones; and 
 
(d) 
provide policy and technical liaison with the Steering Committee.  
C. 
District Assemblies and Area Councils 
The day-to-day administration of public-good Subprojects at the district level 
shall be the responsibility of each DA with technical support from the RPCU  
and zonal RICUs. The relevant District Executive Committees and their 
administrative offices shall be strengthened for purposes of Project 
implementation. Each DA shall prepare an annual work plan following 
guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
D. 
ARB Apex Bank; Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
The day-to-day administration of private-good Subprojects shall be the 
responsibility of the ARB Apex Bank. 
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of private-good Subprojects, the Recipient shall 
make the proceeds of the Financing allocated for Advances and Grants for 
private-good Subprojects available to ARB Apex Bank under a subsidiary 
agreement (“Subsidiary Agreement”) between the Recipient and ARB Apex 
Bank, under terms and conditions approved by the Association.  
3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
E. Project 
Implementation 
Manual 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual 
(provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and 
Page  11
10
procedures of the PIM and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of 
this Agreement shall prevail) and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the PIM, if such 
amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
F. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the ESMF and the RPF and that: (i) all measures for carrying out of 
the ESMF and RPF are taken in a timely manner; and (ii) the Project Reports 
referred to in Part A of Section II of this Schedule include adequate information 
on monitoring the measures defined in the ESMF and RPF. 
2. 
The Recipient shall not amend or waive, or permit to be waived, the ESMF or 
RPF or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion 
 
of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation  
of the Project. 
3. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part F, the 
Recipient shall, prior to commencing work on any community infrastructure and 
prior to any displacement of any Affected Persons from such works:  
(a) 
undertake the acquisition of all necessary land and other property, 
compensation and resettlement for such works in accordance with the 
principles and institutional procedures established in the RPF;  
(b) 
ensure that Affected Persons from such works shall be compensated, 
resettled and rehabilitated in accordance with the RPF;  
(c) 
for community infrastructure upgrading involving resettlement of more 
than 20 persons, prepare and furnish to the Association, a detailed 
resettlement action plan acceptable to the Association documenting the 
implementation arrangements for resettlement arising from such works, 
including compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons; and 
(d) 
complete the implementation of such resettlement action plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  12
11
G. Subprojects 
1. 
General 
The Recipient shall ensure that all Subprojects are appraised, approved and 
monitored and that the Grants and Advances are administered in accordance with 
the eligibility criteria and administration arrangements and procedures set forth 
or referred to in this Part G and in more detail in the Project Implementation 
Manual and the ESMF and RPF. 
2. 
Terms and Conditions of Grants for Public-good Subprojects 
A
public-good Subproject shall be carried out pursuant to a grant agreement to be 
concluded between the Recipient and a DA, under terms and conditions approved 
by the Association and described or referred to in more detail in the PIM, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include the following:  
(a) 
a description of the activities to be implemented, including the outputs 
and performance targets to be achieved, and the arrangements for 
monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the Subproject; 
(b) 
the modalities of transfer of funds to the DA and Subproject beneficiaries 
for the financing of the Subproject; 
(c) 
the obligation of the DA to: (i) carry out or cause the Subproject to be 
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, engineering, environmental and social safeguard, financial, and 
managerial practices, including in accordance with the PIM, RPF and 
ESMF; and (ii) maintain or cause to be maintained adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures relating to the Subproject; 
(d) 
the requirement that the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and in accordance with 
the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, and shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Subproject; and 
(e) 
the right of the Recipient, to: (i) inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, 
plants and construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents; (ii) obtain all information as it, 
or the Association, shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation and financial conditions of Subproject; and (iii) suspend or 
terminate the right of the DA to use the proceeds of the Grant upon 
Page  13
12
failure by the DA to perform any of its obligations under the Grant 
Agreement. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the grant agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Project, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
grant agreement or any provision thereof without prior approval in writing by the 
Association.   
3.
 
Terms and Conditions of Grants and Advances for private-good Subprojects 
(a) 
A private-good Subproject financed through Grants and/or Advances shall 
be carried out pursuant to an advance agreement to be concluded between 
ARB Apex Bank and an eligible financial institution as well as an 
agreement to be concluded between each eligible financial institution and 
the relevant Subproject beneficiary, all under terms and conditions 
approved by the Association and described or referred to in more detail in 
the PIM. 
(b) 
Except as the Association shall agree otherwise, the Recipient shall cause 
ARB Apex Bank to administer all Advances as a revolving line of credit 
facility in accordance with the arrangements and procedures described in 
the PIM, and shall deposit all repayments of the principal amounts of 
Advances and interest accrued thereon, for the purpose of providing 
additional Advances and/or Grants in accordance with the provisions of 
the PIM. 
H. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the  
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the PIM.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of six calendar months, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
Page  14
13
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
 
General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with  
the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advances was made. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after  
the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
The following methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used  
Page  15
14
for goods and works in the circumstances specified in the Procurement  
Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting;  
(d) Force Account; (e) Community Participation procedures which have been 
found acceptable to the Association; and (f) Established Private or Commercial 
Practices which have been found acceptable to the Association. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 b
elow, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be 
used for consultants’ services in the circumstances specified in the Procurement 
Plan: (a) Selection Under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection 
Based on Consultants Qualifications; (d) Established Private or Commercial 
Practices which have been found acceptable to the Association; (e) Selection of 
Individual Consultants; and (f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing, the allocations of the amounts  
of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures  
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  16
15
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Original Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent) 
Amount of the 
Additional Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent) 
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of 
Taxes) 
(1) Civil works 
1,450,000 
0 
100% 
(2) Goods 
1,700,000 
0 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services 
including audits, 
studies and training  
4,650,000 1,500,000 
100% 
(4) Subprojects: 
(a) financed by Grants 
(b) financed by Advances 
 
22,300,000 
7,750,000 
 
11,250,000 
0
100% of amounts 
disbursed 
(5) Operating Costs 
2,850,000 
750,000 
100% 
(6) Unallocated 
200,000 
0 
 
 
TOTAL 
 
40,900,000 
 
13,500,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of the Development Credit 
Agreement, except that withdrawals of amounts of the Original Credit, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,400,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after  
August 1, 2003. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
 
Page  17
16
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
I. Repayment of the Original Credit 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1 and September 1: 
 
Commencing September 1, 2014, to and 
including March 1, 2024. 
1% 
Commencing September 1, 2024, to and 
including March 1, 2044. 
2% 
II. Repayment of the Additional Credit 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1 and September 1: 
 
Commencing September 1, 2018, to and 
including March 1, 2028. 
1% 
Commencing September 1, 2028, to and 
including March 1, 2048. 
2% 
Page  18
17
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“AC” means an Area Council, established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Local Government Act, 1993 (Act 462). 
2. 
“Additional Credit” means the additional financing in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 13,500,000) provided to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth  
or referred to in this Agreement. 
3. 
“Advance” means an amount, out of the proceeds of the Financing, to be on-lent 
by ARB Apex Bank through participating financial institutions to eligible 
community groups, associations and individuals for the purpose of carrying out 
private-good Subprojects.  
4. 
“Affected Persons” means any persons who on account of the acquisition of  
land, including plantation land, for purposes of establishing relocation sites under 
the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; 
or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual 
 
or perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired  
or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work  
or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, 
and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an 
Affected Person. 
5. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
6. 
“ARB Apex Bank” means the Association of Rural Banks established through 
incorporation under the Recipient’s Companies Code, 1963 (Act 179).                                
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
9. 
“DA” means a District Assembly established pursuant to the Recipient’s Local 
Government Act, 1993 (Act 462). 
Page  19
18
10. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
 
the framework of the Recipient dated March 2004, as the said framework may be 
amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence  
of the Association, setting forth  the  policy framework, principles, standards, 
processes and institutional arrangements  to be applied to assess potential adverse 
environmental and social impacts associated with project activities and the ways 
to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset them, including public consultation, 
disclosure and reporting. 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
12. 
“Grant” means an amount, out of the proceeds of the Financing, to be made 
available as a grant to DAs and through the DAs to ACs and other duly 
constituted local community groups for the purpose of carrying out public-good 
Subprojects. 
13. 
“MLGRDE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Local Government, Rural 
Development and Environment.  
14. 
“Operating Costs” means the operating costs incurred on account 
 
of the implementation of the Project including maintenance of vehicles, fuel, 
equipment, office supplies, rental charges, utilities, consumables, bank charges, 
advertising expenses, insurance, travel, per diems, and accommodation, but 
excluding salaries of civil and public servants. 
15. 
“Original Credit” means the original financing in various currencies equivalent to 
forty million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,900,000) 
provided to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised  
in October 2006. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 27, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
18. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual of the Recipient 
containing, inter alia, work programs, training programs, monitoring and 
performance indicators and arrangements and procedures to be used for the 
Page  20
19
purposes of implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, in consultation with, and with the approval of, the Association, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual. 
19. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the framework of the 
Recipient dated March 2004, as the said framework may be amended  
and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence of the 
Association, setting forth resettlement procedures, institutional arrangements, 
eligibility criteria  entitlements and compensation, including valuation 
procedures, budget, public consultation and participation, monitoring and 
evaluation and disclosure. 
20. 
“RICU” means the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit, established under the 
Village Infrastructure Project (Credit No. N020 GH). 
21. 
“RPCU” means a Regional Planning Coordinating Unit established pursuant to 
the Recipient’s National Planning Systems Act, 1993 (Act 488). 
22. 
“Subproject” means a specific public-good or private-good infrastructure 
development activity financed or proposed to be financed through Grants or 
Advances under the Project. 
23. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Recipient 
and ARB Apex Bank pursuant to Section I.D to this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
Section 3.01 (b) of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:   
 
“
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after: (i) the 
date of the Development Credit Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn 
balance of the Original Credit; and (ii) the date of the Financing Agreement 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement) with respect to the 
unwithdrawn balance of the Additional Credit, to the respective dates on which 
amounts are withdrawn by the Recipient from the Financing Account 
 
or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of the  
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rate as may be 
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to this Section. The rate set as of  
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next Payment Date in that  
year. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each 
Payment Date. The Commitment Charge shall be computed on the basis of  
a
360-day year of twelve 30-
day months.”
Page  21
20
 
