Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1029 
Project Name 
Community-Based Rural Development Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P081482 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of Ghana 
Ghana 
 
Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit 
CT 3742 
Ghana 
Tel: 233-21 770246 
Fax: 233-21-770247 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 14, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 18, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
July 27, 2004 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
Ghana has made progress on poverty reduction over the past decade, but considerable 
effort will still be required to achieve a sustainable reversal in its post independence slide in 
living standards.  Overall, the incidence of poverty has fallen from 50% in 1992 to 43% in 1999. 
However, this reduction has been inequitable across socio-economic groups and geographically 
uneven. While overall social indicators have improved, education and health services have 
favored urban areas rather than rural areas. Food crop farmers have fared far less well, 
particularly those in the coastal and northern savanna zones where poverty is chronic and 
persistent. Uneven quality of service delivery and shortage of funding have contributed to 
increasing poverty in these areas. Inadequate development of rural infrastructure have 
disconnected households, particularly in the three northern regions, from economic growth 
taking place in the rest of the country, with limited opportunities to escape from poverty because 
of their limited access to education, markets and public services. 
 
The Government has formulated the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) that 
aligns its poverty reduction goals with those of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  
The overarching goal of this strategy is to achieve sustainable, equitable growth, accelerated 
poverty reduction, and the protection of the vulnerable and excluded within a decentralized 
democratic environment. The GPRS is anchored and articulated around five major issues that 
have been constraining socio-economic development in the past.  These are:  (i) macroeconomic 
Page  2
instability; (ii) sluggish growth in production and employment; (iii) weak human resource 
capacity; (iv) lack of effective special programs for the vulnerable and excluded; and (v) poor 
governance.  The GPRS has made tackling these issues the five pillars of its socio-economic 
development and poverty reduction agenda. 
 
Programs and actions that address the first two pillars of the GPRS, i.e. maintaining macro-
economic stability and increasing production and employment, target accelerated economic 
growth over the medium to long term. The focus will be first on continuing to ensure 
macroeconomic stability and reducing poverty. The existing constraints to private sector-led 
growth will be tackled in order to induce, and harness, the sources of growth so that new 
opportunities are generated. The focus in catalyzing new sources of growth will be increasing 
productivity in agriculture and non-traditional sectors, while improving natural resource and 
environmental management to ensure long-term sustainability, and tapping better into global 
knowledge.   
2
Objectives 
 
The overall goal of the project is to reduce poverty and enhance the quality of life of beneficiary 
rural communities. This will be achieved by improving their productive assets, rural 
infrastructure and access to key support services from private and public sources. Specifically the 
project will: 
(i) 
Build and strengthen capacities of national, regional, district, area councils 
and rural communities to deliver services and manage resources; 
(ii) 
Transfer technical and financial resources for the development of 
infrastructure and income generating activities to be managed and maintained 
by beneficiaries for their economic and social well-being and; 
(iii) 
Promote the convergence of decentralization efforts in accordance with the 
National Decentralization Action Plan. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
(see  Annex 2) 
The GPRS charts the medium-term strategy for growth and poverty reduction.  It aims to achieve 
equitable growth, accelerated poverty reduction and the protection of the vulnerable and 
excluded within a decentralized democratic environment.  The Bank’s Ghana Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS) is built on three strategic foundations in support of the GPRS, namely, (i) 
sustainable growth and job creation; (ii) human development and service provision; and (iii) 
governance and empowerment. The proposed CBRDP is one of the major tools for the 
implementation of the CAS. It is  repeater to the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP ITF NO 020 
-
GH), which is scheduled to close on June 30, 2004. In accordance with the procedures for 
repeater projects, approved by the Board in January 2003
1
,
a
Regional Review Panel
 was 
constituted to review the advisability of preparing a repeater project. The panel’s 
recommendation was positive- based on strong borrower interest, performance of the VIP 
1
Building on Success: More Efficient Processing of Repeater Projects, January 22, 2003. 
Page  3
implementation and alignment with the Ghana CAS, provided the Development Project 
Objectives (DPO) and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) were framed better.   
 
The panel’s recommendations have been taken into account in the preparation of the 
project (See Annex 3) as the CBRDP contributes to all three CAS foundations by providing 
access to project beneficiaries to productive resources through the development of rural 
infrastructure as well as sustainable on-farm and non-farm rural enterprise development activities 
which contribute to the realization of sustainable growth and job creation (item i above).  The 
project will also build the capacity of DAs, Area Councils (ACs), unit committees, traditional 
authorities and community-based organizations (CBOs) to plan and implement their rural 
infrastructure development based on full participation and on demand from the rural 
communities. The CBRDP will support the planning, design, implementation and monitoring 
process, thus deepening efforts at human resources development, decentralization of service 
delivery, good governance and empowerment of the poor (items ii and iii above).   
 
Implementation of the GPRS requires substantial resources that cannot be mobilized 
without the strong support of its development partners (DPs) including IDA.  Donors have in the 
past firmly supported Ghana’s development agenda. The multi-donor budget assistance was 
introduced in 2003 to align policy support with the GPRS and pool funds for budgetary support, 
as well as to harmonize implementation assistance and timing of performance reviews. A number 
of donors have initiated pilots aimed at harmonization of decentralization policies and programs 
at the grassroots level. CIDA’s District Wide Approach Project (DWAP) for 24 districts of the 
northern regions, IFADs Northern Region Poverty Reduction Program (NORPREP) and other 
programs supported by DANIDA and DFID are currently financing development initiatives in 
local government, decentralization and community-based programs. Development partners in 
Ghana have signaled their intention to realign funding of rural infrastructure through a District 
Development Funding Facility (DDFF) expected to go directly to the districts which is supported 
firmly by the Government and the Bank is expected to play a major role in the realization of this 
objective considering experience gained in sector-wide investment programs, particularly in the 
transport (road), health and agriculture sectors.    
 
A
first step within the Bank towards coordination of district-based intervention in support 
of decentralization is to rationalize the delivery of water and sanitation services. It has been 
agreed that the supply of point source community water and sanitation services will be funded 
through the CBRDP whilst small town water supply systems will be carried out through the 
Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project (STWSSP). The intention is to move out of project-
based activities to budgetary support to the districts through the (DDFF). The CBRDPs’ 
investment and capacity building windows will provide the beginnings of such a framework. The 
CBRDP is also designed to mainstream implementation into existing Government statutory 
agencies. PNDC Law 327 defines the roles and responsibilities of ministries and national level 
departments, regional coordinating councils and district assemblies. The tenets of the Law will 
be respected in the implementation of the two Bank financed projects. Policy formulation, 
guidelines and standards in all sectors, education, health water and sanitation, irrigation, roads 
etc.,  will be the responsibility of national level ministries, departments and agencies while 
implementation will be the responsibility of district assemblies and other local government 
institutions. In this regard, the Ministry of Works and Housing (MoWH) through the Community 
Page  4
Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) will provide policy guidance, facilitate and ensure that 
standards are maintained in the delivery of water and sanitation services as defined in the 
Agency’s Act 564 of 1998  
4.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
The lending instrument proposed for this project is the Sector Investment Loan (SIL). 
The Bank is considering harmonization of CDD activities under one financing instrument, for 
which a clear vision and strategy will be prepared in the next 12-18 months.  A SIL for four 
years was therefore deemed appropriate under these circumstances.  It is envisaged that the 
successor project will embrace all CDD activities financed perhaps with an APL. 
 
Project Development Objective and Key Indicators 
 
The overall goal of the project is to reduce poverty and enhance the quality of life of 
beneficiary rural communities. The objective is to strengthen the capacity of rural  communities 
to enhance their quality of life by improving their productive assets, rural infrastructure and 
access to key support services from private and public sources 
 
The objective will be achieved by consolidating and broadening the gains made during 
the implementation of the Village Infrastructure Project in the areas of capacity building, 
community empowerment and provision of capital investment funds to beneficiary communities. 
Progress towards the achievement of CBRDP objectives, outputs, outcomes and impacts will be 
measured through a set of key indicators which include: (i) number of communities engaged in 
the management of  infrastructure provided and ability of DAs to plan, deliver services and 
monitor effectively; (ii) increases in real value of agricultural production and productivity; (iii) 
increase in the number of rural enterprise and their productivity; (iv) volume of rural 
infrastructure constructed/rehabilitated (based on kilometers for roads, hectares for irrigated 
land; number of households with potable water, number of schools and community health 
compounds and nutrition centers rehabilitated; (v) reduction in the transmission of water borne 
diseases in beneficiary communities; (vi) size of environmentally sustainable managed natural 
resources; (vii) number of communities engaged in the management of natural resources and; 
(viii). increases in real net incomes of beneficiaries 
 
Project Components  
The project has a national coverage just like the VIP and consists of five components 
which have been re-arranged to provide clarity, respond to beneficiary concerns as is 
contained in the beneficiary assessment and survey report and focus on the more on 
development objectives. The components cover investing in capacity building and 
empowerment of rural population to drive the agenda for a community demand driven 
(CDD) program.  
 
Component1. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
(US$8.52):
 
This component will 
provide support to strengthen capacities of local government institutions in furtherance of the 
Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy which includes: (i) Good Governance through accountability 
and transparency and, (ii) human resource development, in order to improve service provision  
by statutory government agencies and private providers to rural communities. The project will 
Page  5
strengthen and enhance the capacities of the Ministry of Local Government and Rural 
Development (MLGRD), the 10 Regional Planning Coordinating Units (RPCU), 138 District 
Assemblies (DAs), Area Councils (ACs) including traditional authorities within the ACs, rural 
communities, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), CBOs, private and public service 
providers.  This component will include training, a public communication program, technical 
support and provision of logistical support to enhance communities participation in decision 
making processes, the performance of various levels of government in their statutory roles in 
planning and managing community driven initiatives.  
 
Component 2. Infrastructure for Agricultural Development
(US$21.90): Will provide facilities 
and resources to enhance farm and non-farm activities to increase the incomes of beneficiaries. 
This includes provision of water for agriculture, the rehabilitation of feeder roads, provision of 
intermediate means of transport to improve access (track and trails, carts, tricycles etc.,), to 
improve access to farm and markets and reduce the drudgery of head portage and enhance socio-
economic activities in the rural areas. The project will finance consultant services for engineering 
design, contract supervision and training wherever necessary. Maintenance of facilities will be 
the responsibility of beneficiary community and they will be trained to acquire the skills for 
doing so. Until the responsibility for the maintenance of feeder roads is transferred to the 
districts, the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) will be required to include any rehabilitated 
road in their annual maintenance plans and an MOU will be signed between the MLGRD and the 
DFR to that effect. 
 
Component 3. Rural Enterprise Development and Learning Centers
(US$8.37):
 
The objective is 
to develop skills and create employment in rural communities by assisting rural enterprises to 
properly managed and provide ready market for agricultural produce for processing for value 
addition and increased shelf life. The project will provide support for the strengthening of co-
operative business activities, market research, business linkages and joint venture agreements, 
micro-enterprise development and small business through training in technical and business 
management, upgrading and rehabilitation of equipment  to develop the enterprises in particular 
fields of commodity production, agro-processing and marketing.  
 
Learning centers will serve as focal points for empowering the poor through the acquisition of 
knowledge and skills, processing units and marketing outlets and promoting horizontal 
communication among communities. A learning centre is organized around a prospering small 
private enterprise that accept for training people willing to develop similar business. Trainees 
who acquire skills from the centre, become part of the learning and production network and may 
continue to be associated with the centre or will be encouraged to set-up their own business. The 
principal target groups for this components includes existing farm and non-farm entrepreneurs, 
under employed and unemployed rural populace (made up of rural youth, rural women and 
graduate apprentices). 
 
Component 4.  Infrastructure for Social and Human Development
(US$23.34)
:
Provision of a 
congenial environment for learning and health by rehabilitating existing but run down school 
facilities, construction of community health compounds and nutrition centers. This component 
will also provide potable water for areas known to have water related diseases which limit the 
productivity of the rural population and where women and children have to travel far to access 
Page  6
clean water. The water activities will be limited to point sources such as hand dug wells and bore 
holes fitted with hand pumps. Sanitation and hygiene provision will be integrated with the 
delivery of water facilities to maximize health benefits. The implementation of the water supply 
will follow the guidelines described in the Project Operational Manual (POM) of the STWSSP. 
Backlog of point sources sub-projects generated under CWSP2 Phase 1 will be rolled over into 
this component for financing. The interventions will be coordinated with sector ministries such 
as education health and CWSA to ensure consistency with sectoral policies and standards.   
 
Component 5.  Community-based Natural Resource Management
(US$4.50): This component 
will strengthen the capacities of environmental and sanitation sub-committees, ACs and 
community level organizations to enhance environmental governance and integrated 
management of land and water resources. Using the year 2003 updated land use/cover maps, the 
project will identify and rehabilitate five critically degraded watershed areas and additionally 
support communities and districts on who will demand support for the management of degraded 
areas. The project will in addition provide support to non-farm activities by targeting resource 
collectors, processors and traders, wood carvers, traditional medical practitioners, wildlife traders 
and breeders, tree crop growers, and rural eco-tourism operators. 
 
Project Management
(US$7.30): The management and implementation of these components 
would be assisted by financing project management and implementation support. Technical 
assistance and services would be provided to communities to prepare development and 
investment plans, feasibility studies, detailed engineering designs, procurement, supervision of 
contracts and monitoring. Similar packages would be provided at the national and regional levels 
to guide and coordinate project implementation, provision of credit, monitoring and evaluation  
 
Poverty Targeting 
 
Project interventions have been designed to reduce poverty by targeting areas with the 
highest incidence of poverty. Capacity building initiatives will be targeted to the poorest area 
councils and communities identified with the highest incidence of poverty by the Ghana Living 
Standards Survey (GLSS) and the results of GTZ funded poverty mapping exercise. All rural 
enterprises and facilities to be supported by the project to empower community with skills and 
create employment will be located in rural communities and must show considerable benefits to 
the poor. The project will not finance any facility in a regional capital, or a town considered to be 
municipal or urban by MLGRD classification. All districts, AC and community development 
plans will be developed in a participatory manner and communities will be given the option in 
the use of force account in the execution of micro-projects based on agreed threshold for 
expenditures. It will be the responsibility of Project management to ensure that micro-projects 
are financed through the CBRDP are at the request of beneficiary community. 
 
5. 
Financing
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 8.93 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
59.98 
LOCAL COMMUNITIES 
2.56 
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING 
2.47 
Page  7
COUNTRY 
 Total 
73.94 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Expedited processing of the CBRDP by the World Bank may have made it difficult for 
other development partners to provide firm financial commitment. However, they have had the 
opportunity to influence the design of the project and there is still ample time and flexibility for 
their participation. This is not unusual in project processing in Ghana. Even in cases where most 
development partners participate in WB appraisal missions, their processing takes varying time 
tracks leading to their loan/Grant effective
ness much later than the Bank’s. 
 
Agence Française Development (AFD) participated in the appraisal mission and gave an 
indication of additional financial support  of between Euro 8-10 million whilst IFAD will be 
fielding separate missions to evaluate VIP, on the basis of which their level of support to the 
CBRDP will be determined. It is anticipated that the 3 DPs and others will participate in the 
project’s financing and will sign subsidiary agreements with the Borrower at a later stage.  
(see Annex 6) 
 National 
Level 
Management
 Project organization and management will be similar to 
those of the  VIP. Project implementation will be mainstreamed into existing statutory 
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) responsible for rural development. The MLGRD 
is responsible for decentralization and rural development in Ghana. It has established the inter-
sectoral committee on decentralization and a Secretariat to coordinate and oversee the 
implementation of NDAP. Oversight of the project implementation will be the responsibility of 
the MLGRD and will be assisted in this capacity by a Project Steering Committee (PSC). The 
PSC to be chaired by the Minister for MLGRD, will comprise Chief Executives/Directors from 
the  ministries and agencies listed in Annex 6. The PSC will meet quarterly during the 1
st
 year 
and semi-annually in subsequent years and will have the responsibility for overall guidance, 
including: (i) policy guidance; (ii) coordination and harmonization of activities of agencies and 
ministries involved in project implementation; (iii) review and approval of annual work plans, 
budget and reports; and (iv) assessment of progress towards attainment of project development 
objectives.   
 
At present, MLGRD lacks capacity for project implementation and financial 
management. It will have to be assisted and strengthened to mainstream project implementation 
over the duration of the project. Consequently, the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit 
(RICU), which successfully managed the VIP will provide management assistance. The RICU 
will, in the process of implementation, ensure that appropriate MLGRD departments the RPCUs; 
DAs, ACs and communities are strengthened to carry out their statutory functions. The national 
RICU staff position will be strengthened to include a Rural Enterprises Development and a 
Natural Resources Management Specialists to coordinate the implementation of the rural 
enterprise and learning centers and the community-based natural resource management 
components of the project.  
 
The RICU will maintain the existing core staff including, the National Coordinator who 
will report directly to the Chief Director, MLGRD and act as the secretary to the PSC. Assistance 
to be provided by RICU to the MLGRD will include project management and coordination, 
Page  8
planning and budgeting, financial management, managing the IDA special account in 
compliance with World Bank Financial Management Guidelines, ensuring procurement complies 
with the country’s procurement guidelines, monitoring and evaluation, infrastructure engineering 
and micro-project appraisal.  
 
Regional Management and Zonal Coordination
.
The RPCU has responsibility, as a 
secretariat of the Regional Coordinating Council (RCC), to coordinate and monitor and evaluate 
all district development programs. Membership of the RPCUs is defined in the “
Guidelines for 
the Operationalization of District and Regional Planning Coordinating Units.” 
 The RPCUs has 
recently been constituted, is poorly resourced and lack implementation capacity to carry out their 
statutory obligations and to provide technical support to the districts. Consequently, the project 
will maintain the existing four Zonal RICUs, which will recruit an additional institutions 
specialist and an engineer per region to strengthen the capacity of the RPCUs. The functions of 
the zonal RICUs will be similar to those of the national RICU but will be limited to providing 
support to the RPCUs and to a limited extent the DPCUs. The RICUs will strengthen and 
transfer capacities to the RPCU under the overall guidance of the RCCs   to coordinate, appraise 
and approve district proposals and carry out quality assurance. Relevant technical departments 
such as Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWST), Ghana Irrigation Development Authority 
(GIDA), Department of Feeder Roads, etc., will provide technical backstopping to the RPCUs as 
per their respective statutory obligations.   
 
District Level Management.
 The focal point of project implementation will be the DAs 
ACs and Communities and their traditional authorities. The Local Government Law (Act 462), 
which established the DAs, makes each district responsible for development activities at the 
district level.  Each district has an Executive Committee headed by the District Chief Executive 
with specialized departments for planning, budgeting, finance and administration, which 
constitute the DPCU. The DPCUs have project implementation experience, having successfully 
attained the capacity through the VIP and other donor funded projects, and will be responsible 
for project implementation and management of micro-projects and investment funds on behalf of 
ACs and communities. They will prepare a participatory three yearly development plans in line 
with the Medium Term Economic Framework (MTEF) and annual work and procurement plans 
which will provide details of financing gaps for their rural infrastructure need. Finally, they will 
submit proposals to the RPCUs, who will evaluate the proposals together with the Zonal RICU 
offices. The roles and responsibilities of the RICUs and the various offices as well as their 
relationships with line agencies and ministries will be defined in the PIM. Ultimately, it is the 
responsibility of beneficiary communities to ensure proper implementation and maintenance of 
miro-projects. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of components of the project beyond the implementation period is 
considered likely. Implementation arrangements, financial management and procurement 
procedures are mainstreamed through statutory government agencies responsible for rural 
development. The Government has provided the necessary legal and regulatory framework by 
the enactment of the Local Government Act 462 of 1993, the National Development Planning 
(Systems) Act 480 of 1994, the Procurement Act signed by the President on December 31, 2003 
Page  9
and the Local Government Service Act also signed by the President on December 31, 2003. 
These agencies and procedures stipulated in the laws will continue to exist and perform functions 
described in the project document beyond the life of the project.  Similarly, provision of credit 
for private goods is routed through existing rural financial institutions with the capacity to 
manage loans, approved by the Bank of Ghana.  Furthermore, the completion of the National 
Decentralization Action Plan, and the establishment of a Decentralization Secretariat and the 
Presidential Oversight Committee are strong indications to the Government’s commitment to 
pursue the decentralization agenda.  
 
The project design lays emphasis on ownership and training for the maintenance of 
facilities provided. Consequently, sustainability of micro-projects is also assured so far as those 
trained to maintain the facilities continue to receive adequate back-up support from the DAs, 
ACs, relevant agencies and private providers.  The potential threat of the lack of maintenance of 
feeder roads exists; however, the project will not add on to the current feeder road network but 
rehabilitate those that have been identified by communities and are incorporated in the 
development plans of the districts for annual remedial works. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Two new initiatives were introduced in CBRDP to strengthen the project for better attainment of 
the same objectives as those of the VIP.  These initiatives are the rural enterprise and learning 
centers and community-based integrated natural resources management.  The learning centers   
will impart skills and knowledge and provide technical assistance in operation and maintenance 
of capital investments and management of community-based enterprises. The menu of sub-
projects has also been widened due to popular demand from communities during the beneficiary 
assessment survey to include social infrastructure.  
 
Another lesson that was learned from the implementation of the VIP is that rural 
communities have little incentive for undertaking natural resources management practices that 
ensure sustainable use of their land resource base.  The introduction of the new initiative in 
CBRDP is aimed at using the incentive of the provision of rural infrastructure to rural 
communities  to enhance improved community-based management of natural resources and 
environmental conservation through technologies and techniques such as soil and water 
conservation and fertility enhancement, using a watershed management approach, establishment 
of community forests and improvement and sustainable development of traditional forms of 
energy.  
 
The VIP piloted empowerment of rural communities and good governance by training 
areas councils to prepare participatory plans and manage public goods.  A major thrust of 
CBRDP is building the capacity of area councils and communities with the active participation 
of traditional authorities to make them functional in areas of priority setting, planning, 
implementation, monitoring and accountability with active participation of civil society and the 
private sector 
 
Page  10
Implementation completion reports (ICR) and their evaluation by OED indicate that 
performance of Bank-financed rural development projects was overall rather poor. Out of 13 
projects financed, only 38% (5 projects) received satisfactory rating on outcome, while 46% (6 
projects) were moderately satisfactory. Two projects (16%) were rated unsatisfactory. Only 31% 
of these projects were rated likely on sustainability.  However, 54% and 38% were evaluated to 
have, respectively, substantial and moderate impact on institutional development. In contrast to 
this poor performance, the VIP was implemented successfully, and is expected to receive better 
rating in the ICR, which is under preparation. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
a. 
Safeguards screening category: S2 
b.  Environmental screening category: B 
c. 
Key safeguard policy issues: no major issues. Frameworks in place on a “just in 
case” basis. 
d. 
Main results of safeguards policy-related studies: no major impacts; those impacts 
that pertain to the project are given in 4. and 5. above. 
e. 
Consultations have occurred, but mainly on project design with only very low 
safeguards considerations.  
f. 
Safeguards studies were made available at the InfoShop in March 2004. 
g.  Safeguards studies were made available in the cooperating country in April 2004. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[] [x 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x ] 
10. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Studies Conducted with Japanese PHRD Grant 
 
a. 
Analysis of Institutional Framework and Clarification of Roles, Functions and 
Responsibilities of MDAs, RCCS and DAs to support Decentralization and 
Efficient Delivery of Infrastructure Services 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
b.  Beneficiary and Stakeholder Needs Assessment for Community-based Natural 
Resource Management 
c. 
Assessment of Rural Water Infrastructure Needs 
d.  Ghana Social Assessment Study: Changing Dynamics and Capacity for Sustained 
Community Development and Poverty Reduction 
e. 
Planning and Budgeting Processes at the District Assemblies 
f. 
Rural Enterprise, Learning Centers and Micro-finance in Ghana 
g.  Rural Post Harvest Infrastructure  Needs Assessment 
h.  Rural Transport Needs Assessment 
i. 
Environment Assessment Report and Resettlement Policy Framework 
 
Project Implementation Plan
 
j. Project 
Implementation 
Manual 
k.  Guidelines for the Operationalisation of District and Regional Planning 
Coordinating Units 
 
Bank Staff Assessments 
 
l. 
Report of Panel Review of the  PCN 
m. QER Report 
n.  Decision Meeting Report 
o.  Bank Aide Memoires (pre-appraisal, February 2 
–
8,
2004;
appraisal mission, 
March 29 – April 9, 2004 
 
Others 
p.  Detailed Cost Tables 
q.  Beneficiary Assessment of the Village Infrastructure Project 
r. 
ICR Report of VIP 
 
11. Contact 
point 
Task Manager: Charles Annor-Frempong 
Title: Sr Agricultural Spec. 
Tel: 5337+3116 
Fax:  
Email: Cannorfrempong@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD) 
 
12. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  12
