                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 28539




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT

                         INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR40.9 MILLION
                            (USD60.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                  GOVERNMENTOF GHANA

                                             FORA

                COMMUNITY-BASEDRURALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                           July 7,2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective March31,2004)


                         Currency Unit = Cedis
                            Cedis 9050 = US$l
                           US$1.4666 = SDR 1

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1   - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC     Area Council
AFD     Agence FranqaiseDevelopment
AWP     Annual Work Plan
C&AGP   Controller and GeneralAccountant Department
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community-Based Organization
CDD     Community-Demand Driven
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR    Country ProcurementAssessment Review
CWSA    Community Water and SanitationAgency
DA      District Assembly
DACF    District Assemblies CommonFund
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DDFF    District Development Funding Facility
DFO     District Finance Officer
DFR     Departmentof FeederRoads
DPs     Development Partners
DPCU    DistrictPlanning Coordinating Units
EO1     Expressionof Interest
EPA     EnvironmentalProtection Agency
EPC     Export Promotion Council
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
FAA     Financial Administration Act
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
FSD     Forestry ServicesDivision
GFAA    GhanaFinancial Administration Act 2003
GHAMFIN GhanaAssociation o fMicro-Finance Institutions
GIDA    Ghana IrrigationDevelopment Authority
GIMPA   GhanaInstitutefor Management andPublic Administration
GOG     Government of Ghana
GPN     GeneralProcurementNotice
GPRS    GhanaPoverty Reduction Strategy
HIPC    Highly-Indebted Poor Countries
IA      IntemalAudit

                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

 ICB        International Competitive Bidding
 ICR        Implementation CompletionReport
 IMT        IntermediateMeans of Transport
 LCS        Least Cost Selection
 LG         Local Government
 LGFR       Local Government FinancialAdministration
 LPO        LimitedPurchaseOrder
 M&E        Monitoring andEvaluation
 MDA         Ministries, DepartmentsandAgencies
 MMDA       Metropolitan, MunicipalandDistrict Assemblies
 MDBS       Multi-Donor Budget Support
 MDG        MillenniumDevelopmentGoal
 MLF        Ministry of LandandForestry
 MLGRD      MinistryofLocalGovernmentandRuralDevelopment
 MoEYS      Ministry ofEducation, Youth and Sport
  MoFEP     MinistryofFinanceandEconomic Planning
  MOFA      MinistryofFoodandAgriculture
  MoH       MinistryofHealth
  MTI&PSI   MinistryofTrade, IndustryandPresidentialSpecialInitiatives
 NCB        National Competitive Bidding
  NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
  O&M       OperationsandMaintenance
  PAC       ParliamentaryAccounts Committee
  PIM       Project Implementation Manual
  PTU       Project ImplementationUnit
  PLWHA     Persons Living with HIVlAIDS
  POM       Project Operational Manual
  PPMED     Policy PlanningMonitoringandEvaluationDepartment
  PPR       ProcurementPost Review
  PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
  QCBS      Quality Cost BasedSelection Methodology
  RCC       RegionalCoordinating Council
  RFI       RuralFinancialInstitutions
  RICU      Rural Infiastructure Coordinating Unit
  RMSC      Regional ManagementSupport Center
  RPCU      RegionalPlanning Coordinating Units
  RPF       Resettlement PolicyFramework
  SBCQ      Selection Basedon Consultant's Qualification
  SBD       StandardBiddingDocument
  SFB       SelectionUndera FixedBudget
  SRFP       StandardRequest for Proposal
  SRMC       SavannaResourcesManagementCenter
  sss        Single Source Selection
  UNICTRAL UNCommissionon International Trade Law
  VIP        Village Infrastructure Project
  WD        Wildlife Division

This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                      -___

WFP   World FoodProgram




          Regional Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
                Country Director:   Mats Karlsson
                 SectorManager:     Mary A. Barton-Dock
               Task Team Leader:    CharlesAnnor-Frempong

                                                           GHANA
                                Community-BasedRuraldevelopment

                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                     Page
ASTRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                          ......................................................................            3
                                                                                                                                                           3
 2. RATIONALEFORBANKINVOLVEMENT
 1. COUNTRYAND SECTORISSUES .............................................................................................
                                                             (SEE ANNEX 2)               ........................................................ 3
 3.  HIGHER LEVEL OBJECT~VESTO WHICH THE PROJECTCONTRIBUTES                                                   ...................................... 5
B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
.                                         ...................................................................................................              5
 1 . LENDING INSTRUMENT             ......................................................................................................... 5
 2.  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT               OBJECTIVEAND KEYINDICATORS
 3. PROJECT                                                                                       ................................................         5
             COMPONENTS             ......................................................................................................... 6
 4. LESSONS  LEARNED AND REFLECTEDINTHE PROJECTDESIGN                                              ...............................................         8
                                                                                                                                                           9
C.5. ALTERNATIVES       CONSIDEREDAND REASONS FORREJECTION                                        ................................................
    IMPLEMENTATION                ...........................................................................................................              9
 1 .                                                                                                                                                       9
 2. INSTITUTIONALAND IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS(SEE ANNEX6)
     PARTNERSHIPARRANGEMENTS (IF APPLICABLE) ..................................................................          ...........................
 3.  MONITORINGEVALUATIONOFOUTCOMES/RESULTS(SEETECHNICALANNEX3)
                     AND                                                                                                                           ........10
                                                                                                                                                          11
 4.  SUSTAINABILITY       .................................................................................................................               11
 5. CRITICAL RISKS AND POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS...................................................                                                  12
 6. LOAN~REDIT       COND~T~ONSAND COVENANTS                            ......................................................................            13
APPRAISAL SUMMARY                ..........................................................................................................               13
                                                                                                                                                          13
 2. TECHNICAL
 1. ECONOMIC FINANCIAL ANALYSES................................................................................
               AND
                 .........................................................................................................................                15
 3. FIDUCIARY.........................................................................................................................                    15
 4 .                                                                                                                                                      16
                        ................................................................................................................... 16
 6.
 5. ENVIRONMENT
     SOCIAL ...............................................................................................................................

                                                                                                                                                          17
 7. POLICYEXCEPTIONS READINESS
     SAFEGUARD POLICIES .........................................................................................................
                                 AND                         ................................................................................ 17
ANNEX 1:COUNTRYAND SECTOROR PROGRAMBACKGROUND                                                                              .........................      18
ANNEX 2: MAJORRELATEDPROJECTSFINANCEDBYTHE BANKAND/OR
OTHERAGENCIES           ...................................................................................................................               22
ANNEX 4: DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION                                             ..............................................................            35
ANNEX 5: ESTIMATEDPROJECTCOSTS                                       .........................................................................            42
ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS                                                  ..........................................................           43
ANNEX 7: FINANCIALMANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS46
ANNEX 9: ECONOMICAND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                   ......................................................           67

ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARDPOLICY ISSUES    .........................................................................    72
ANNEX 11:PROJECT PREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION                          ........................................... 74
ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTS INTHE PROJECTFILE               ...........................................................  76
ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OF LOANSAND CREDITS                 .......................................................  77
ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE.................................................................................   79

MAP IBRD33346

                                          GHANA
                     COMMUNITY-BASED RURALDEVELOPMENT

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                   Africa Regional Offce
                                          AFTS4

Date: July 7,2004                             Team Leader: Charles Annor-Frempong
Country Director: Mats Karlsson               Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
Sector Manager: MaryA. Barton-Dock            forestry sector (100%)
                                              Themes: Ruralservicesandinfrastructure (P)
Project ID: PO81482                           Environmental screening category: Partial
                                              Assessment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguardscreening category: S2




For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 60.0




International Development Association           37.04             22.94             59.98
District Assembly                                2.56              0.00              2.56
Beneficiaries                                    2.47              0.00              2.47
Total:                                          51.OO             22.94             73.94

Borrower:
RepublicofGhana
Accra, Ghana
RESPONSIBLEAGENCY:
MinistryofLocalGovernmentandRuralDevelopment
Accra, Ghana




                                             1

 Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
 Re$ PAD A.3                                                                       [          No
 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these beenapprovedby Bankmanagement?                                          E ]Yes [ IN0
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                      [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the project includeany critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
 Re$ PAD C.5                                                                       [X]Yes [INo
 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        t ]Yes [ IN0
 Project developmentobjective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
 The objective ofthe project is to strengthenthe capacity ofruralcommunities to enhancetheir
 quality of life by improvingtheir productive assets, ruralinfrastructure andaccess to key support
 services from private andpublic sources
 Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
 Annex 4
 (a) Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. Strengthengovernance andfunctional
 capacities ofMLGRD, RPCU, DPCU, ACs', communities withtheir opinion andtraditional
 authorities to deliver cost effective services to ruralcommunities (US$ 8.52 million).
 (b) Infrastructure for Agricultural Development: Provisionofwater for agriculture, rural
 transport infrastructure andpost-harvest facilities to enhance farm andnonfarm rural activities
 (US$21.90 million).
 (c) Rural enterprise development. Establishmentof community owned andmanagedbusinesses
 andmicro-enterprisesto create avenues for skills developmentandjob creation (US$ 8.37
 million)
 (d) Infras~ucturefor Socialand Human Development. Rehabilitation ofexisting schools,
 constructionof community healthcompounds andnutritioncenters andpotable water for
 communitiesto enhance wellbeing andreducewater bornediseases (US$23.34 million)
 (e) Community-based ~ a t u r aResource Management. Capacity buildingof communities and
                                  l
 district assembliesto enhance environmental governanceandintegratedmanagementof land and
 water resources (US$4.5 million)
 Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PADD.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 Environmental Assessment OP 4.01
 Involuntary Resettlement, OP4.12

 Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:
 Re$ PAD C.7
 Boardpresentation: None
 LoanCredit Effectiveness
  (a) Adoption of aProject Implementation Manual (PIM)inthe form and substance satisfactory
      to IDA, specifying, inter alia, performance indicators, proceduresandother arrangementsfor
      the purposeof implementation of the project;
  (b) Appointment ofindependentfirms oflocalauditors onterms ofreference satisfactory to
      IDA inaccordancewiththe procedures inSectionI1of Schedule 3 ofthe DCA; and
  (c) Transferof the VIP FundAccount from Bank of Ghanato ARB Apex Bank.
I Covenantsapplicable   to project implementation: None



                                                    2

A.STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Countryand sector issues

1.      Ghana has made progress on poverty reduction over the past decade, but considerable
effort will still be required to achieve a sustainable reversal in its post independence slide in
livingstandards. Overall, the incidence ofpoverty has fallen from 50% in1992to 43% in 1999.
However, this reduction has been inequitable across socio-economic groups and geographically
uneven. While overall social indicators have improved, education and health services have
favored urban areas rather than rural areas. Food crop farmers have fared far less well,
particularly those in the coastal and northern savanna zones where poverty is chronic and
persistent. Uneven quality of service delivery and shortage of funding have contributed to
increasing poverty in these areas. Inadequate development of rural infrastructure have
disconnected households, particularly in the three northern regions, from economic growth
taking place inthe rest of the country, with limitedopportunities to escape from poverty because
of their limitedaccess to education, markets andpublic services.

2.      The Government has formulated the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) that
aligns its poverty reduction goals with those o f the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
The overarching goal of this strategy is to achieve sustainable, equitable growth, accelerated
poverty reduction, and the protection of the vulnerable and excluded within a decentralized
democratic environment. The GPRS is anchored and articulated around five major issues that
have been constraining socio-economic development inthe past. These are: (i)      macroeconomic
instability; (ii)sluggish growth in production and employment; (iii)       weak human resource
capacity; (iv) lack of effective special programs for the vulnerable and excluded; and (v) poor
governance. The GPRS has made tackling these issues the five pillars o f its socio-economic
developmentandpoverty reduction agenda.

3, Programs and actions that address the first two pillars of the GPRS, i.e. maintaining macro-
economic stability and increasing production and employment, target accelerated economic
growth over the medium to long term. The focus will be first on continuing to ensure
macroeconomic stability and reducing poverty. The existing constraints to private sector-led
growth will be tackled in order to induce, and harness, the sources of growth so that new
opportunities are generated. The focus in catalyzing new sources o f growth will be increasing
productivity in agriculture and non-traditional sectors, while improving natural resource and
environmental management to ensure long-term sustainability, and tapping better into global
knowledge.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement (see Annex 2)
4.      The GPRS charts the medium-termstrategy for growth and poverty reduction. It aims to
achieve equitable growth, acceleratedpoverty reduction and the protection of the vulnerable and
excluded withina decentralizeddemocratic environment. The Bank's Ghana Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) is built on three strategic foundations in support of the GPRS, namely, (i)
sustainable growth and job creation; (ii) development and service provision; and (iii)
                                            human
governance and empowerment. The proposed CBRDP is one of the major tools for the
implementation of the CAS. It i s repeaterto the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP ITF NO 020
- GH), which is scheduled to close on June 30, 2004. In accordance with the procedures for



                                                 3

repeater projects, approved by the Board in January 2003`, a Regional Review Panel was
constituted to review the advisability of preparing a repeater project. The panel's
recommendation was positive- based on strong borrower interest, performance of the VIP
implementation and alignment with the Ghana CAS, provided the Development Project
Objectives (DPO) andMonitoring andEvaluation (M&E) were framed better.

5.      The panel's recommendations have been taken into account in the preparation of the
project (See Annex 3) as the CBRDP contributes to all three CAS foundations by providing
access to project beneficiaries to productive resources through the development of rural
infrastructure as well as sustainableon-farm andnon-farm ruralenterprise developmentactivities
which contribute to the realization of sustainable growth andjob creation (item iabove). The
project will also build the capacity of DAs, Area Councils (ACs), unit committees, traditional
authorities and community-based organizations (CBOs) to plan and implement their rural
infrastructure development based on full participation and on demand from the rural
communities. The CBRDP will support the planning, design, implementation and monitoring
process, thus deepening efforts at human resources development, decentralization of service
delivery, good governanceandempowermentofthe poor (items iiandiiiabove).

6.      Implementation of the GPRS requires substantial resources that cannot be mobilized
without the strong support of its developmentpartners(DPs) includingIDA. Donors have inthe
past firmly supported Ghana's development agenda. The multi-donor budget assistance was
introduced in2003 to align policy support with the GPRS and pool funds for budgetary support,
as well as to harmonize implementation assistance andtiming o fperformance reviews. A number
of donors have initiated pilots aimed at harmonization of decentralization policies and programs
at the grassroots level. CIDA's District Wide Approach Project (DWAP) for 24 districts of the
northern regions, IFADs Northern Region Poverty Reduction Program (NORPREP) and other
programs supported by DANIDA and DFID are currently financing development initiatives in
local government, decentralization and community-based programs. Development partners in
Ghana have signaled their intention to realign funding of rural infrastructure through a District
Development Funding Facility (DDFF) expectedto go directly to the districts which is supported
firmly by the Government andthe Bank is expectedto play a major role inthe realization of this
objective considering experience gained insector-wide investment programs, particularly inthe
transport (road), health and agriculture sectors.

7.      A first step withinthe Bank towards coordination ofdistrict-based intervention insupport
of decentralization is to rationalize the delivery o f water and sanitation services. It has been
agreed that the supply o f point source community water and sanitation services will be funded
through the CBRDP whilst small town water supply systems will be carried out through the
Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project (STWSSP). The intention is to move out of project-
based activities to budgetary support to the districts through the (DDFF). The CBRDPs'
investmentandcapacity building windows will provide the beginnings of such a fiamework. The
CBRDP is also designed to mainstream implementation into existing Government statutory
agencies. PNDC Law 327 defines the roles and responsibilities of ministries and national level
departments, regional coordinating councils and district assemblies. The tenets of the Law will
be respected in the implementation of the two Bank financed projects. Policy formulation,

 Buildingon Success: MoreEfficient ProcessingofRepeater Projects, January22,2003.


                                                  4

guidelines and standards in all sectors, education, health water and sanitation, irrigation, roads
etc.,   will be the responsibility of national level ministries, departments and agencies while
implementation will be the responsibility o f district assemblies and other local government
institutions. Inthis regard, the Ministry of Works and Housing (MOW)       through the Community
Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) will provide policy guidance, facilitate and ensure that
standards are maintained in the delivery of water and sanitation services as defined in the
Agency's Act 564 o f 1998

3. Higherlevel objectivesto whichthe projectcontributes
8.       This project will contribute to the overall empowerment of rural population to actively
participate in issues which affect their daily lives through support to the decentralization
process. It will also contribute to improved service delivery, employment and economic growth
especially among the ruralpopulation. Ghana's higher-level objectives are to reducepoverty and
increase the quality of life of the rural poor. The CBRDP contributes to these objectives by
directly assisting communities to determine their requirements in a participatory manner,
prioritizingthese requirements andprovidingthe resourcesto them to implement their programs,
Provision of facilities will be based primarily on the Community-demand driven (CDD)
initiative.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. LendingInstrument
9,       The lending instrument proposed for this project is the Sector Investment Loan (SIL).
The Bank is considering harmonization of CDD activities under one financing instrument, for
which a clear vision and strategy will be prepared in the next 12-18 months. A SIL for four
years was therefore deemed appropriate under these circumstances. It i s envisaged that the
successor project will embrace all CDD activities financed perhapswithan APL.

2.       ProjectDevelopmentObjectiveandKeyIndicators
 10.     The overall goal of the project is to reduce poverty and enhance the quality of life of
beneficiary rural communities. The objective is to strengthen the capacity o f rural communities
to enhance their quality o f life by improving their productive assets, rural infrastructure and
access to key support services from private andpublic sources

 11.     The objective will be achieved by consolidating and broadening the gains made during
the implementation of the Village Infrastructure Project in the areas o f capacity building,
community empowerment and provision of capital investment finds to beneficiary communities.
Progress towards the achievement of CBRDP objectives, outputs, outcomes and impacts will be
measuredthrough a set of key indicators which include: (i)      number of communities engaged in
the management o f infrastructure provided and ability of DAs to plan, deliver services and
monitor effectively; (ii) increases in real value o f agricultural production and productivity; (iii)
increase in the number of rural enterprise and their productivity; (iv) volume of rural
infrastructure constructedhehabilitated (based on kilometers for roads, hectares for irrigated
land; number of households with potable water, number of schools and community health
compounds and nutrition centers rehabilitated; (v) reduction inthe transmission of water borne
diseases in beneficiary communities; (vi) size of environmentally sustainable managed natural




                                                 5

resources; (vii) number of communities engaged in the management of natural resources and;
(viii). increasesinrealnet incomesofbeneficiaries

3.       ProjectComponents
12.      The project has a national coveragejust like the VIP andconsistsof five components
which have beenre-arrangedto provide clarity, respondto beneficiary concerns as is contained
inthe beneficiary assessmentandsurveyreport andfocus onthe moreondevelopment
objectives. The components cover investing incapacitybuildingandempowermento frural
population to drive the agenda for a community demanddriven(CDD) program.

Component1 Institutional Strengthening and CaDacity Building (US$8.52million; IDA: US$
              .
7.6million): This component will provide support to strengthen capacities of local government
institutions in furtherance o f the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy which includes: (i)  Good
Governance through accountability and transparency and, (ii)      human resource development, in
order to improve service provision by statutory government agencies and private providers to
rural communities. The project will strengthen and enhance the capacities of the Ministry of
Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD), the 10 Regional Planning Coordinating
Units (RPCU), 138 District Assemblies @As), Area Councils (ACs) including traditional
authorities within the ACs, rural communities, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs),
CBOs, private and public service providers. This component will include training, a public
communication program, technical support and provision of logistical support to enhance
communities participation in decision making processes, the performance of various levels of
governmentintheir statutory roles inplanning andmanagingcommunity driveninitiatives.

Component 2. Infrastructure for Agricultural Development (US$21.90million; IDA: US$
17.3million): Will provide facilities and resources to enhance farm and non-farm activities to
increase the incomes of beneficiaries. This includes provision of water for agriculture, the
rehabilitation of feeder roads, provision of intermediate means of transport to improve access
(track and trails, carts, tricycles etc.,), to improve access to farm and markets and reduce the
drudgery of head portage and enhance socio-economic activities inthe rural areas. The project
will finance consultant services for engineering design, contract supervision and training
wherever necessary. Maintenance of facilities will be the responsibility of beneficiary
community andthey will be trained to acquire the skills for doing so. Untilthe responsibility for
the maintenance of feeder roads is transferred to the districts, the Department of Feeder Roads
(DFR)will berequiredto includeany rehabilitatedroadintheir annualmaintenanceplans andan
MOUwill be signedbetweenthe MLGRDandthe DFRto that effect.

 Component 3. RuralEnterurise Development and Learning Centers (US$8.37million; IDA: US$
 6.5million): The objective is to develop skills and create employment in rural communities by
 assisting rural enterprises to properly managed and provide ready market for agricultural
 produce for processing for value addition and increased shelf life. The project will provide
 support for the strengthening of co-operative business activities, market research, business
 linkages and joint venture agreements, micro-enterprise development and small business
 through training in technical and business management, upgrading and rehabilitation of
 equipment to develop the enterprises in particular fields of commodity production, ago-
 processingandmarketing.



                                                   6

Learning centers will serve as focal points for empowering the poor through the acquisition of
knowledge and skills, processing units and marketing outlets and promoting horizontal
communication among communities. A learning centre is organized around a prospering small
private enterprise that accept for training people willing to develop similar business. Trainees
who acquire skills from the centre, become part of the learning andproduction network and may
continue to be associated with the centre or will be encouragedto set-up their own business. The
principal target groups for this components includes existing farm and non-farm entrepreneurs,
under employed and unemployed rural populace (made up of rural youth, rural women and
graduate apprentices).

Component 4. Infrastructure for Social and HumanDevelopment (US$23,34million; IDA: US$
18Smillion): Provision of a congenial environment for learning and health by rehabilitating
existing but run down school facilities, construction o f community health compounds and
nutrition centers. This component will also provide potable water for areas known to have water
related diseases which limit the productivity of the rural population and where women and
children have to travel far to access clean water. The water activities will be limited to point
sources such as hand dug wells and bore holes fitted with hand pumps. Sanitation and hygiene
provision will be integratedwiththe delivery of water facilities to maximize healthbenefits. The
implementation of the water supply will follow the guidelines described in the Project
Operational Manual (POM) of the STWSSP. Backlog of point sources sub-projects generated
under CWSP2 Phase 1will be rolled over into this component for financing. The interventions
will be coordinated with sector ministries such as education health and CWSA to ensure
consistency withsectoralpolicies and standards.

Component 5. Community-based Natural Resource Management (US$4,50million; IDA: US$
3.9million): This component will strengthen the capacities of environmental and sanitation sub-
committees, ACs and community level organizations to enhance environmental governance and
integrated managemento f landand water resources. Usingthe year 2003 updatedlanduselcover
maps, the project will identify and rehabilitate five critically degraded watershed areas and
additionally support communities anddistricts on who will demandsupport for the management
of degradedareas. The project will inaddition provide support to non-farm activities by targeting
resource collectors, processors and traders, wood carvers, traditional medical practitioners,
wildlife traders andbreeders, tree crop growers, andrural eco-tourism operators.

 Project Management (US$7.30million;          IDA: US$6.2million):      The    management and
implementation of these components would be assisted by financing project management and
implementation support. Technical assistance and services would be provided to communities to
prepare development and investment plans, feasibility studies, detailed engineering designs,
procurement, supervision of contracts and monitoring. Similar packages would be provided at
the national and regional levels to guide and coordinate project implementation, provision of
credit, monitoring andevaluation




                                                 7

Poverty Targeting

13.     Project interventions have been designed to reduce poverty by targeting areas with the
highest incidence of poverty. Capacity building initiatives will be targeted to the poorest area
councils and communities identifiedwith the highest incidence of poverty by the Ghana Living
Standards Survey (GLSS) and the results of GTZ funded poverty mapping exercise. All rural
enterprises and facilities to be supported by the project to empower community with skills and
create employment will be located inrural communities and must show considerable benefits to
the poor. The project will not finance any facility inaregional capital, or atownconsideredto be
municipal or urban by MLGRD classification. All districts, AC and community development
plans will be developed in a participatory manner and communities will be given the option in
the use of force account in the execution of micro-projects based on agreed threshold for
expenditures. It will be the responsibility of Project management to ensure that micro-projects
are financed through the CBRDP are at the request ofbeneficiary community.

4.      Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design
14.     Two new initiatives were introduced in CBRDP to strengthen the project for better
attainment of the same objectives as those of the VIP. These initiatives are the rural enterprise
and learning centers and community-based integrated natural resources management. The
learning centers will impart skills and knowledge and provide technical assistance inoperation
and maintenance of capital investments and management of community-based enterprises. The
menu of sub-projects has also beenwidened due to popular demand from communities during
the beneficiary assessment survey to include social infrastructure.

15.     Another lesson that was learned from the implementation o f the VIP is that rural
communities have little incentive for undertaking natural resources management practices that
ensure sustainable use of their land resource base. The introduction of the new initiative in
CBRDP is aimed at using the incentive of the provision of rural infrastructure to rural
communities to enhance improved community-based management of natural resources and
environmental conservation through technologies and techniques such as soil and water
conservation and fertility enhancement, using a watershed management approach, establishment
of community forests and improvement and sustainable development of traditional forms of
energy.

16.     The VIP piloted empowerment of rural communities and good governance by training
areas councils to prepare participatory plans and manage public goods. A major thrust o f
CBRDP is building the capacity of area councils and communities with the active participation
of traditional authorities to make them functional in areas of priority setting, planning,
implementation, monitoring and accountability with active participation of civil society and the
private sector

17.     Implementation completion reports (ICR) and their evaluation by OED indicate that
performance o f Bank-financed rural development projects was overall rather poor. Out of 13
projects financed, only 38% (5 projects) received satisfactory rating on outcome, while 46% (6
projects) were moderately satisfactory. Two projects (16%) were rated unsatisfactory. Only 31%
of these projects were rated likely on sustainability. However, 54% and 38% were evaluated to
have, respectively, substantial and moderate impact on institutional development. Incontrast to


                                                  8

this poor performance, the VIP was implementedsuccessfully, and is expectedto receive better
rating inthe ICR, which is underpreparation.

5.      Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
18.      Integration of all communi~-basedrural development projects in Ghana into one
umbrella project financed    under poverty reduction adjustment credits or a stand alone APL or
S I L was considered as ideal. However, it was considered desirable to have a transition phase
over the next 3-4 years to harmonize implementation modalities and procedures.            This i s
expected to begin with implementation of the National Decentralization Action Plan (NDAP)
due to start in 2004 with support from several donors. Second, boththe VIP and the CWSP 2
Phase 1 projects that are being successfully implementedwould endbefore July 1,2004. A 2-3
year hiatus in financing o f similar activities initiated under these projects would disrupt the
institutional capacity that was built and the momentum gained to reach an increasing number of
rural communities throughout the country. It was, therefore, decided to reduce the duration of
the follow-on projects from 5-6 years to four years during which time a clearly defined vision
and strategy for integration and harmonization of all CDD activities under one financing
instrumentwill be prepared. Inthe interim an economic sector work on decentralization will be
carried out to consolidate lessons for future guidance.

19.      Block grants vs individual project jkancing of public goods: Under the VIP, resources
for the development of public infrastructure in the districts were allocated on appraisal of
projects submittedby the DAs on a "first come first served" basis. This process of approving
financing of individual sub-projects was rejected under the CBRDP in favor of block grants
allocated to DAs and ACs to provide investment support for the provision o f not only rural
infrastructure, but also capacity building and other services. Block grants are favored as being
more equitablebetweendistricts. Approving financing will be basedon the annualwork planso f
the DAs and ACs, arrived at in a participatory manner at the AC level, with a guideline on
selectionof sub-projects that meet the eligibility criteria establishedunder the project.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)
20.      Expedited processing o f the CBRDP by the World Bank may have made it difficult for
other development partners to provide firm financial commitment. However, they have had the
opportunity to influence the designof the project and there is still ample time and flexibility for
their participation. This is not unusualinproject processinginGhana.Evenincases where most
development partners participate in WB appraisal missions, their processing takes varying time
tracks leading to their loadGrant effectivenessmuchlater than the Bank's.

21.      Agence Frangaise Development (AFD) participated inthe appraisal mission and gave an
indication of additional financial support of between Euro 8-10 million whilst IFAD will be
fielding separate missions to evaluate VIP, on the basis of which their level of support to the
CBRDP will be determined. It is anticipated that the 3 DPs and others will participate in the
project's financing andwill sign subsidiary agreementswiththe Borrower at a later stage.




                                                  9

2.      Institutionaland implementationarrangements(see Annex 6)
22.     ~ationalLevel Management Project organization and management will be similar to
those of the      VIP. Project implementation will be mainstreamed into existing statutory
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) responsiblefor rural development. The MLGRD
i s responsible for decentralization and rural development in Ghana. It has established the inter-
sectoral committee on decentralization and a Secretariat to coordinate and oversee the
implementation o f NDAP. Oversight of the project implementation will be the responsibility of
the MLGRD and will be assisted inthis capacity by a Project Steering Committee (PSC). The
PSC to be chaired by the Minister for MLGRD, will comprise Chief ExecutivesDirectors from
the ministries and agencies listed in Annex 6. The PSC will meet quarterly during the 1'` year
and semi-annually in subsequent years and will have the responsibility for overall guidance,
including: (i) guidance; (ii)
               policy                coordination and harmonization of activities of agencies and
ministries involved in project implementation; (iii) and approval of annual work plans,
                                                     review
budget and reports; and (iv) assessment of progress towards attainment o f project development
objectives.

23.     At present, MLGRD lacks capacity for project implementation and financial
management. It will have to be assistedand strengthened to mainstreamproject implementation
over the duration of the project. Consequently, the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit
(RICU), which successfully managed the VIP will provide management assistance. The RICU
will, inthe process of implementation, ensure that appropriateMLGRDdepartmentsthe RPCUs;
DAs, ACs and communities are strengthenedto carry out their statutory functions. The national
RICU staff position will be strengthened to include a Rural Enterprises Development and a
Natural Resources Management Specialists to coordinate the implementation of the rural
enterprise and learning centers and the community-based natural resource management
components ofthe project.

24.     The RICU will maintain the existing core staff including, the National Coordinator who
will report directlyto the ChiefDirector, MLGRDandact as the secretaryto the PSC. Assistance
to be provided by RICU to the MLGRD will include project management and coordination,
planning and budgeting, financial management, managing the IDA special account in
compliance with World BankFinancialManagementGuidelines, ensuring procurementcomplies
withthe country's procurement guidelines, monitoring andevaluation, infrastructure engineering
andmicro-project appraisal.

25.     Regional Management and Zonal Coordination. The RPCU has responsibility, as a
secretariat of the Regional Coordinating Council (RCC), to coordinate and monitor and evaluate
all district development programs. Membershipof the RPCUs is defined in the "Guidelinesfor
the ~perationali~ation  of District and Regional Planning Coordinating Units." The RPCUs has
recently been constituted, is poorly resourcedand lack implementation capacity to carry out their
statutory obligations and to provide technical support to the districts. Consequently, the project
will maintain the existing four Zonal RICUs, which will recruit an additional institutions
specialist and an engineer per region to strengthen the capacity of the RPCUs. The functions of
the zonal RICUs will be similar to those of the national RICU but will be limited to providing
support to the RPCUs and to a limited extent the DPCUs. The RICUs will strengthen and



                                                 10

transfer capacities to the RPCU under the overall guidance of the RCCs to coordinate, appraise
and approve district proposals and carry out quality assurance. Relevanttechnical departments
suchas Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWST), GhanaIrrigationDevelopment Authority
(GIDA), DepartmentofFeeder Roads, etc., will providetechnical backstoppingto the RPCUs as
pertheir respective statutory obligations.

26.     District Level ~anage~ent. focal point of project implementation will be the DAs
                                      The
ACs and Communities and their traditional authorities. The Local Government Law (Act 462),
which established the DAs, makes each district responsible for development activities at the
district level. Each district has an Executive Committee headed by the District Chief Executive
with specialized departments for planning, budgeting, finance and administration, which
constitute the DPCU. The DPCUs have project implementation experience, having successfully
attained the capacity through the VIP and other donor funded projects, and will be responsible
for projectimplementation andmanagement ofmicro-projects andinvestment funds onbehalf of
ACs and communities. They will prepare a participatory three yearly development plans in line
with the MediumTerm Economic Framework (MTEF) and annual work and procurement plans
which will provide details of financing gaps for their rural infrastructure need. Finally, they will
submit proposalsto the RPCUs, who will evaluate the proposals together with the Zonal RICU
offices. The roles and responsibilities of the RICUs and the various offices as well as their
relationships with line agencies and ministries will be defined in the PIM. Ultimately, it is the
responsibility of beneficiary communities to ensure proper implementation and maintenance of
miro-projects.

3.      Monitoringand evaluation of outcomeslresults (see Technical Annex 3)
27.     Monitoringand evaluation is an integral part of the project and will be part at all levels of
project implementation. ACs, DAs regional and national and linked regularly and directly with
decision making at each level of operational activity and the policy making processes of the
MLGRD. These activities will be directly undertakenby the communities, area councils, the
DPCU and the RPCUs as outlined inthe 44G~jdeljnes the ~perati~nalization District and
                                                       for                          of
Regional Planning Coordinating Units" prepared by the NDPC and MLGRD and the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of MLGRD, zonal and regional RICUs. The project results
framework with the indicators elaborated inthe PIM will form the basis for monitoringresults.
An assessment of project status will be submitted semi-annually by the MLGRD. Other M&E
activities would include baseline studies for each micro-project beneficiary, annual technical
audits, beneficiary assessment before mid-termreview, and an independentimpact assessment.

4.    Sustainability
28.      The sustainability of components of the project beyond the implementation period is
considered likely. Implementation arrangements, financial management and procurement
procedures are mainstreamed through statutory government agencies responsible for rural
development. The Government has provided the necessary legal and regulatory framework by
the enactment of the Local Government Act 462 o f 1993, the National Development Planning
(Systems) Act 480 of 1994, the Procurement Act signed by the Presidenton December 31,2003
and the Local Government Service Act also signed by the President on December 31, 2003.
These agencies andprocedures stipulated inthe laws will continue to exist andperform functions
described inthe project document beyond the life of the project. Similarly, provision o f credit



                                                11

for private goods is routed through existing rural financial institutions with the capacity to
manage loans, approved by the Bank of Ghana. Furthermore, the completion of the National
Decentralization Action Plan, and the establishment of a Decentralization Secretariat and the
Presidential Oversight Committee are strong indications to the Government's commitment to
pursuethe decentralization agenda.

29.      The project design lays emphasis on ownership and training for the maintenance of
facilities provided. Consequently, sustainability of micro-projects is also assured so far as those
trained to maintain the facilities continue to receive adequate back-up support from the DAs,
ACs, relevant agencies and private providers. The potential threat of the lack of maintenanceof
feeder roads exists; however, the project will not add on to the current feeder road network but
rehabilitate those that have been identified by communities and are incorporated in the
developmentplans of the districts for annual remedial works.

5. Criticalrisks andpossiblecontroversialaspects


             RISK                     RISK MITIGATION            R I S K RATINGWITH
                                          MEASURES                     MITIGATION


TO PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVE
To ComponentResults
Weak capacity ofMLGRD           The RuralInfrastructure        S
andRPCUsto implementthe         CoordinatingUnitwill
project                         strengthen the capacity of
                                MLGRD andRPCUsover the
                                four-vear Deriod
Use ofproject Fundsfor non      Strict accountingrules will beM
projectactivitiesby DAs         appliedandthe WCU will be
                                strengthenedto conduct
                                regularinspectionofaccounts.
                                InadditiondefaultingDAs
                                will notbe eligiblefor further
                                project financing
Lack of effectiveparticipation The Apex Bankwill sign an       M
by financial intermediaries     MOUwith NGOsandother
                                service providersto provide
                                financial services to the
                                remote andinaccessiblepoor
                                areas.
OverallRiskRating                                              M
H=High
S = Substantial
M=Modest
N=Negligible




                                                   12

6.     Loanlcreditconditionsand covenants
Conditionsof Board Presentation:None
Conditionof Effectiveness
    (a) Adoption of aProject ImplementationManual inthe form andsubstance satisfactory to
        IDA, specifying, inter alia, performance indicators, proceduresandother arrangements
        for the purpose o f implementationofthe project;
    (b) Appointment ofindependentfirms oflocal auditors onterms ofreferencesatisfactoryto
        IDA inaccordancewiththeproceduresinSectionI1of Schedule 3 ofthe DCA; and
    (c) Transfer of the VIP FundAccount from Bank of Ghanato ARB Apex Bank

Conditionsbefore Appraisal
Disclosure of the environmental analysis and guidelines (environmental and social management
framework) by the Borrower to the public within Ghana and a Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF)*

Conditionsof Disbursement
    (a) Appointment of Key contract staff to strengthen the RICU
    (b) Signing of subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the IDA between MOFEP and the
        ARB Apex Bank on the modalities for the management of the micro-credit scheme
        includingconditions for on-lending to RFIs.

 Specific~mplementationConditions:
    (a) Not later than September 1, 2005, the Controller and Accountant General will second a
         qualified professional accountant to manage the Financial Management Unit of the
        MLGRD. It was agreed during negotiations that the project will finance the recruitment
         of a qualified professional accountantto managethe unituntilOctober 30,2005.
    (b) The district assembliessign anMOUwiththe MLGRDto abide by the eligibility criteria
         andconditions for the utilizationofcredit proceeds.
    (c) Establishand maintaina satisfactory financial managementsystem

APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancialanalyses
30.     Out of the five components ofthe project, Capacity Buildingtargetedat District
Assemblies, Area Councils andcommunities as well as costs ofproject managementdo not
generate direct economic benefits, while the four remaining components have varying degrees o f
measurableeconomic benefits. However, the demand-drivenandflexible nature ofthe project
renders them less amenable to standardquantitative cost-benefit or least-cost analysis. Typical
models ofthe various activities withquantifiable direct economic benefits (dams, dugouts,
irrigated plots, feeder roads, acquisition of productive capital equipmentsuchas ,pumps, food
processingequipment, etc.) were constructedto estimate cost andbenefits. Inaddition, itwas
assumed that 65% of the training activities ofthe other components contribute to direct
economic benefits. The globaleconomic rate o freturn (ERR) to the quantifiable benefits was
estimatedto be48%; with a correspondingNPV of $94 million.

31.     TheInfras~ucturefor a~icu~turul      development. Construction andor rehabilitationof
dams, dugouts, feeder roads andvillage access tracks will be financed under this component. O f



                                                  13

these, investmentindugs and dams for irrigationhas the highestbenefits with benefitcost (BC)
ratio of 1.4 andERRof 34%. Investmentinwindmillsyields aBC ratio of 1.5 andERRof
20%. The project will finance spot improvementof over 200 kmof feeder roadsand 500 k.m. of
village tracks andtrails with BC ratio of2.6 and5.4, respectively andanERRof over 30%. The
componentwill finance equipmentfor animal traction andsingle axle handtractors. The
estimatedBC of donkey carts is 1.4, of bullock cart 1.7 andofpower tiller 1.4. The
correspondingERR are 26%, 46% and38%.

32.      Rural enterprises and learning centers. All the micro-projects plannedfor financing
underthis componentare financially viable withBCratio situatedbetween1.1 and3.4 andERR
between 14% and 31%. About 0.5% of the component's cost will be invested indrying floors,
silos, kraals for animals andinfish landing sites. All these investmentsare useful andimportant
for arural economy, but their economic value was difficult to estimate.

33.      Infrastruct~refor social and human development. The BC ratio for borehole construction
andrehabilitationis 1.7 and 1.2andERRof22%and 18%, respectively. These benefits result
from economy oftime due to shorteningofthe distancebetweenthe householdandthe sourceof
water.

34.      The remaining investment under this component will be spent on construction or
rehabilitation of healthclinics, nutritioncenters, nurses' quarters, classrooms, andhousehold
toilets. All these activities have an important social impact and substantialpositive long-term
economic consequences. However, their detailedbenefits could not be estimated.

35.      Community-based natural resource management. The component wouldpromote
sustainableuse ofnatural resourcesandenhance community involvement innatural resource
conservationthroughpromotionoftheir integrated managementanddevelopment of natural
resourcebasedenterprises. Only 65% o fthe componentcostswould be investedinactivities
withmeasurablebenefits. Natural resourcebasedcottageindustry, tree plantation, eco-tourism
equipmentandbushfirefighting are among suchactivities. However, becausethese are
relatively new inGhanaandthe choice o fthe micro-projects will be decideduponduring project
implementation, benefits were estimatedfor a sample of five activities: teak-tree plantation, teak
nursery, snail farming, grasscutter farming andbeekeeping. According to the available data, all
these activities are highly profitable with BC cost ratios ranging between 1.8 and 9.8, andERR
between 76% and 135%.

36.      Sensitivitv Analysis. The project's ERRis robust to large changes inproject costs (20%
increase) andbenefits (205 decrease). The ERRofthe individualcomponents also remained
over the threshold of 12% ifeither benefits were reducedor input costs increasedby 20%.
~n~astructurefor social and human development was not viable whenthe costs were increased
over 25% or the benefitswere decreasedbythe same value. A proper pricingfor the water
provided by the activities financed by this component would ensure more resistance to these
chocks.

37.      Increaseof costs of inputs by 33% or drop by 57% will affect the viability o fthe Rural
enterprise and learning centers since the component's activities require more investment in



                                                  14

construction andinprocessingequipment. Tighter construction managementandutilizationof
highlevel of installed capacity of production equipmentwould increasethe viability of the
component.

38.     Activities financed under the infrastructure for agricultural development component are
relatively robust withstanding larger changes ininputprices andinbenefits since their
productivity depends largely onthe natural soil fertility (irrigation schemes) or geographic
conditions (roads, water availability) bothindependentof economic factors. Finally, the
communi~-basednatural resource management component, withstands higher levels of external
shocks as itdemands little investment.


FinancialAnalysis.
39.     The contribution ofthe governmentinfinancing the project is US$8.93 million, which
represents the taxes and duties to be paidunderthe project. There is, therefore, no fiscal impact
on the government's budget. District assembliesand area councils are expectedto contribute
about $2 million, representing 10% ofthe public infrastructure investment. The subprojectsthat
will be financed are includedinthe work program andbudgetofthese local governments. This
10%contribution will be financed from the district assembly common fund, thus not requiring
additional source of revenue. The private goods financed underthe infrastructure for agricultural
developmentcomponents are appraisedbythe rural financial intermediariesandvettedfor their
financial viability. Therefore subprojects that are not viable would not be supported.

2. Technical
40.     The maininfrastructure elements ofthe project would be similarto those supportedunder
the VIP where their operational suitability was proven. The types of roads, bore holes small scale
irrigation systems, market structures, small scale processing equipment to be supported by the
project are appropriateto the Ghanaianconditions andtheir cost-effectivenesswould be ensured
through the system o f individual micro-project appraisalswhich would require economic rates o f
returnofover 15% ex ante for more than 90% ofthe infrastructure investments.

3. Fiduciary
41.      Financial managementcapacity ofMLGRDwas assessed and found to be weak. To
ensure that the Bank's financial managementrequirementi s met, MLGRDwill appoint a
professionally qualified accountant to manage the accounts ofthe entire ministry including all
project funds. The financial managementcapacity is being further strengthened through training
of staff andprovision of equipment.Independentauditors acceptableto IDA would behiredto
audit the project financial statements, including activities at the district level. District level
accounting staff will also benefit from training underthe project inthe areas o f accounting and
finance.

42.      The District Assemblies have considerable experience in implementing Bank and other
donor financed projects (including the predecessor project, VIP) and have the capacity to carry
out procurementunder the project. Underthe predecessorproject, a RICU with 4 Zonal Offices
was created. Under this project, the role of the RICU will continue, with emphasis on mainly
coordination andmentoring of staff of the District Assemblies.



                                                 15

4. Social
43.     The project will offer opportunities for communities, inparticular very poor ones, to
develop andbuildwealth. Constraints associatedwith this opportunity pertainto the need for
communities, inthe case of private goods, to pay back the value ofthe assets. Giventhe level of
poverty o fthe communities, this is often very difficult to realize for communities, howeverthe
overall impacts o fthe project are positive, with few associatedrisks. The sub-projects will
generally reducerisk (e.g., of crop failure) to communities. A large proportionof sub-projects
will improve healthandsanitation conditions ofaffectedpopulations through improvedwater
supply, accessto clinics andtransport.

44.     The project, beingcommunity-driven, andcutting across all economic classes, is
demand-drivenandparticipatory innature, therefore unlikelyto adverselyaffect communities.
Resettlementis largely absent, but aResettlementPolicy Framework (RPF), consistent with the
Government o f Ghana's andthe World Bank's environmental policies has beenpreparedto
forestall landtake or loss of access to resources. The project aims at the poorestandmost needy
communities, selectingthese through Area Councils that have ample local knowledge. District
Assembliesinturnselect Areas onthe basis ofneed; thus, the most needy communities are
selectedto beproject recipients.

45.     Supervision, monitoring andevaluation ofthe social conditions ofthe affected
populations will be carried out according to the overall supervision of the project: through
consultation with stakeholders, by specific studies, andby regular project evaluations, in
particular the mid-termand final evaluations(ICR).

5. Environment
46.     The environmental impactsofthe CBRDP are expectedto beminimaland, consistent
withthe Governmentof Ghana's andthe WorldBank's environmental policies, the project has
preparedanEnvironmental andSocialManagementFramework (ESMF). The ESMFis a
mechanismthat will screeneachsub-project for environmental impacts as it is initiated, and
suggest mitigationmeasures.

47.     Most environmental impacts ofthe project are either neutral (e.g., constructionof a
village marketplace) or positive (e.g., storage of rainwater inshallow dams). Natural resource
managementunder the CBRDP will further enhance the environment (e.g., tree planting).
Agricultural projects underthe VIP show that environmental aspects were taken into
consideration(deforestation didnot occur at irrigation sites). Thus, it canbe saidthat the
CBRDP, being a continuation ofthe VIP, will have overall positive impacts onthe environment.

48.     The largest potentially negativeimpact arises from the upgradingoftracks androads,
through the construction of borrow pits andby permittingaccess to sensitiveareas. Borrow pits
are seldom rehabilitated after the endo f civil works, andare often subsequentlyexploited by
non-project related groups (e.g., private buildersandcontractors), over which the project has no
control. Increasedaccess leadsto increaseddeforestation andpoaching. The CBRDP therefore
has to take specific measures to ensure that either these aspects are addressed underthe project,
or bythirdparties e.g., Ministry ofTransport (borrow pits) andDepartmentofForestry/Wildlife
(logging, poaching).



                                                  16

49.     Project teams will carry out monitoring ofenvironmental conditions. At DA level, DPCU
teams would be assistedby the EPA to carry out monitoring. Specific studies will assess the
environmental impactof the project.

6. Safeguard policies

              a. Safeguards screening category: S2
              b. Environmental screeningcategory: B
              C.  Key safeguardpolicy issues: no major issues. Frameworks inplace on a "just in
                  case" basis.
              d. Mainresults ofsafeguardspolicy-related studies: nomajor impacts; those impacts
                  that pertainto the project are given in4. and5. above.
              e. Consultationshave occurred, but mainly on project designwith only very low
                  safeguards considerations.
              f. Safeguards studies were madeavailableatthe InfoShopinMarch2004.
              5   Safeguards studies were made available inthe cooperatingcountry inApril 2004.

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                         Yes                    No
  Environmental Assessment (OPIBPIGP 4.0 1)                                            Ex1
  Natural Habitats (OPIBP 4.04)                                                         [I                   I:[II
                                                                                                               X
  PestManagement        (u                                                              [I
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.1 1)                               [I                   [x 1
                                                                                                             [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                                                [XI                    [I
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                  [I                   [XI
  Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                                  [I                   [x 1
  Safety o fDams(OPIBP 4.37)                                                            [I                   [x 1
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPIBPIGP 7,60)*                                             [I                   [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPIBPIGP 7.50)                                   [I                   [x 1

LikeotherBank financedprojects, CDD projects mustcomply withthe 10SafeguardPolicies
andthe policy onDisclosure of Operational Information. Although OP 4.01; 4.12 and4.36 could
betriggered, no major environmental andsocial impacts are likely to occur: Mostpotential
impacts are likely to beneutral (construction o fa village marketplace) or positive or provide
environmental services (e.g. storage ofrainwater inshallow dams, rehabilitation of degraded
landscapes. Compliance with safeguardpolicies is achievedthrough the preparation for
screeningand assessing the potential environmental and social impacts for future sub-projects
(Annex 10).

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
The project does notrequire any exceptionsfrom Bankpolicies.




* By supportingtheproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal deiermi~tionof theparties' claims on the
disputedareas


                                                            17

                      Annex 1:CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
                        GHANA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment
Background.

50.     Ghana has madeprogresson poverty reduction over the past decade, butconsiderable
effort will still be requiredto achieve a sustainablereversalinits post independence slide in
living standards. Overall, the incidenceof poverty has fallen from 50% in 1992to 43% in 1999.
However, this reduction has been inequitable across socio-economic groups andgeographically
uneven. While overall social indicators haveimproved, educationand health services have
favored urbanareas rather than rural areas. Foodcrop farmers, a significant majority of whom
are women, have fared far less, particularly those inthe coastalandnorthern savanna zones
where poverty is chronic andpersistent. Uneven quality of service delivery and shortageof
funding have contributedto increasingpoverty inthese areas. Inadequatedevelopmento frural
infrastructure have disconnectedhouseholds, particularlyinthe three northernregions, from
economic growth taking place inthe rest ofthe country, with limitedopportunities to escape
from poverty becauseo ftheir limitedaccessto education, marketsandpublic services.

 Ghana'sPoverty ReductionStrategy:

51.     The Government, withthe helpofits developmentpartners, has formulated the Ghana
Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) that aligns its poverty reduction goals withthose ofthe
MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs). The overarching goal ofthis strategy isto achieve
sustainableand equitable growth, acceleratedpoverty reduction, andthe protectionofthe
vulnerable and excludedwithina decentralizeddemocratic environment. The GPRS is anchored
andarticulated aroundfive major issues that have constrainedsocio-economic developmentin
the past. These are: (i)  macroeconomic instability; (ii)sluggish growth inproduction and
employment; (iii)    weak humanresourcecapacity; (iv) lack of effective specialprograms that
target the vulnerable andexcluded; and (v) poor governance. The government has made these
tackling issues the five pillarsof its long-term socio-economicdevelopment andpoverty
reductionagenda.

52,     MacroeconomicStability and IncreasedProduction and Employment. Programs and
actionsthat address these two pillars ofthe GPRS target acceleratedeconomic growth over the
mediumto longterm. The growth strategy focuses first on ensuringmacroeconomic stability
anddeepeningpoverty reduction. Reducingdependence on domestic borrowing, andthereby
reducingpressure on interest rates, and strengtheningpublic expendituremanagementwill be
key policy actions for macroeconomic stability. To raise growth rates, the government intendsto
tackle the existing constraints to private sector-ledgrowth, andharness the sources of growth so
that newinvestmentand employment opportunities are generated. To catalyze new sources o f
growth andto reduce the risk of international shocks, developmentprograms would seek to
diversify the economy andaddress low growth inagriculture andnontraditional sectors, while
improving naturalresourceand environmental managementto ensure long-term sustainability.

53.     Policy andinstitutional reforms will be undertaken to improve access to and security of
land, to streamlinethe legal andjudicial systems as well as the business regulatory framework in
order to reduce the time and cost of business transactions. Steps will be undertakento develop


                                                  18

an efficient financial intermediation system and creatingmarkets for the transfer of assets suchas
stocks, bondsand shares. Efforts will be made to improve Ghana's international competitiveness
to foster increasednon-traditional exports. Programsto accelerateinfrastructural improvements
and serviceswill be undertakenwith private sector participation. Furthersupport to the private
sector would be provided by formulating an appropriatetrade policy, developing
entrepreneurshipschemes, promoting agri-business, andincreasing foreign anddomestic direct
investment innon-traditional sectors such as ICT andtourism.

54.      WeakHuman Resource Capacity and Lack of Programs Targetingthe Vulnerableand
Excluded, These third andfourth pillars ofthe GPRS aim at achieving the humandevelopment
targets under the MDGs, With 40 percentofthe population living below the poverty line, overall
poverty reduction arising from acceleratedgrowth will be complementedwith specific targeting
ofvulnerable and excludedgroups. Inaddition, programswill be intensifiedto increase access
to sustainableand safe water and sanitation services, combat the rising incidence of HIVlAIDS
and stigmatization ofthe victims, achieve quality universal education, reduce child mortality and
improve maternal mortality by targeting interventions especially to deprivedareas andto poor
andvulnerable persons. These humandevelopment issues will betackledthrough specific
interventions, sector strategies andplans, policy actions andprograms, as well as studies to help
inform interventions and better target the poor.

55.      Poor Governance. The fifth GPRSpillar, ensuring good governance through
accountability andtransparency, seeks to builda democratic and inclusive state and improve
leadershipandmanagementskills as well as public sector management for more efficient service
delivery ina decentralizedsetting. The goal is to empowerthe citizenry to participate effectively
inthedevelopmentprocessandholdgovernmentandserviceprovidersaccountable. Improving
governancerests uponthe effective application o f legal, regulatory andinstitutional frameworks
to facilitate accountability of state institutions, the private sector and civil society groups.

56.      Inorderto buildademocraticandinclusive state, the oversight capabilities ofParliament
andthe other constitutionally-mandated entities will be strengthenedandthe citizenry will be
empoweredto participate effectively inthe developmentprocess to enhance transparency and
accountability andreduce corruption. One of the key hindrancesto effective parliamentary
oversight is inadequatefinancial, physical and humanresources. A National Governance
Program has beenset up under which strategic plans for all the oversight institutions andthe
legal sector have been prepared. Elementsofthese plans are currently under implementation.
To achieve the goal o f empowering peopleto participate effectively inthe developmentprocess,
access to information that will guide them intheir participation inthe developmentprocess will
be significantly improved. The governmenthas prepareda Development Communication
EnhancementProgram that seeks to enhance communication with the citizenry, andthe Freedom
of Information and Whistle Blower bills have beenapproved by Cabinet. To enhance
transparencyand accountability andreduce corruption, the government is preparedto implement
its anti-corruption planthrough the GhanaAnti-Corruption Coalition. A diagnostic study of anti-
corruption agencies is also plannedto prioritize resource allocations.

57.      To improve public sector management for better service delivery, leadershipand
management skills, fiduciary management, M&E, and service delivery at the locallevelwill be
strengthened. The inadequacyandineffectiveness of the professional, managerialandleadership


                                                     19

skills inthe public service will be addressed, so that skills are effectively translatedinto outputs
andoutcomes. Inorder to enhance the efficiency ofthe public service, the governmentintends
to designandimplementahumanresourcemanagementpolicy andsystem, including apublic
sector pay policy that will address the recruitment andretention of critical public service
positions. To improve fiduciary management, aimed at the efficiency andeffectiveness of the
system, the governmenthas developedandis committedto implementing a short term action
planonpublic financial managementinaddition to implementingthe 2003 Public Procurement
Act.

58.     To improve service delivery at the local level, local governmentswill be enabledto
deliver services andmanage their own development. Underthe decentralization strategy
containedinthe GPRS, power will be transferredto the local governments.The GPRS states
inter alia:



" Theaim must be to decomposepower to the District to the extent that Assemblies are in
eflective and total control of their departments and staflwithin the context of relevant
legislation. tim mate District departments must have the capacity to carry out all District level
programs andprojectsfundedfiom their own resourcesand by central government. In the latter
case decisions on resource utilization including priorities and intra-District location must lie
within the local authority. "

59.      The LocalGovernment ServiceAct 2003 provides the legal basisfor this transformation.
Inlinewithdecentralizationobjective, eachAssembly willimplementits ownshare ofthe
project. To enablethem do so andto ensure that the provisions ofthe Credit Development
Agreement are being fulfilled acomprehensive capacity buildingand strengtheningof
appropriatelocal governmentinstitutions, namely, the RPCU, DPCU, ACs andcommunities will
be undertaken.

 60.     The government's approachis embodiedinthe National DecentralizationAction Plan
(NDAP), whichhas four mainprogram areas -policy andinstitutional arrangementfor
decentralizationimplementation, district developmentfinding facility, capacity building and
humanresource development, andpartnership andparticipation for accountable local
governance. HIPC finds have beendistributedto all districts for implementation of
developmentprojects at the local level.

61,      The Bank andother DPs are providingassistance, mostly through mechanisms of
decentralizedservice deliveryinsector relatedprojects (See Annex 2). The CBRDP will
contribute to this effort and will seek to provide the framework for the harmonization,
coordinationandoperationalization o fthe DistrictDevelopment Funding Facility.

 Poverty and Rural Infrastructure
62.      The profile ofpoverty inGhanashows that itis largely ruralandagricultural: 54 percent
ofthose living inpoverty are food-crop farmers. Poverty also has a strong regionalbias, linkedto
the relative naturalresourceendowment (climate, water, soils andvegetation) o f the three agro-
ecological zones ofthe country. Boththe incidence anddepthof poverty are found to be greater
intheruralsavannahthaninany other partsofthe country, butmajorpocketsofpoverty also



                                                 20

exist inthe forest zone, the coastal beltandinlarge urbancenters such as Accra andKumasi.
Genderis also important dimensionofpoverty, especiallyinnorthernparts ofthe country where
sharp distinctions betweenthe income-earningroles ofmenandwomen exist. Women also bear
the disproportionate share ofthe burdenofbeingpoor -they are also obliged to spenda great
deal o ftime not only working on family enterprises, but also nurturing children andperforming
other important household tasks, such as cooking andfetching water andfirewood, These factors
have strong implications for poverty targeting interventions not only onthe basis of geography
but gender.

63.     Giventhe strong links betweenthe poor state ofrural infrastructure andruralpoverty,
improvingbasic rural infrastructure onwhichthe poor dependcan act as catalyst inaccelerating
rural development. For example improvement inrural access roads leadto reducedtransport
costs, increasedaccess to marketsandmarket information and loweredpost harvest losses, These
inturnincreaseprofitabilityandspurexpansioninagricultural output. Wheninvestmentinrural
transport is linkedto complimentary facilities such as rural water supply, improved health
delivery services and educational facilities, important synergiesresult that leadto significant
multipliereffects inruralcommunities: improvedhealth enables the poor to engage inproductive
activities such as farming, which inturnincreaseincomesandfood security.

64.     One ofthe main concernswithrural infrastructure is its maintenance.The sustainability
ofruralinfrastructure development depends to a large extent onthe levelof community
ownership, beginning with their active participation inplanning, developing, prioritizingand
implementing programs andculminating intheir assumptionof direct responsibility for
operations andmanagement.Proposingbasic solutions to these issues is the basic objective of
this operation.




                                                 21

                   Annex2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankandlorother Agencies
                                     GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment

PROJECT NAME           PROJECT OBJECTIVE                  Sector        DONOR      PROJECT        IMPLEMENT OED
                                                         Issues         Agency     CostlDuration  ING          RatingLatest
                                                         Addressed                                AGENCY       PSR
SocialInvestmentFund
(SIF)
RuralEnterprisesProjectTo alleviatepovertyand improve RuralPoverty IFAD            USD29.274m     Ministryof
PhaseI1                living conditionsinthe rural areas Alleviation                             Environment&
                       andespecially increase the
                           u                                                        8 years       Science
                       incomesof womenand                                          (2004-2012)
                       vulnerablegroupsthrough
                       increasedselfandwage
                       employment
NorthemRegion          To improvethe livelihoodsand      RuralPoverty              USD59.58m      Ministry of
PovertyReduction       livingconditionsofpoorrural       Alleviation                              Local
Programme              communities with emphasis on                                 6 years       Govemment
(NORPREP)              women andother vulnerable                                    (2004-2010)   andRural
                       groupsthroughdeepeningand                                                  Development
                       broadeningruraldevelopment                                  NR
                       servicesandindividual selfhelp
                       capacity
Local Govemance        Supportto district development     Govemancel GTZ            EURO 18.0m    Ministry of
PovertyReduction       planningandmanagementof            Decentralizati                          Local
SupportProgramme       economic, socialand                on                        Iyears        Govemment
                       environmentalinfrastructure                                  (2004-2011)   andRural
                                                                                                  Development
                                                                                    AIR        BA
Village Infrastructure To enhance qualityof life of rural Govemance IDA, DAs,       USD 60.0m     Ministry of   S
Project                communities by empowering          Service       IFAD, GOG,                Foodand
                       them to identify, plan, implement Delivery       KFW,        5 years       Agriculture
                       andmaintainsmallvillage-level                    Communities (1998-2004)
                       infrastructureinvestmentandto
                       ensure the sustainabilityof                                  National
                       poverty-reducinginterventions
                       andto support the government
                       strategyof decentralization of
                       development responsibilitiesto
                       DistrictAssemblies andother
                       localgovernmententities.

DANIDA Supportto       To providecapacity buildingand Govemancel DANIDA             USD7.0m        Ministry of
District Assemblies    development timding                Decentralizati                           Local
(DSDA)                                                    on                        5 years        Govemment
                                                                                    (1999-2004)    andRural
                                                                                                   Development
                                                                                    VIR, UER


DistrictCapacity       To build capacity for              Govemancel CIDA           C$ 6.0m        Ministry of
BuildingProject        decentralizedmanagement            Decentralizati                           Local
(DISCAP)                                                  on)                       6 years        Govemment
                                                                                    (2001-2008)    andRural
                                                                                                   Development
                                                                                    NIR, UER, UWR




                                                                     22

Districtwide Assistance To providesupport to district   Governance CIDA         C$ 15.0m      Ministry of
Program                 developmentfundingand           decentralizati                        Local
                        capacitybuilding                odService               6 years       Government
                                                        delivery                (2004-2009)   andRural
                                                                                              Development
                                                                                24 DAs inNR
                                                                                UER& UWR
Brong Ahafo District    To providetechnicalassistanceto DecentralizatiDFID      EURO 1.4m     Ministry of
SupportProject          DAsto plananddeliver services on)                                     Local
                        to DAs                                                  6 years       Government
                                                                                (2004-2009    andRural
                                                                                              Development
                                                                                BA     4DAs
DistrictCapacity        To buildcapacity for DAs and    Governance UNICEF       6 years       Ministryof
Enhancement             communities inplanningand       Decentralizati          (2000-2005    Local
Programme               budgeting                       on                      UERNR         Government
                                                                                              andRural
                                                                                              Development
URBAN 5 Project         To ensuresustainabledeliveryof Service        AFD, WDF, USD22.30m     Ministry of   S
                        adequate urbaninfrastructureand Delivery      DAs                     Local
                        services, particularlyinunder-                          4 years       Government
                        served secondw towns                                    (2001-2004)   andRural
                                                                                              Development
Community Water and                                     Service                 USD25.0m                    S
SanitationProjectI1                                     Delivery                7 years
                                                                                (1999-2005)

UrbanEnvironment        To improveurbanliving            Service      NDF, A D  UER            Ministry of
SanitationProjectI1     conditionsinregardto sanitation, Delivery               NR             Local
                        drainage, vehicular access, and                                        Govemment
                        solidwaste managementina                                               andRural
                        sustainablefashion, with special                                       Development
                        emphasis onthe poor.



         NR=Northern,AIR=Ashanti,BA =BrongAhafo, VIR =Volta, UER=UpperEast, UWR=UpperWest




                                                                   23

    Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment

                                                 ResultsFramework


Hierarchy of Objectives                    Outcome Indicators                          Use of Results Information

Sector-related CAS Goal:                   Sector Indicators:
                                                                                        MoFED and MLGRD integratethe
Reducepoverty and enhancethe quality       No ofDistricts which have benefitedfrom     findings into the criteria uponwhich
o f life of beneficiary rural communities. all 5 componentsofthe CBRDP                 the DACF allocationsare made

                                           The statusofthe populationofthose districts
                                           relative to the nationalpoverty line
Project Development Objectives             Outcome Indicators:                         Use of Results Information

The project will strengthenthe capacity         80% ofexecutingand beneficiary local   Gaugeperformanceofprogram
o f ruralpopulation to enhance their            governmentunits: DPCUs, ACsand
quality of life by improving their              communitiesundertakeparticipatory      Gauge the implementationof
productiveassets, rural infrastructure          planning inaccordance with NDPC        government's decentralization
andaccess to key support services from          guidelines                             strategy
privateand public sources.                      80% of all participating DAs andACs
                                                meetthe transparency and financial     For impactassessment
                                                accountabilityrequirements for
                                                Financial Administration and
                                                ProcurementActs
                                                80% of all participating DAs andACs
                                                and communitiesare able to implement
                                                their plansand deliver servicesdevolved
                                                to them inaccordancewith LGA 462
                                                80% ofparticipation WCUs ,DPCUs,
                                                ACs and beneficiary communities are
                                                able to monitor and evaluate
                                                developmentplans
                                                %ofall participating DAsandACs
                                                whose ruralpopulations benefit from
                                                micro-projects supportedunder eachof
                                                the 5 components
                                                Quality of life as measuredby income,
                                                accessto water, educationandhealth
                                                facilities, ruralroadsof 80% of
                                                beneficiariesimproved by 15%




                                                              24

[ntermediateResults                     ResultsIndicators                            Use of OutcomeMonitoring

                                                                                                                  ~~




[a) InstitutionalStrengtheningand       % of RPCUS receivedcapacitybuildingto        Yr 2 information usedfor policy
    CapacityBuilding:                   strengthentheir functional performanceby    formulation, programmingand
                                        2006                                        iecision-making at various local
Strengthen the capacity and skills of                                               government levels
various levels of decentralizedlocal
governmentunits, private and public         80% ofbeneficiary local government
sector institutions and NGOs to deliver     units and serviceprovidersreceived
servicesto ruralcommunities.                capacitybuildingto strengthen their
                                            functional performanceby 2006.
                                            100ACs equippedwith participatory
                                            planning skills
                                            Skills ofat least NGOs, CBOs and
                                            serviceproviders strengthenedby 2007
                                            Community facility managementteams
                                            trained inefficient managemento f
                                            community projectsby 2007.
                                            Groups and individuals trained inbasic
                                            entrepreneurialor businessdevelopment
                                            skills by 2007

(b) Infrastructurefor Agricultural                                                   Analysis and monitoring to inform
    Development                                                                      the annualdevelopmentplanprocess
                                                                                     ofACs and DAsandto redirect
Improve access and availabilityofwater      No o ffeeder roads spot-improvedby       resourcesifnecessary
resourcesfor increased agricultural         end ofyear 2007
production                                  No offarm tracks upgradedor              For impact assessment
                                            constructedbyand inuse by 2007
                                            No IMTSprovided to beneficiariesby       To document lessonsfor future
                                            2007                                     project planning and implementation
                                            50% reduction intravel and food
                                            evacuationtime for beneficiariesone
                                            year after completion ofruralroadsand
                                            farm tracks
                                            No of small-scalecontractors mobilized
                                            andretrainedto provide services by
                                            2007
                                            No of dams and dugoutsrehabilitated or
                                            constructedby 2007
                                            No o f wind or solar pumps
                                            constructedlin use by 2007
                                            Increasedcropping intensity(with
                                            irrigation) and at least 5% increase in
                                            crop production bybeneficiaries
                                            No andrange of post harvest facilities
                                            for animal and crop products
                                            deliveredlin use by 2006
                                            No ofrural marketsconstructedlin use
                                            by 2006




                                                         25

IntermediateResults                     ResultsIndicators                          Use of OutcomeMonitoring

(e) Rural EnterpriseDevelopment                                                    Assess performanceof learning
     and LearningCentres                   %ofbeneficiaryexistingrural             :enters
                                           enterprises increaseproductionby 50%
Increaserural incomeand generate           by2007                                  Feed into programfor mainstreaming
employmentthrough the establishment      e %offormerly under-employedand           programevaluation
o f rural enterprises especially agro-     unemployedrural beneficiariesable to
basedones ownedand managedby               establishtheir own businessesby 2007
individuals or groups                      No of learningcenters established by
                                           2007
                                           %ofthe beneficiariesestablishtheir
                                           own businessesby 2008

(d) Infrastructure for Socialand                                                   Track progress in implementation
     Human Development                     No of Community HealthImprovement
                                           facilities rehabilitatedlconstructedby
Provision ofcongenialenvironmentfor        2007
learning and healthimprovementby           No of. rural nutritional centers
rehabilitating and improvingexisting       constructed/%functioning by 2007
rural community educationaland health      No of boreholes
structuresandprovision ofpotable           constructed/~nctioninginrural
water facilities indiseaseburdened         communitiesby 2007
areas.                                     No ofboreholesrehabilitatedby 2007
                                           No ofhand-dugwells
                                           constructedlfunctioningby 2007
                                           No of WATSANs and Water Boards
                                           that are gender balanced and Mly
                                           functioning
                                           No ofparticipating communitiesand
                                           small towns collecting adequatefees for
                                           O&M
                                           No ofwater systems and sanitary
                                           facilities fimctionine as designed

      (d) Community-based Natural          At least 80% oftargetedDAs andACs
           ResourcesManagement             strengthened and ableto managenatural   Feed into collaborative NRM
                                           resourceseffectively by 2007            frameworkistrategy
Capacity-building ofcommunitiesand       e % ofthe beneficiariesofCBRNM
DAs to enhance environmental               which managedintegratedprojects
governance and integratedmanagement      e At least 5 criticalwatershedsprotected
of land and water resources                by beneficiary communitiesby2007
                                           At least 200 haoftargeted land
                                           rehabilitated by 2007
                                         e %oftargetedcommunitiesadopt
                                           sustainablenaturalresources
                                           management by2007




                                                        26

Monitoringand Evaluation (M&E) System

65.      The project monitoringandevaluation systemwill bedesignedandimplementedas an
integral part ofthe project at all five levels of implementation-communityllocal, Area Council
(AC), District Assembly @A), Regional, andNational. The system will be structuredto provide
informationfor decision making at these levels. Inthis regard, monitoring at eachlevelbe
designedto operate as a decentralizedsystem to meet the appropriateinformation needs for
decision makingat that level, andnot merely adatacollection point for use elsewhere.
However, informationwill be fed from one levelto the nextinthe hierarchy of implementation,
that is, from community levelto AC level upto the national level, The designwill beuser-
friendly andresult-focusedto generate information for tracking projectperformance, measuring
project outcomes againsttargets andevaluating impact againstthe planned objective.

66.      The framework, design, andoperationalproceduresfor implementation ofthe M&E
systemwill bedetailed inanOperationalManual. The manualwill clarify staff andagency
responsibilities, provide data collection methodsand formats; indicate reporting mechanisms;
frequency, timing and feedback; resourcesrequired; and establisha management information
system(MIS). The manual will also identifybaseline andother studies that would needto be
conducted, such as, beneficiary andimpact assessments

                                         Levels of Monitoring
CommunityLocal Level
67.      Monitoringat the communitylgroup level will involve participatory monitoring and self
evaluation by the communitylgroups. The project will assist community membersto identify
andagree onthe key outcome andoutput indicators that they woulduseto measure progressand
performance from their activities. The communities will select one or two membersto be
directly responsiblefor monitoring activities. Simple formatslscore cards for data capture and
whichdo not require computerization but simplemanualrecording andsummation are
recommendedat this level.

Area Council Level
68.      The Area Councils will be responsiblefor monitoring project activities of their
communitieslgroups. This will involve collation ofprogressrecords ofthe beneficiary
communities againstthe plannedtargets. The ACs will produce summariesshowing
performanceo fcommunity level sub-projects, and use that informationto signal the status o f
events at the community level andto respondas appropriate. The ACs will be encouragedand
assistedto carry out minimumanalysis ofthe data collected. As per their statutory responsibility
ofreporting to the DAYthe ACs will monitor the status of activities under CBRDP along those
financed by other developmentpartners. Two AC staff will be assignedthe responsibility for
monitoring and given adequatetraining.

District Assembly Level
69.      Monitoringandevaluation at the district leveli s aimed at two broad goals: The first is a
short-term goal of tracking project performance, physical and service outputs andoutcomes, and
evaluation of impact. The secondi s a long-term goal of building a strong andeffective M&E
capacity withinthe decentralizedDA for infrastructure and service delivery andmaintenance.
The DAs' workplans andbudgetswill bethe focus for monitoring, andwhose results would be


                                                   27

constantly fed into the planning and decision makingprocess andincorporated insubsequent
work plans and budgets. The DAs' monitoringreports should provide a global view o f
performance at the district level, ensure proper targeting o f intendedbeneficiaries, andprovide
information onthe distribution o fphysical infrastructure and services. These will be mapped into
a global positioning system (GIs). The monitoring staffwill carry out periodic physical
verification from time to time. PlanningOfficers at the DA will be responsible for M&E.

RegionalLevel
70.     Regional level monitoringwill involve tracking o fperformance o f the region's DAs,
project outcomes, and help to identify disparities inaccessto infrastructure and services among
districts. It i s not foreseen that the regions themselves will carry out data collection. They will
depend on informationfrom the DAs, Regions may conduct verification visits as and when
necessary. The planning staff will be responsible for M&Eactivities.

National Level
71.     Monitoring at the national level will involve tracking o f overall implementation
performance o fthe project, including project administrationandcoordination, financial
management (procurement anddisbursement etc.), outputs, resources etc. Analysis is expected to
provide informationon the results o fmonitoring, outcome andimpact evaluations and other
studies that may be carried out, to be used by policymakers and donors. The PPMED at the
MLGRDwill beresponsible for the M&E.The Heado fthe PPMED, anassistant anda staffwith
MIS skills will constitute the core M&E staff. They will be assistedby the MIS officer o fthe
RICU.

M&EIndicators
72.     The project M&Eindicators provided inthe PIMwere discussed through consultations
and agreed on by stakeholders. Itwill be necessary to undertakesimilar exercise with
communities on approval o ftheir requests to agree onthe indicators that the communitieslgroups
will bemonitoring.

Data Collection, Storage, Analysis and Dissemination
73.     Data generated, summarized, analyzed at the various levels o fmonitoring will be kept at
the point of collectionbut whatever is required as data source for the next level o f monitoring
will bepassedon. Forexample, the community levelwill pass on some datato the ACs, and
ACs to the DAs. The type o f data that should be passed on from one level to the other should be
clearly specified, and the schedule agreedupon. The PPMEDo fthe MLGRD, being responsible
for national level M&Ewill maintain a comprehensive database on the project.

74.     ACs will prepare quarterly summaries. Reporting at the DAs, regions andnational will
be quarterly summaries and mid-year and annual project reports. All reports will be widely
sharedto ensure feedback is provided at all level o fproject implementation.

                                             M&ECapacity
75.     Staff at all levels will be trained to strengthen their capacities for implementing M&E.
The training will betailored to the results o fa needs assessmentofthe staff inrelation to specific
skill requirements for their job assignments.



                                                   28

BaselineStudies
76.      Baseline data on individualcommunitieslgroupstogether, will constitute the baseline
information for the project. The data will be collected as soon as a communitylgroup's request is
approved. Requiring beneficiaries to complete a form that capturesbaseline information would
facilitate the acquisition of data. Additionally, the nationalM&Eunitwill compile the relevant
secondary data such as onpoverty levels and access to infiastructure for benchmarking impact.
Sources will include the GLSS and GhanaWelfare Core Indicators.

Other studies
77.      Other studies such as institutional analysisandimpact of the project on women may be
carried out inthe course ofproject implementation.

                                             Evaiuation
78.      A beneficiaryassessment will be carriedout to informthe mid-termreviewofthe project.
Anoverall impact evaluation ofthe project willbeconductedas part ofthe ICRat the endofthe
project.




                                                   29

                                      Arrangements for Results Monitoring

                                       -
 OutcomeIndicators         Baseline    YRl   YR2             Frequencyand   DataCollection  Responsibilityfor
                                       ___.                     Reports      Instruments    DataCollection

No o fdistrictswhich     Total                            Biannual          Field Surveys  DAs & PCU
havebenefitedfrom all    numberof                                           Quarterly      RPCUS
5 componentsof the       participating                                      reports
CBRDP                    districts                                          Annual reports
The statusofthe
populationofthose                                                           Implementation
                                                                            assistance
districts relativeto the                                                    missions
nationalpoverty line
80% of executingand      Total         25%  45%   60%
beneficiary local        numberof
governmentunits:         participating
DPCUs, ACs and           DPCU's
beneficiarycommunities   AICl's and
who undertake            beneficiary
participatoryplanning in communities
accordancewith NDPC
guidelines
80% ofall DAs and        Total         25%  45%   60%
ACs andcommunities       number o f
are able to implement    participating
their plansand deliver   DPCU's,
services devolvedto      AICl'S
them inaccordancewith
LGA462
80% o fparticipating     Total         25%  45yo  60%
DAsand ACs meetthe       number o f
transparencyand          participating
financial accountability DPCU's
requirements for         AICI's and
Financial                beneficiary
Administration and       communities
Procurement Acts
80% o f RPCUs,
DPCUs, ACs and                         25%  15%   60%
beneficiarycommunities
are able to monitor and
evaluatedevelopment
plans                                  -




                                                     30

                                               -        DataCr ction and Reporting               I
      Outcome Indicators            Baseline    YR1      YR3      Frequency and     Data Collection    Responsibilityfor
                                                                     Reports           Instruments      Data Collection
 ResultsIndicatorsfor Each
         Component
ComponentOne:                                                  Juarterly
InstitutionalStrengthening
and CapacityBuilding

      YOo fbeneficiary           Assessment         60% 50%                        Field Surveys      ucu,RFJCU,
     RPICU's able to perform     D feach o fthe                                    Juarterly reports   IPCU
     their functions effectively 11RFJICUS'S                                       innual reports      4cs
     bythe end ofthe project     as they enter                                     mplementation
      %o fbeneficiary local      program                                           tssistance missions
     government units able to
     performtheir functions
     effectively by end o f
     project
      % of beneficiary ACs
     able to performtheir
     hnctions effectively by
     end of project
      %o fbeneficiary NGOs,
     CBOs and service
     providers whose skills
     have been strengthened
     bythe end o fthe project
       %ofbeneficiary
      community facility
     management teams
      engaged inefficient
      management o f
      community projects by
      end o f the project
       YOofbeneficiary
      entrepreneurialgroups
      and individuals engaged
      inestablished enterprises
      byend o fthe project
ComponentTwo:
 Infrastructurefor
AgriculturalDevelopment                                                                                RICU, RPCU,
                                                                                                       DPCU
No o ffeeder roads spot-                                                           Field Survey        ACs
 improvedby end o fyear 2008     Baseline                      Biannual
                                                                                   Quarterly reports
       No of farm tracks         studies per
                                                                                   Annual reports
      upgraded o fconstructed/   district to be
                                 elaborated in                                     Implementation
      inuse by2008               the District                                      assistancemissions
       No, IMTSprovided to       Development
      beneficiarieslin use by    Plans
      2008 50% reduction in                                                        Field Observations
      travel and food
      evacuationtime for
      beneficiaries one year
      after completion of rural



                                                           31

   roads and farm tracks
     No ofsmall-scale
   contractorsmobilized and
   retrainedto provide
   maintenance services by
   2008
     No ofdams and dugouts
   rehabilitatedor
   constructedlinuse by
   2008
     Increasedcropping
    intensity (with irrigation)
    and at least 15% increase
    incropproductionby
    beneficiarieso f irrigation
    facilities 3 years after
    receiving facilities
     No & range of post
    harvest facilities for
    animal and crop products
    deliveredh use
     No ofrural markets
    constructed

Component Three:
Rural Enterprisesand
LearningCenters
                                                    Biannual    Field Survey        RICU, RPCU,
     No oflearningcenters                                       Quarterlyreports    DPCU
    established by 2008         Prior to
                                project                         Annualreports       ACs
 0   % of beneficiary           effectiveness                   Implementation      MT&PSI
    existing rural enterprises                                  assistance missions
    with increasedproduction
    by 2008
      % offormerly under-
    employedand
    unemployedrural
    beneficiariesstill                                          FieldSurveys
     engagedinthe Learning
     CentreNetwork in2008
      YOofthe above
     beneficiariesestablished
     intheir own businesses
     by 2008




                                                 32

                                              -                                     I
       Outcome Indicators           Baseline   YR1                  Frequency and     DataCollection  Responsibility
                                                                       Reports         Instruments      for Data
                                              - -                                                      Collection

Component Four:

Infrastructure for Social and
Human Development                                                 2uarterly         'ield Survey      ZWSA,
                                                                                    Juarterly reports RICU, RPCU,
                                 To be                                              4nnual reports    DPCU. MOH,
      No of Community Health     establishedat                                      hplementation     MoEYS
     Improvement facilities                                                         issistance
     rehabilitated and improved  project
                                 effectiveness                                      nissions
     by 2008

      No o frural nutritional
     centersconstructed
      %functioning by 2008
      No o fboreholes
     constructedin use by 2008
      No o fhand-dugwells
     constructedin use by 2008                - -
Component Five:

NaturalResource                                                                     Quarterly reports CWSA,
Management                                                                          Annual reports    RICU, RPCU,
                                                                                    Implementation    DPCU
% oftotal DA's and pilot AC's    0%            10%  20%    30%    Quarterly         assistance        EPA, MLF
beneficiaries which received                                                        missions
CBNRM

      %ofthe beneficiariesof     0%            15%  40%    45%
     CBNRMwhich manage
     integrated projects by 2008                                                    Field surveys
      At least5 critical
     watersheds protectedby      0%            2    3      4
     beneficiary communities by
     2008
      At least200 haoftargeted
     land rehabilitated by2008   0%            50   100     150
      %ofcommunities of
     overall project which adopt
     sustainableNRMby 2008       0%            10%  20%     30%
                                              - -

            Arrangements for ResultsMonitoring
            79.      Results monitoring will be mainstreamed through management. The DAs, the focal
            points of implementation, will be requiredto produce semi-annual implementation monitoring
            reportsto the RCCs. The RCCs, through the RPCUs, will also undertake periodic monitoring and
            producesemi-annualreports. The capacitiesof RPCUsrequiredfor monitoring will be enhanced
            through a learning-by-doing process and be a major feature of project activity. The Planning,
            Budget, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the MLGRD will be strengthened to provide
            assistance through training to the RCCs and will be requiredto produce annual reports. These



                                                         33

reports will be made available to all levels of project implementation for use intracking progress
as well as forming the basis ofcritical managementdecisions.




                                                 34

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                       GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment

80.     The overall goal of the project is to reduce poverty and enhance the quality of life of
beneficiary rural communities. This will be achievedby improving their productive assets, rural
infrastructure and access to key support services from private andpublic sources. Specifically the
project will:
             (i) Buildandstrengthencapacitiesofnational,regional, district, areacouncils
                   andrural communities to deliver services andmanage resources;
             (ii) Transfer technical and financial resources for the development of
                   infrastructure and income generating activities to be managedand maintained
                   by beneficiaries for their economic and social well-being and;
             (iii) Promote the convergence of decentralization efforts in accordance with the
                   NationalDecentralization Action Plan.

81.     These objectives will be achieved through the implementation of five main components:
(a) Institutional strengthening and capacity building; (b) Infrastructure for agricultural
development; (c) Rural enterprise and learningcenters development; (d) Infrastructure for social
andhumanresource development and; (e) Community-based natural resourcemanagement,

ProjectComponents

Component1:InstitutionalStrengtheningandCapacityBuildingfor Servicedelivery.
82.          This component will provide the basic framework for strengthening capacities of
local government institutions in furtherance of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS)
which includes: (i)  Good Governance through accountability and transparency, and (ii)     human
resource development, in order to improve service provision by statutory government agencies
andprivate providers. The project is designedto strengthencapacity of agencies responsible for
rural development through a "learning-by-doing" approach. Consequently, the project will
enhance and strengthen the capacities of the MLGRD, the 10 Regional Planning Coordinating
Units, 138 DAs, at least two ACs in each district, rural communities, Non Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) and private and public service
providers. This capacity building will include training, technical support and provision of
logistical support to perform their statutory roles in planning, implementing and managing
community driveninitiatives andensuring effective community participation indecision making.
 .Specifically,theprojectwill, amongother tasks:
    0    Strengthen the capacity of ACs, communities and their traditional authorities to identify
        and prioritize their needs, plan their development programs, access funds and technical
         support and implementandmaintain infrastructure;
    0    Strengthen capacity o f service providers, NGOs, CBOs and others, in the districts to
        provide cost-effective servicesto communities;
    0    Strengthen the capacity of beneficiaries to manage and maintain both public and private
         goods;
    4   Basedon specific identified need o f the DAs, strengthentheir functional and governance
         capacitiesas identifiedinthe Local Government Act 462 andother relevant legislation;



                                                 35

    e   Strengthen the financial and procurement management capacities of the MLGRD and
        regional and district tender boards;
    e   Strengthen the Decentralization Secretariat to pursue the decentralization agenda and
        operationalize the Local Government Service Act;
    e   Strengthen the capacity of DAs and RPCUs intheir monitoring and evaluation function;
        and
    e   Develop a public communication program aimed at (i)     adequately informing stakeholders
        about project opportunities and its participatory process, and (ii)   building consensus
        aroundthe project andits innovative approachat the institutional level


83.     The project would finance technical assistance for the training and strengthening of
beneficiary groups and community associations in specific skills (management, small enterprise
development, group dynamics, planning, budgeting and recordkeeping, managingbank accounts
communication, etc). Technical assistance will be implementedby local NGOs and other CBOs.
The DAs and ACs and their staff will be trained inparticipatory planning tendering procedures,
procurement and financial management, roles and responsibilities of area councils and their
members, relationships withDAsandother agencies, etc. The RPCUs andMLGRDinparticular
will be trained in M&E to provide better guidance to DAs. The project will train the less
experiencedNGOs and CBOs to expandthe service provider base andimplementation assistance
in smaller communities. Small contractors and other local entrepreneurs will be trained inthe
basic skills for organizing labor-intensive road construction, the construction of small dams and
irrigationfacilities.

Component2: Infrastructure for Agricultural Development
84.     The objective of this component is to increase the incomes of beneficiaries through the
provision of facilities andresourcesthat will enhance farm andnon-farm activities. This includes
provision of water for agriculture, crops and livestock and the rehabilitation of feeder roads,
provision of track and trails, intermediate means of transport to improve access, reduce the
drudgery ofheadportage, andenhance socio-economic activities inrural communities.

85,     Water for Agriculture: The project will finance small-scale irrigation from streamflow
diversions, pumping and run-off management, ponds, dugouts and tube wells inareas where the
topography lends itselfto suchtechnologies. Gravity fed systems usually involve lower costs and
management skills and would generally be preferred to systems requiring pumping. The recently
introduced windmill pumps by the VIP will also be promoted as environmentally friendly
equipment. Other water retaining structures such as earthen banks, bunds and other flow
controlling structures to reduce runoff and increase infiltrationwill also be promoted. All water
impoundment schemes will include strategies to protect the water source and catchment area
through tree planting and will be the focus o f the natural resource management group of the
districtassembly.

86.     ImprovingAccessibility. The project will finance spot improvements of at least 250 km
of feeder roads (including the provision of culverts and appropriate drainage), that have been
renderedimpassable by degraded sections, to restore access to beneficiary communities that are
cut off from markets and centers of service delivery. The ACs will determine priority feeder



                                                36

roads to be rehabilitated, and inconsultation withthe DAs, determine the timing of linking them
up with track and trails to be improved. The Department of Feeder Roads must consent to
maintain feeder roadsto be rehabilitatedunderthe program.
The project will upgrade farm-to-village tracks andtrails identifiedby beneficiary communities
to facilitate the use of intermediate means of transport (IMTs) for purposes of reducing head
portage and time usedby women and children incarrying inputs andproduce to andfrom farms.
Communities will be trained to maintain these tracks andtrails. Wherever possible, the tracks to
be constructed will be 3-meter wide with shallow drains and culvert lengths of about 6 meters.
The DFR has trained over 300 small-scale contractors throughout Ghana, Some of these are
trained labor-based contractors; however, they are not adequately equipped to carry out road
maintenance. Such contractors can readily be mobilized, retrained and resourced to move into
the communities to undertakeroadmaintenanceworks usingmainly community labor.

87.     Funds will be provided for consultant services for engineering design, contract
supervision and training wherever necessary. Maintenance of these feeder roads and farm tracks
would be included inthe various beneficiary DA annual work plans (AWPs) and Budgets and
carried out. Improvement and maintenance o f VTTs will be done by labour-based contractors
where available, usingcommunity basedlabor.

88.     Head Portage and Tillage: The project will promote the use o f intermediate means of
transport (IMTs) to substitute head loading especially by women and children.          It will also
promote alternatives to manual tillage. The main IMTs that have been gaining acceptance in
many parts of the country are: (i) trailers; (ii) carts; (iii) trailers drawn by
                                    bicycle              donkey             light
power units. The use of these units has been promoted by the Transport Rehabilitation Project
and later by the VIP with wide acceptability. The project will finance small animal drawn
implementssuchas ploughs, harrows andridgers for tillage andother agricultural purposes.

89.      Post Harvest. The project will provide facilities for post harvest treatment of crops and
animal products to reducepost harvest losses andenhance their value and shelf life: On-farm and
village level developments such as storage facilities; drying floors, cribs, crop processing and
smoking units; processing equipment and facilities such as grinding mills, digesters, extractors
and presses and other miscellaneous equipment will be provided. It will also finance a limited
amount of rural markets under the Managementof ACs.

90.      The project will finance the purchaseof equipmentandlabor saving devices andpromote
technical assistance to be provided by local NGOs and private firms intraining on their use and
maintenance. The project will engage where feasible, NGOs with proven experience to promote
the use of small scale cost-effective irrigation schemes such as the use o f tube wells, micro- and
manual pumpsand also the use o f appropriate equipment such as bullock plows andharrows and
rice threshing machines. The NGOs will be required to train beneficiaries in the use and
maintenanceof the equipment or facility and lead such groups to acquire the facility through the
micro-finance window. The contract betweenthe project and the NGO will include the number
o f people who have beentrained and have acquired the facility and a requirement to follow up
withinagiventime periodto evaluatethe use ofthe goods acquiredunderthe facility.




                                                 37

Component 3: Ruralenterprise development and learningcenters
91,      This component is made up of community owned and managedbusinesses and micro-
enterprises located inrural areas with the potential to spearhead development inparticular fields
of commodity production, agro-processing and marketing. The emphasis on rural enterprise is
placedmore on the location of the enterprise, its form of operation (i-e., beingrunalong business
lines) and reliance on the use of local inputs and not necessarily the size of the business. The
objective is to assist such enterprises to develop into centers of excellence that can be used as
ready market for fresh farm produce for processing to avoid post harvest losses, generate
employment and raise rural incomes. This is based on the fact that the potential to boost rural
income and capacity to generate employment, and the acquisition of employable skills in the
rural areas exists. The project will provide finance through the micro-credit scheme to groups of
farmers to purchase blocks of shares with strategic investors to establish rural agro-processing
enterprises such as was the case with the Bank financed Farmapine Company. The Ministry of
Trade, Industry and Presidential Special Initiatives (MTI&PSI) has commissioned a number of
feasibility studies withvery promising results for the establishment of suchjoint ventures owned
by groups of farmers, district assembliesand strategic investors The project will provide support
for (i)enterprise development and management; (ii) development and promotion; (iii)
                                                        market
technology promotion, transfer and commercialization; and (iv) resource mobilization and
investmentpromotion.

92.     The rural enterprise must have the following characteristics to qualify for support from
the project:
             0  Rurality -located inareas with population living insettlements of not more than
                5000
             e  Formal entity either as a co-operative, group, sole proprietorship, limitedliability
                company
                Existingof start-up
                Mustbeprivately runentity
             e  Musthaveproveneconomicandsocialimpact onactorswithinthe locality
             e  Mustutilizelocalrawmaterials
             e  Shareholding (ie., ownership mustbebasedinthe locality)
             e  Mustbe seen as abusiness
             0  Indigenous and local skills being used
             0  Must have potential for growth (Le., sufficiently high returns on investment or
                grossmargins)
            'e  Musthaveat leastone employee
             0  Mustkeep financial records

93.     Each rural enterprise would be evaluatedbased on its technical, financial, economic and
management feasibility. The project will work with existing producers to provide identified
enterprise development needs. This would include direct advice from MTI&PSI, MOFA,
National Board for Small Scale Enterprises (NBSSI), Export Promotion Council FPC), NGOs
andthe private sector in simple business planning process, preparation of formal business plans
and problem solving on enterprise management issues. Additional training and technical
assistance would be provided on entrepreneurshipdevelopment, business planning, systems and


                                                 38

management, market development, financial management and analysis and business growth
strategies. The project will facilitate market development and groups will be encouraged to
identify actions to improve local production quality, processing, packaging and or
diversification. Potential markets will be developed inmarket matching, joint venture activities
and contract negotiationadvice.

94. The project will support the setting up of learning centers for the wider community. These
centers will serve as focal points for empowering the poor through the acquisition of knowledge
and skills, processing units and marketing outlets. A learning centre is organized around a
prospering small private enterprise with potential for expansion and the willingness of the
entrepreneur to accept and train others to develop similar business. The objective i s to assist
such enterprises to develop into centers of excellence that can be used as nucleus to develop the
capacity and skills of rural unemployed and under-employed, especially the youth to produce
quality produce (farm and non-farm) for the market in order to generate employment and raise
rural incomes. First, they have to be assisted to expand and upgrade to handle and market
additional produce that their "learners" will produce after training, Second, they train potential
entrepreneurs to emulate their example and continue to provide technical advice for quality
assurance and keep pace with changes intechnology. Potential learning centers will be assisted
in three ways: (i)they will be resourced to provide technical assistance to out-grower
farmerslproducers so that the latter can increase their production and improve on quality; (ii)
they will be provided with credit to increase the capacity of their plants to process increase
volumes of raw material likely to come from the out-growers; and (iii)       they will be given
technical assistance in enterprise management, standardizing output, product packaging,
advertising and finding marketsfor produce.

95.     Trainees who acquire skills from the centre will be encouraged to become part of the
learning and production network and continue to be associated with the centre and eventually
culminate ina cooperative association. The principaltarget groups for this component includes
existing rural small scale entrepreneurs (farmers and non-farming entrepreneurs) and under
employed and unemployed rural populace (made up of rural youth, rural women and graduate
apprentices). Examples of enterprises which yield easily for apprenticeship are, bee keeping,
snail production, vegetable and h i t production, rabbitry, poultry keeping, aquaculture, grass
cutter cultivation, piggery, fish processing, etc. The unemployed and the youth will be
encouraged to learn and set up their own enterprises but continue to link up with the learning
center for purposesof marketing and up-grading of technical skills. These learning centers would
constitute a major exchange o f information, experiences and lessons learned from project
implementation, thus promoting horizontal communication among communities.

96.     A pilot learning center inapiary was identifiedand assistedto operate underthe VIP. The
"Honey Center" was assistedto identify andtrain 50 farmers inone district inthe Central region.
The center provides technical assistance to the collaborators, from construction of beehives to
techniques of harvesting and starting new bee colonies to the cultivationo f one acre of cashew
plantation each. The presence of the bees increases pollination o f cashew trees with consequent
increase inyields inaddition to the honey produced. The center serves as a ready market for the
honeyproduced.




                                                39

Component4: Infrastructurefor SocialandHumanDevelopment.
97.     Provision of a congenial environment for learning and health improvement by
rehabilitating and improving existing rural community health and educational structures. This
component will also provide potable water, especially in areas known to have water related
disease that limit the productivity of the rural population andwhere women and children have to
travel far to access clean water. The Project will support the Community Health Planning
Services (CHPS) initiated by the Ministry of Health (MoH) by mobilizing communities for the
construction of health compounds and provide logistics to operationalize the CHPS. Inaddition,
nutrition centers will be rehabilitated on demand and in association with the World Food
Program (WFP). The CWSA will ensure that the delivery if point sources conform to standards
set spelt out in the POM of the STWSSP. Inaddition the RWST will provide technical support
andthe RPCUs andDPCUinthe implementationofthe water component. The Bank supervision
team'will include expert on water and sanitation. Similarly, all other social amenities will
conform to standards set by appropriate line ministries and agencies in conformity with their
statutory obligations.

Component5: Community-basedNaturalResourceManagement.
98.     Sustainable agricultural development is strongly linked to sound conservation and
managementpractices, which protect the natural resources- soils, water, forests, vegetation and
wildlife. These types of activities are best done by owners and other users who depend on the
land and other natural resources for a living. This component will build the capacity o f
communities and district assemblies to enhance environmental governance and integrated
management of land and water resources to ensure improvement in the quality of life of
beneficiaries.

99.     Natural Resource Conservation and Management. The project will tap into the expertise
of existing NRM institutions such as the Forest Services Division (FSD). Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), Savanna Resources Management Center (SRMC), Resource
Management Support Center (RMSC), Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF) and the Wildlife
Division (WD), and make use of available knowledge to assist communities to prepare natural
management plans for making productive use of the available natural resources. Beneficiary
communities and individuals will be assisted to establish tree and tree-crop nurseries for the
production of seedlings, adopt soil and water conservation measures, control bush fires, and
establishwood lots.

100.    Watershed and Head water Conservation and Manapement. The project will promote the
protection and conservation o f watersheds to ensure regular flow o f water and effective use of
water resources. Using the 2003 updated land uselcover maps, the project will identify and
rehabilitate critically degraded watershed areas. The project will promote the application o f
indigenousknowledge inwatershedmanagement.

101.    Alternative Livelihoods The project will provide the necessary incentive system by
targeting natural resource collectors, processors and traders, wood carvers, traditional medical
practitioners, wildlife traders and breeders and rural eco-tourism operators, This will include the



                                                  40

provision o f alternative livelihoods and water for both irrigation and livestock to increase the
income earning capacity of beneficiary communities. These operators will be linked to the
learning centers initiatives to provide skills to the ruralunemployed.

ProjectFinancial ManagementandAuditing. (see Annexes 7 and 8)
102.     The project will shift from activity-based support under the VIP to formula-basedblock
grants for public goods i.e., goods owned by the local government, ACs and communities. The
approach is to provide investment support for the provision of rural infrastructure, technical
assistance for capacity building and other services based on the preparation of participatory
annual work plans. The nature of goods and services classified as public goods will be agreed
upon between the Bank andthe borrower during negotiations and specified inthe PIM. Finance
for private goods Le., goods owned individually or in groups, will be channeled through rural
financial institutions to beneficiaries, as was the case under the VIP, but in this case will be
managedby the Apex Bank (an umbrella organization that links all rural and community banks
operating in Ghana) instead of the Bank of Ghana. This means that the sole responsibility for
loan appraisal and approval, entering into agreements, disbursement and loan recovery would
rest with the rural financial intermediary. The financial intermediary will be able to access
wholesale loan facilities operatedby the Apex Bank on behalf of the Government of Ghana and
make commercial retailloans available from the proceeds. A memorandumof understandingwill
be signed betweenthe Apex Bank and the Ministry of Finance and this will be a condition for
loandisbursement.

103.     Independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank will carry out the annual
financial audit of the project. Annual audits carried out by statutory government agencies will be
required.This DA audit review, inaddition to the normal financial systems, will cover the DA's
compliance with all agreed procedures and eligibility rules. The selection of all auditors and
financial consultants shall be on a competitive basis in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
The financial auditors would be inplace by effectivenessof the project. The auditors' reports and
opinions includingthe Managementletter of the annual financial audit would be furnishedto the
World Bankwithinsix months of the close of eachfiscal year.




                                                   41

                                      Annex 5: Estimated Project Costs
                            GHANA: Community-Based RuralDevelopment



Project Cost By Component                                           Local       Foreign      Total
                                                                 U S $million U S $million US $million
Institutional StrengtheningandCapacity Building                       5.58          2.54        8.12
for Service Delivery
Infrastructure for Agricultural Development                           15.23         4.93       20.16
RuralEnterprises and Learning Centers                                 6.11          1.79        7.90
Development
Infrastructure for Social andHumanResource                            16.48         5.49       21.97
Development
Community-basedNatural ResourceManagement                              1.97         2.18        4.15
Project Management                                                     2.45         4.44        6.89

Total Baseline Cost                                                   47.82        21.37       69.19
 Physical Contingencies                                                1.67         0.79        2.46
 Price contingencies                                                   1.51         0.78        2.29
                                        Total Project Costs'          51.OO        22.94       73.94

* figures maydiffer slightlydueto rounding

'Identifiabletaxes andduties are US$8.93mandthe totalprojectcost net oftaxes is US$65.01m.


Project Cost By Expenditure Categories                              Local       Foreign       Total
                                                                 U S $million US $million US $million
Civil Works                                                           31.46          7.86      39.32
Equipment                                                              1.15          8.10        9.25
Training                                                               8.91          0.20        9.11
Technical Assistance                                                   3.27          5.12        8.39
Working Capital                                                        1.00          0.00        1.oo
Operations andMaintenance                                              2.01          0.11        2.12

Total Baseline Cost                                                   47.82        21.37       69.19
                                                                ~




  Physical Contingencies                                               1.67          0.79        2.46
  Price Contingencies                                                  1.51          0.78        2.29
                                         Total Project Costs          51.00        22.94       73.94

* figuresmay differ slightlydueto rounding




                                                       42

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                       GHANA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment

104.    The Government of Ghana has over the past decade been implementing a well-defined
decentralization policy stipulated inthe 1992 Constitution and outlined inthe Local Government
Act 462 of 1993. A number of Laws that support the decentralization policy are: (i) Civil The
Service Law (PNDCL 327); (ii)    TheNational DevelopmentPlanning CommissionAct 1994(Act
479); (iii)The National Development Planning System Act 1994 (Act 480) and; (iv) the Local
Government Service Law signed by the President in December 2003, These laws identify
statutory agencies, especially the district assemblies, as being responsible for planning,
implementation and monitoring of rural development programs. The implementation
arrangements are underpinnedby the need to: (i)     strengthen existing statutory bodies to perform
functions assigned to them by existing Laws; (ii)     coordinate various interventions for service
delivery; (iii) provide strong coordination on policy matters that affect efficient delivery of
services; (iv) provide strong technical support and assistance to transfer capacity to statutory
bodies; and(v) coordinate inter-sectoral and donor activities.

105.    Project Steering Committee. The project organization and management will be similar to
that of the Village Infrastructure Project and will be mainstreamed into existing statutory MDAs
responsiblefor rural development, The MLGRD is responsiblefor the decentralization and rural
development agenda in the country and has established the Decentralization Oversight
Committee and a Secretariat to coordinate and oversee decentralization implementation.
Oversight of project implementation will be the responsibility of the MLGRD, which will be
assistedinthis capacity by a Project SteeringCommittee. The Steering Committee, to be chaired
by the Minister for MLGRD, will comprise Chief ExecutiveslDirectors from the following
ministries and agencies: (i)  Ministry o f Food and Agriculture; (ii)  Ministry of Trade, Industry
and Presidential Initiatives; (iii)Ministry of Roads and Highways; (iv) Ministry Works and
Housing; (v) Ministryo f Employment and Social Welfare; (vi) Ministry o f Forestry and Lands;
(vii) Ministry of Health; (viii) Ministry of Education; (ix) Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning; (x) IrrigationDevelopment Authority; (xi) Departmento f Feeder Roads; (xii) National
Board for Small Scale Industries; (xiii) President ofNational Association of Local Governments;
(xiv) representative o f civil society organization (xv) Apex Bank; (xvi) Association of Ghana
Industries; (xvii) a representative of rural banks; (xviii) an presiding member of the assembly;
and (xix) a member o f parliament. The PSC will meet bi-monthly during the 1'' year and
quarterly in subsequent years and will have the responsibility for overall guidance including: (i)
deliberate on policy issues andprovide policy guidance; (ii)  coordinate activities of agencies and
Ministries involved in project implementation; (iii) and approve annual work plans,
                                                         review
budget and annual reports; and (iv) assess progress towards achieving the project objectives and
take corrective actions to ensure adequateimplementationo fproject activities.

 106.   The MLGRD lacks the capacity for project implementation and financial management
and will have to be strengthened to mainstreamproject implementation over the duration o f the
project, The Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU), which has successfully managed
the Village Infrastructure Project will provide management support to the Ministry The RICU
will, inthe process of implementation, strengthen appropriate MLGRD Departments for project
implementationand management. The RICU staff position will be strengthened to include a rural


                                                 43

enterprises development and a natural resourcesmanagementspecialistto implementthe RELCs
and CNRM components respectively. Specialists to be retained are a rural engineer, a project
accountant, a monitoring and evaluation officer, and a management information systems
specialistandcore administrative staff.

107.    The RICU will be headedby a Project Coordinator who will be the secretary to the PSC
and report directly to the Chief Director MLGRD. Functions of RICU will include project
management and coordination, planning and budgeting, financial management, managing the
IDA special account in compliance with World Bank Financial Management Guidelines,
ensuring procurement complies with the country's procurement guidelines, monitoring and
evaluation, infrastructure engineeringandmicro-project appraisal.

108.    Regional ~ a n a g e ~ e nand Zonal Coordination. The RCC has responsibility as a
                                     t
secretariat to coordinate all regional development programs with the Regional Planning
Coordinating Units (RPCU). The RPCUs are staffed by the regional Planning Office and a core
technical staff as defined by NDPC Act 480 of 1994, with a statutory function to coordinate
district plans, harmonize activities and monitor implementation. The RPCUs are, however, too
weak and poorly resourcedto carry out their statutory obligations to provide technical support to
the districts. Consequently, the project will maintain the existing four Zonal RICUs, which will
recruit an additional institutional specialist and engineer per region, to strengthen the capacity of
the RPCUs. The functions of the zonal RICUs will be similar to those of the national RICU but
will be limited to providing support to the districts. The RICUs will strengthen and transfer
capacities to the RPCU under the overall guidance of the Regional Coordinating Councils, to
coordinate, appraise and approve micro-project proposals and carry out quality assurance. No
parallel structure will be established at the regional level and all implementation assistance will
bemainstreamedwithinexisting administrative structures.

109.    District Level ~ a n a g e ~ e nThe focal point of project implementation will be the District
                                        t .
Assemblies @As). The Local Government Law Act 462 that established the DAs empowers
each district to be responsible for all development activities within the district. Each district has
anExecutive Committee headedbythe District ChiefExecutive with specializeddepartmentsfor
planning, budgeting, finance and administration, which constitute the District Planning
Coordinating Units (DPCU). The DPCUs have project implementation experience, having
successfully attained the capacity through the Village Infrastructure Project and other donor
fundedprojects, and will be responsible for project implementation and management of micro-
projects and investment funds. They will prepare annual work plans and determine financing
gaps for their rural infrastructure needs and will submit proposals to the RPCUs, who will
evaluate the proposalstogether withthe Zonal RICUoffices.

110.    Sub-district structures: As the ACs and Unit Committees are relatively new and under-
resourced institutions, they are relatively weak, but the VIP experience gained through
strengthening 61 ACs on a pilot basis has proven the potential contribution they can make to
rural development. These institutions together with their traditional authorities will need to be
made functional for successful implementation o f the proposed approach. They will play a
critical role in planning, implementation and O&M (in certain cases, community monitoring
mechanisms will be extremely important for achieving downward accountability of the LG



                                                  44

institutions to their constituents). NGOs and CBOs will be requiredto play an important role in
community mobilization, participatory planning, technical support and other community-based
activities.

Reporting, AnnualReview and Mid-Term Review

111. The MLGRD will prepare a comprehensive semi-annual reports and Financial
MonitoringReports (annex 7) with inputs from the DPCUs and WCUs as indicated inannex 3.
Thereport should include updates onthe results agreement.

112.     The PSC will organize an implementation workshop jointly with IDA and other
development partners on or before October 30 every year. The workshop will be a forum for
discussion of the decentralization program with development partners. The government will
distribute a comprehensive report covering coordination and harmonization of decentralization
and service delivery, progress made inthe implementation of the NDAP and report specifically
on project activities, institutional, procurement and progress towards the attainment of the
development objectives and how the CBRDP has and is contributing to the wider
decentralization program. Based on the results of the review, recommendations covering steps
requiredto improve harmonization, coordination andimplementationofthe NDAP will be made
with appropriateactionsplans developedfor the followingyear.

113.     A Mid-TermReview (MTR) will be conductedjointly bythe Borrower andthe Bank not
later than October 30,2006 during which the project will be examinedindepth with the view of
improving implementation performance, including but not limited to physical and financial
aspects, and inparticular, its developmental impact. A beneficiary assessment will be conducted
prior to the MTR to guide discussions. The MLGRD will prepare a comprehensive report
covering the implementation period and will be delivered to IDA at least 30 days before
commencementofthe MTR.




                                               45

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
 CountryIssue

114.    A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Ghana, which was
conductedin2001 has been updatedin2003, andis inthe processof being discussedwith
government and stakeholders. This documentclearly identifies the mainaccountability issues in
Ghanaandprovides recommendationsto address them. Italso recognizes some ofthe ongoing
actions that whenimplementedfully will address some ofthe identifiedweaknesses. Some ofthe
issues identifiedinthe CFAA include:

i)      Fragmentedlegal framework (partly addressedinthe Financial Administration Act) and
        lack of enforcementof existing penaltiesfor noncompliance;
ii)     Ineffective andinefficient internal auditing functions (being addressed withthe
        enactment ofthe Central InternalAudit ACT);
iii) Weakhumanresourcecapacitybecauseofpoorpublicsectorremuneration;
iv)     Weak payroll andpension control systems;
v)      Inadequatefinancial controls andhumanresource capacity at the local government
        (District Assembly-(DA)) level.

Summaryof FinancialAccountabilityRiskAnalysis

              Risk                  Risk             RiskMitigationMeasure
                                   Rating
InherentRisks:
  Counhy
a) Fragmentedlegal                    S      Although Government has introduced a
framework.                                   comprehensivelegal framework for
                                             public financial Managements, through
                                             the Financial Administration Act (FAA),
                                             the absence of the relatedregulations i s
                                             affecting its implementation. Government
                                             i s being assistedto finalize the
                                             Regulations, andtrain financial
                                             Managementsstaff at all levels.
b)Non-compliance ofstatutory          H
regulations andnon-                          Governmentneeds to institute measures
enforcementofpenalties.                      that ensure the systematic review, update
                                             andenforcementof penalties for non-
                                             comdiance.
Inadequacyof legal framework                 Government has passedlegislationto
to regulate internal audit                   establishamodern internal audit function,
functions incountry                          the Central Internal Audit ACT (CIAA).
                                             Assistancewill be provided for its
                                             implementation.
     OverallInherent Risk




                                                  46

1 ControlRisks
  Ministry of Local Govt. and
  Rural Development (MLGRD)
  & theDistrict Assemblies
  @As)
  Staffingat the MLGRDand
          -
  DAs
  a) Ministry andthe Assemblies     M  Agreements should be concludedto
  have inadequately qualified          transfer adequatelyqualified accounting
  staff assignedfrom the               staff from the controller and accountant
  Controller andAccountant             general's department to MLGRDandDAs.
  General's Department                 The project to work withthe C&AGD to
  (C&AGD) .                            undertakeintensiveregional andzonal
                                       training programs for financial staff.
                                    M   The DA will ensure all key staff
  accounting staffo fthe Ministry      transferred, provide detailed andadequate
  andthe Assemblies.                   handing over notes, andincoming key staff
                                        receivethe needed training prior to them
                                       taking up office. This will be partofthe
                                       requirementDAswill berequiredto meet
                                       inorderto continueto receivefinds under
                                       the project.
   c) That trained staff will leave M  All newaccounting staff will betrained
   government services altogether      before they assume office.

                                     S The project, inconsultation, withthe
  will nothave access to any            C&AGD will help finance cost of
   accounting staff at all.             accounting staff insuchDAs.
  Accounting SystemsAt
  District Assemblies
   a) Control weaknesses over       M   Assemblieswill be assistedto strengthen
   revenue collection.                  their systems ofcontrol over revenue
                                        collections.
   b) Weak controls over the        M   Districtaccounting staff will be trained and
   preparation, approval o f            assistedto improve their accounting,
   transactions, payments, basis        booking andrecording skills.
   of accounting, accounting
   standards, cashandbank               All districts will beassistedto Maintain
   transactions, districts and          fixedassets registers, andimprove their
   project assets andcommitment         controls over their assets.
II tracking.
   Funds Flow
   a) Delays inreleasingo f funds   M   District Assemblies will meet an agreed
   from the centerto the                minimumoffinancial criteria, including
   Assemblies.                          the existence of financial proceduresand
                                        adeauate accounting staff. to enable them


                                             47

                                    manage their project funds. This will make
                                     eachAssembly responsible and
                                     accountable for its own funds.
                                M    Training will be provided for accounting
                                     staff andactions takento strengthen the
                                     financial Managements system of
                                    Assemblies.
 preparationofwithdrawal
~




 applications.
 InternalAudit
 a) No professional internal      S  Governmentis inprocessof setting up a
 audit (IA) function exists at      modernIA unitwithinGovernment, with
 MinistryandAssemblylevels.         assistance from donors. Ministryo fLocal
 b) GovernmentIA is limitedto       Governmentwill be assistedto strengthen
 pre-auditing, withno added          its IA unitto perform checks andreviews
 value.                             as part ofimplementing arrangements.

                                    Project will also hireindependentaudit or
                                     financial consultancyfirms to carry out
                                     routine andhalfyearly audit reviews as a
                                    mechanismto strengthen financial systems
                                    withinthe DA.

                                     Findings of weaknesses will provide input
                                     into the designof further FMtraining for
                                     DA finance staff.

                                     The project will also provide assistance to
                                    the DAs inthe establishment of their
                                     internal audit units as requiredby the new
                                     InternalAudit Act andhelpfundthe
                                     relatedtraining cost


 Project audit reportslikely to M    The project will institute mechanismwhere
 be submittedlate.                  the project agree inadvance an audit
                                     program withthe auditors prior to year end
                                     andmonitor to ensure compliance.
                                     Auditors' contracts will be limitedto one
                                     year andrenewal will be contingent on
                                    timely submissionoftheir audit reports.




                                           48

Reportingand Monitoring

a) Delays inthe submission of        M      Project will provide training to Assembly
Financial monitoring reports                finance staffto enable them carry out their
(FMRs), andother project                    duties effectively.
reports.
b) LimitedCapacity of                       The FMRformats andcontentsto be
MinistryandAssemblyStaff.                   agreed withborrower will be simple and
                                            easy to produce.
I nformation Systems
Computerized systems are not         M      Inthe absenceofcomputerizedsystems,
inplaceatthe Ministryand                    the DA will be assistedto maintain
Assemblies. The Ministrywill                adequate manual systems withthe
infuture benefitfrom                        assistance of spreadsheets andrelevant
computerization of government               Books.
accounting system.
                                            Goodperforming andactive DAswill be
                                            assisted to automatetheir svstems.
    Overall Control Risk          \ M I


AccountingSystems at the District Assemblies
115.   The Accounting systems andbudgeting atthe District Assembliesare similar andoperate
cash basis of accounting with only limitedinformation on commitments. The financial
Managementssystems of the DAs, like most MDAs, are governedmainly by the Ghana
Financial Administration Act 2003 (GFAA; formerly FAD 1979)andthe Local Government
Financial Regulations (LGFR). The key features o fthe financial managementsystem include
budgeting, budget approval andexecution, accounting andrecording, reporting and auditing
processes.

Budgeting
116.    The first stage involves fee fixing and submissionofdepartmentalbudget estimates for
considerationbythe Finance andAdministration Sub-committee o fthe Assembly by endo f
October. The second stage involves budgethearing by the sub-committee which is expectedto
becompletedbythe endofNovember to enable a draft annual estimates (budget) to be laid
before the GeneralAssembly for final approval before the endofDecembero feachyear. This
timetable is hardlyfollowed andinmost casesthe final budget is approvedinthe first quarter of
the year to which itrelates. The project will assist DAsto improvethe budgetingprocesses and
keepto the laiddowntimetable.

117.    Underthe project, eachDA will berequiredto prepare its annualwork planandbudget
including counterpartrequirements,based on its 3-year developmentplan. The planandbudget
will be comprehensive as againstthe current situation where some project activities at the local
government levels are not includedintheir budgets.




                                                  49

Accounting
118.   Expendituresare initiatedbyrelevantheadof departmentandcheckedbythe budget
sectionofthe DA for verification to ensure that the departmenthas funds under that expenditure
category. The relevant procurementprocesstakes placeleading to the issuanceof a contract or
anLimitedPurchaseOrder (LPO). Stores receipt vouchers are issued andpayment is madewhen
the itemi s suppliedandtaken into stores,. Check i s issued and signedbythe authorized
signatories. These are thenrecorded inthe bookso fthe assembly andfinally reportedintheir
financial statements.

119.   All DAsare requiredto submittheir monthly financial statements to the MLGRDand
Controller andAccountant General's Department (C&AGD). The statementsconsist of: (i)     a
balancesheet; (ii) revenue andexpenditurestatementcomparedwithbudget showing variances;
and(iii) atrial balance. Thetimeliness and compliance ofthis requirementis not total andina
numberofcasesDAslag behind.The projectwill provide assistanceto DAsto improve the
reporting related activities associatedwith the accounting procedures.

120.   The financial managementresponsibility at the DAsis vestedinthe DistrictFinance
Officer (DFO). The accounting system is not documentedinanaccountingproceduresmanual in
any ofthe DAs, butrather they all rely onthe FAA andLGFR. Underthe Urban5 project (also
fundedbythe IDA), a financial proceduresmanual is beingdevelopedfor the participating DAs
andoncompletion, this will be adoptedbythe remaining DAs.This will be included as part of
the strengtheningof the DA financial systems. Additional andcontinuous training infinancial
managementandWorld BankDisbursementrequirements will be carried out to achieve an
improvedfinancial managementsystem inaccordancewith the GFAA ofthe DAs. This will also
be done inclose collaboration withother projects being implementedat the district level.

                               FinancialManagementfor Project
121.   The ChiefDirector ofthe MLGRDwillhaveoverall responsibility for project
implementationincludingfinancial management.However, the day-to-day financial management
responsibility will be vested inthe Headof Finance andAccounts unitof the Ministry.The
finance andaccounts unitofthe Ministry will be responsible for maintaining adequate
accountingrecords, preparing financial reports and statementsandensuringthat the project's
financial managementarrangementsare acceptable to the Government andthe World Bank with
assistance provided by RICU.. The finance and accounts unitwill also be responsible for
consolidating project wide activity plans andprogressreport for submissionto government and
World Bank.

122.   The Ministryhas implementedseveralprojects inthe past, however, these projects have
been implementedthrough project implementation units (PIUs). The MLGRDhas decidedto
mainstreamall project implementation andphase out PIUs andwill to seek supportto improve
its own systems. The CBRDP andother Bank projects will support the Ministryto achieve its
objective. Presently, the finance andaccounts unitofMLGRDis very weak anddoes not have
oversight responsibility for donor funds.

123.   To ensure the establishment o fan effective financial managementsystem for the Ministry
inatimelymannerandnot delayproject implementation, the accountingunitwillbeassistedin



                                                50

carrying out their responsibilities bythe RICU accountantsandthe relationships and
responsibilities will be spelt out inthe PIM, this will includebutnot limitedto working with
consultantsto modify the computerized accounting systeminuse at the RICUfor the Ministry's
use and ensure that effective and adequate financial managementsystem are maintained at all
times at the Ministryandfor project.

Financing Windows
124.    The project will shift from activity-based support to formula-based block grants for
public goods i.e., goods owned bythe localgovernmentor ACs. Two accountswill be openedby
the participating DAs. The District Development Funds will be the window through which
project funds will be deposited to finance capital investment sub-projects in the communities,
based on the preparation of a participatory development plans. The second window will finance
capacity building requirements o f the districts, area councils and communities. The approach i s
to provide investment support to the DAs and ACs for the provision of rural infrastructure,
capacity building and other services. Financing of sub-projects will meet the eligibility criteria,
whichwill beoutlined inthe PIM.

125.     The project will establish a micro-finance scheme for private goods i.e., goods owned
individually or in groups for productive and income generating ventures and total scheme
amount will not exceed 20% o f total project cost. The funds to support private goods (eligible
goods to be detailed out in the PIM) will be channeled through rural financial institutions to
beneficiaries, as was the case under the VIP, and will be managedby the ARB Apex Bank (an
umbrella organization that links all rural and community banks operating inGhana). This means
that the sole responsibility for loan appraisal and approval, entering into agreements,
disbursement and loan recovery would rest with the rural financial intermediary. The financial
intermediary will be able to access wholesale loanfacilities operatedbythe Apex Bank on behalf
of the Government of Ghana and make commercial retail loans available from the proceeds. A
memorandum of understanding will be signed between the Apex Bank and the Ministry of
Finance, It was agreed during appraisal the ARB Apex Bank will on-lend to NGOs and other
rural financial institutions (RFIs), whose apex body is the Ghana Association of Micro-Financial
Institutions (GHAMFIN), to provide financial services to their clients. This is meant to ensure a
wider coverage especially in remote and poorer areas not serviced by the traditional banking
institutions.

126.     The micro-finance is designedto providefinancing through RFIs on commercial basis, in
order to ensure adequate appraisal of commercial viability o f proposed micro-projects and the
sustainability of the RFIs themselves consistent with the objectives o f the Rural Financial
Services Project (RFSP). Nevertheless, it has been observed that access o f the poor - especially
in food crop farming areas, which constitute a disproportionate share of the poor - to such
financing is constrainedby severalfactors:
    0    Financial market conditions resulting in high interest rates and low outreach of RFIs,
         especially for term investmentsand to activities and clients perceived as risky;
    0    Difficulty mobilizing sufficient equity contribution to qualify for a loan to purchase
         productive assets;
    0    Difficulty servicing debt under current highinterest rates;




                                                  51

    0   The social benefits generatedby certain assets may exceed the returns to private owners
        (e.g., grainmills, stores, irrigation facilities); and
    0   Low entrepreneurial, business planning andmanagement skills.

127.    The project will therefore continue with the matching grant scheme introducedunder the
VIP to address these concerns by:
             0    Targeting poor andvulnerable groups, consistent withthe GPRS;
             0    Targeting assets whose services would enable community members to raise value
                  addedor that would enhance agricultural productivity andmarketing;
             0    Leveraging the 10% contribution by client group (or individual) to reduce the
                  amount to be financed by borrowing;
             0    Facilitating skills training neededto planandmanage activity.

128.    The criteria for eligibility and approval of the use of public funds in the CBRDP for
Matching Grant are based on the principles of overcoming market imperfections and applying
transparent, cost-effective incentives for the poor to mobilize and leverage their resources in
ways that build economically productive assets and skills in poor communities and strengthen,
rather than undermine, private sector developmentto reduce ruralpoverty.

129.    All capital investment activities by enterprises based outside regional capitals would be
eligible for financing through RFIs including private investments that contribute to the
performance of the agricultural sector and those which are linked to some public investment
(such as private fish ponds linked to a community dam). The matching grant is intended to
enable relatively poor communities and clients to take advantage o f these funds, without
restricting the range of other types of private goods and clients that can be financed by RFIs
through the CBRDP Fund. Stand alone working capital loans could be sought from RFIs under
normal market conditions, butnot financed under the CBRDP.

130.    Elementsofthe Micro-CreditMechanism
        (i)Beneficiary project proposal have to be approved for commercial loans by
              participating RFI - Rural Bank, Credit Union and NGO micro-finance institution
              whichwill use 20% of their own funds and can refinance the rest of the loanthrough
              a line of credit to the ARB Apex Bank;
         (ii) areresponsibleforloanrecovery;
              RFIs
         (iii)GHAMFINaccredits and monitors NGOs; ARB Apex Bank monitors rural Banks;
              RICUmonitors all beneficiaries

131.    The terms and conditions under which the ARB Apex Bank will lend the credit funds
under the private goods component to rural financial intermediaries will be spelt out under a
subsidiaryagreementbetweenthe MOFEP andthe ARB Apex Bank.


Flow of Fundsfor CapitalInvestmentsand Capacitybuilding

132.    Project funds will be allocated across on a three-year basis (indicating annual envelopes)
to the Metroplolitan MunicipalandDistrict Assemblies (MMDA) onthe basis of a simple and
transparent formula,'six monthsafter the project becomes effective. The project will initially


                                                     52

finance backlogof eligible public goods that were appraisedduring the implementation ofthe
VIP and CWSP2 butcould not be executeddue to lack of funds. Such sub-projects will be
screening initially by the RPCUs who will thenauthorize their execution. These set ofprojects
will form the initiallearningprocessfor the RPCUs incarryingout reviewprocesses andmaking
sure that the approvedsub-projects conform to the district/AC/Community plans andthey are
carried out inaccordancewithprovisions ofthe implementationmanual.

133.    Futureandsubsequent flow of funds to the districts will bebasedona formula whose
mainparameterswill be poverty index andpopulation to be developedby government with
Bank's assistance. The allocations inthe outertwo years are indicative, whilethe first years
allocation is used for budgetpurposes. This allows the introduction ofmeaningful multi-year
budgetsbyDAsandaccommodatesthe longer leadtimes associatedwithcapital investment
planning.

Planning
134.    The DAs prepare three-year Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which are
approved by the General Assembly and endorsed by RCCs according to the standard practice.
Annual budgets, which include capital spending plans by project and source o f funding, as well
as a schedule for the transfer of capital investment grants into a District DeveZopment Fund
Account is then prepared. The project will use this as a basis for the allocation of funds provided
the plans have beenpreparedwith the participation of the ACs and communities. Incases where
this has not been done, the project will provide support for the preparation of a participatory
developmentplan.

Flow of funds and Project cycle
135.    An upfront disbursement of 25% of the annual grant allocation will be made following
RCC endorsement of the annual work plan to allow spending programmes to be initiated. DAs
will submit monthly reportswhichhavebeen endorsedbythe beneficiary ACs andcommunities.
within 7 working days ofmonth-end, indicating receipts, expenditureandproject progressfor the
current and previous month, as well as projections for the next month. Additional quarterly
disbursements are made in accordance with the agreed transfer schedule. These disbursements
may be withheldiftimely reports are not received.

136.    Revisedthree-year rolling grant allocations are publishedinadvance of the beginning of
the eachfinancial year, andDAs rollingthree-year plans are revisited. The multi-year allocations
and transfer schedules are to be based on the financial year of January 1 to December 31.
Transfers will only be madeto the DistrictDevelopment FundAccount for public goods.

137.    To provide time for MMDAs to achieve compliance with conditions and prepare
adequate plans, disbursementswill rise incrementally over the four year life span of the project.
Firstyear disbursementswill be 30% of the total grant amount, 50% the second year and 20%
the third year. This will be followed by a six month wind-down period to finalise delayed
projects that are already underway. Disbursementswill be made on the basis o f monthly receipt
and expenditure reports, and not on the basis of the submission of original invoices of
expenditure. Theseinvoices must remain DA 'sfor auditingpurposes.




                                                53

Sanctions:

138.     Withholding o ffunds will be the primary form o f sanction applied by the project. This
will be performedbasedonpredetermined andpredictable rules, including:
     o A freeze on all disbursements in the case of delays in submitting any DA financial
         statements to the relevant authority (the C&AG) or the existence o f audit queries. Funds
         will be withheld untilthe relevant issue is resolved.
     o Under-spending o fmore than 70% of that projected inthe transfer schedule will result in
         delay indisbursement untilthis level is reached. Inthe case o f continuedunder-spending
         the funds will be reallocated into the following financial year, but not disbursed. Funds
         that remain undisbursed at the end o f the final year o f the project (including the wind-
         down period) will be forfeited andreallocated to performing districts.

All cost escalations that occur inprojects, resulting from the delay inproject execution will be
bornbythe DA andnotthe grant fund.

Eligibility Criteria
139.     DAswill have to meetthe following eligibility criteria to access project funds:
(i) Earmarks spending to approved capital investments, onthe basis o f a negative list identified
bythe borrower andagreedto byIDA

(ii) three-yeardevelopmentplanandannualbudgethavebeendevelopedinaccordancewith
     The
legislative requirements and through participatory planning processes in close consultation with
sub-structures (zonaVarea councils and committees) and communities and their traditional
authorities and approved by the RCC..

(iii) reportshavebeensubmittedontimeandintherequiredformat.
      Monthly

(iv) Financial statements have been submittedon time and an unqualified audit opinionhas been
issued.

(v) Matching requirements have been met. For household services (water and sanitation), this
entails a 10% matching requirement by household (of which 5% must be a direct household
contribution). For public services (roads, markets), this entails a 10% contribution by the
MMDA.

(vii) Sustainability requirements have been met, through a commitment o f the MMDA to fund
the operations andmaintenance requirements o f the asset through user charges and taxes, which
i s reflected inthe development plan and budget of the authority.

140.     To helpfacilitate disbursement and flow o f funds to the DA, the project will adopt the
90-day advance system available. This would provide a reasonable timeframe within the which
districts that receive advances can account for them. DAs will be requiredto meet an eligibility
criteria set out inthe implementationmanual prior to requestingfor funds and will follow
defined steps to access funds under the project. The steps will include:


                                                  54

   1.      District activities to be financed under the project should be part o fthe district
           development planfor that year and shouldbe an integral part o fthe district's budget
           for the year;
   2.      Onthe basis o fthe approved budget, supported by the development plans for the year,
           districts will detail out their work planrelating to activities to be financed by the
           project and submittedto the RCC for approval;
   3.      The RPCUwill reviewthe DA requests against: i)the criteria set out inthe project
           documents; ii)the approved DA development plans andbudget; iii)the financial
           requirements o fthe work plans consistent with the budget andthe financial
           expectations o fthe budget;
   4.      Onapproval, the DA can initiate the contractingprocess. Whencontract amounts for
           eligible project activities are known, the DA will use it as a basis to request for
           advance fiom the project to enable it effect payments. Where the contract amount is
           above the set threshold, the responsible DA will ensure that the needed approval is
           obtained. Prior to incurringthe expenditure.
   5.      The DA will submit its request on a Request for Advance Form (sample to be
           provided) duly supported by:


           i)      Details o fDA bank account opened for the purpose o fthe project;
           ii)     Details of signatories and authorized persons mandatedto sign on behalf o f
                   DA (ifnot already submitted);
           iii) SixmonthsdetailedcashflowofDA'srequirementsinrespectofthe
                   approved work plan;
           iv)     The procurement plan supporting the planned activities for the year;
           v)      Evidence o fpayment o f DA contribution to cost neededto fundthe work plan
                   for that year;
           vi)     A statement listing all names o f suppliers or contractors to be paid and
                   description o f service.

    6.     Where approvals are required, evidence that they have all been obtained prior to
           incurring expenditures.
    7.     The Ministry will review for consistency andensure all required approvals were all
           obtained. Fundswill be transferredto the districts once the approval process has been
           ascertained.

Flow of Fundsto Communities
141.    Theproject expects to disbursefunds to Area Councils for communities to enable them
implement their sub project activities. The detailed criteria required for Area
Councilslcommunityparticipation and steps for accessing funds will be detailed out inthe
operational manual, These procedures which should be acceptable to IDA, should be simple,
flexible, and ensure free flow o f funds to the Area Councils. They should also include simple
formats for the request o f funds, simple recordkeeping, simple formats for accounting for funds
andeasy monitoringmechanisms.




                                                  55

Auditing Arrangements
142.    Independentandqualified auditors acceptableto the Bank would carry out the annual
financial audit of the project. The financial auditors wouldbe inplaceby effectiveness ofthe
project. It is recognizedthat although it is the responsibility ofthe Auditor Generalof Ghanato
audit these governmententities, agreements would be obtainedfrom himanda qualified private
sector auditor recruitedto carry out this audit. The auditors' reportsandopinions, including the
Managementletter ofthe annual financial audit would be furnishedto the World Bank withinsix
months ofthe close of eachfiscal year.

143.    Anadditional mechanismfor periodic financial reviews ofallparticipating District
assemblieswill be establishedfor effect monitoring purposes.The District Assemblies financial
review, inadditionto the normal financial systems work, will cover the DA's compliance with
all agreedproceduresincluding project eligibility criteria andprocurementrules. The selection
of all auditors and financial consultants shall be on competitive basis inaccordancewiththe
Bank'sandGOGguidelines.

Reportingand Monitoring
144.    Theproject will be requiredto prepareFinancial ~onitoring      Reports (FMRs) on six-
monthly basis, inthe areas of finance andprocurement, including contract details andproject
progress.

   b.            Financial Reports consists of Sources of funds andtheir Uses of Funds, statement
                 ofUses of Fundsby Project Components andActivities, SpecialAccount
                 Reconciliation statement anda six months Project CashForecastwhere needbe;

   C.            ImplementationProaess consistsof Output MonitoringReport on contract
                 Managementsandon Unitof Output by project activity;

   d.            ProcurementManagementconsistsof procurementprocessmonitoringfor goods
                 andworks andthat for consultants' services, andcontract expenditure reports for
                 goods, works andconsultants' services.

145.    The Ministrywill beresponsiblefor submitting the FMRrequiredto beproducedunder
the project. To facilitate this, DAs will be requiredto submit simplified forms of the FMRs to the
Ministry.TheMinistrywill coordinate, collate andconsolidatethe reportsinto aproject wide
FMRandsubmitcopies to the Bank within45 days ofthe endofeach six-months. The contents
andformat ofthe FMRsfor boththe Ministry andDAswouldbe agreeduponat appraisal.

DisbursementArrangements
146.    Theproceedsofthe Credit wouldbe disbursedover a four-year period. A period offour
months after closing date would be allowed to make disbursementsfor expenditures incurredup
to the closing date ofthe Credit.




                                                  56

                                   Amount ofthe
                                   Credit Allocated            % of
                                    (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category                     US$ Equivalent)         to be Financed


(1) Civil Works                         2,245,000        90%

(2)                                     2,500,000        100%of foreign
    I Goods
                                                         expendituresand
                                                         100% o f local
                                                         expenditures (ex
                                                         -factory cost) and
                                                         90% of local
                                                         expendituresfor other
                                                         items procured locally

(3)   Consultants'                      4,600,000        90%
      services, studies andtraining

(4)   Subprojects

        (a) Financedby Grants         32,705,000         90%

        (b) Financedby Advances        11,350,000        70%



(5)   Operating Costs                   1,950,000         90%

(6)   Unallocated                       4,650,000


           TOTAL                      60,O 00,O 00




StatementsofExpenditures(SOE)
147.   Disbursements for all expenditureswould be made against full documentation, except for
items ofexpenditures for: (a)contracts for works inanamount less thanUS$200,000 equivalent;
(b) contracts for goods inan amount of not less thanUS$150,000 (c) contractsfor consulting
firms inan amount less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent; (c) contracts for individual consultants in
anamount less thanUS$50,000 equivalent; and(d) operating costs, whichwould be claimed on
the basisof SOEs. All supportingdocumentation for SOEs wouldberetainedat avarious
District Assembly locations andmade readily accessible for reviewby periodic IDA supervision
missions, financial reviews andexternal auditors.


                                                57

Special Account
148.   To facilitate disbursements,the MLGRDwill opena US$ SpecialAccount at a
commercial bank, underterms and conditions satisfactoryto the IDA.UponCredit effectiveness,
a sumof US$2m would be depositedby the IDA into this account. Furtherdeposits would be
made into the account against withdrawal applications supportedby appropriate documentation
bythe implementing entity.




                                              58

                             Annex 8. ProcurementArrangements
                      GHANA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment

Ghana's ProcurementEnvironment

149.   ProcurementinGhanais ina reform stage. The Parliament of Ghana approvedthe Public
Procurement Bill on December 18, 2003 and the President signed it into a Public Procurement
Act December 31, 2003. Preparation of the bill began in2000 and initially it was presented to
Parliament in November 2002. The Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) invited public
input in March 2003 and received comments from a broad cross-section of stakeholders,
includingthe Bank. The Billwas widely discussed inthe media, inroundtable conferences, and
inmeetingswiththe PAC. The final version ofthe Public ProcurementAct is assessedas agood
UNICTRAL-based procurement law.

150.    The Act includes most of the features of good public procurement practice i.e., (i)
effective and wide advertising of upcoming procurement opportunities; (ii) opening of
                                                                              public
bids; (iii)
          pre-disclosureof all relevant information including transparentandclear bidevaluation
and contract award procedures; (iv) clear accountabilities for decision making with segregation
of executive and oversight responsibilities; and (v) an enforceable right of review for bidders
whenpublic entities breachthe rules. The Government is also preparing a set of StandardTender
Documents and Standard Request for Proposals to be used in the country. The Public
Procurement Act is comprehensive and covers all procurement in Central Management
Agencies, Ministries, Departments and Agencies and in Metropolitan, Municipal and District
Assemblies.

151. The Bank carried out a Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) in2003. The
main findings of the CPAR include: (i) of a comprehensive legal framework; (ii) of
                                           lack                                            use
merit point system for evaluating bids for works contracts; (iii) of "bracketing" (rejection of
                                                                 use
bids outside a range of values) for evaluating bids for works contracts; (iv) excessive use of
single source; (v) repetitive use of same firms under selective tendering procedures; (vi) lack of
procurement planning; (vii) poor record keeping; (viii) weak oversight of procurement; (ix) poor
contract management; (x) weak procurement capacity; and (xi) weak commitment control
leading to contract payment arrears. The action plans of the CPAR will be agreed with
government in early 2004. The key action of the CPAR, the implementation of the Public
Procurement Act, establishment and operationalization of the Public Procurement Institutions
(ProcurementBoard and its Secretariat, Entity Tender Committees and Tender ReviewBoards)
are part of the triggers for the proposed Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2),
which is scheduledfor BoardPresentationinMay 2004. The Procurement Procedures under the
project will be describedinthe Project Implementation Manual (PIM), a first draft of which will
be ready by appraisal. The procurement arrangements in the PIM will be harmonized to the
extent possible with the provisions in the Public Procurement Act to ensure that MLGRD, the
RCCs and the Assemblies are not overburdenedwith the use o f different procedures, depending
on the source of funding. The bill contains different thresholds for `(one stop" procurement
review on different levels, such as at the level of the Regional Tender Review Board and the
Central Tender Review Board.




                                                59

Use of Bank Guidelines
152.    All works and goods fmanced under the IDA credit will be procured inaccordancewith
the Guidelines:Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised
in January andAugust 1996,September 1997andJanuary 1999. Consultants will be selectedin
accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be in accordance with the Public
Procurement Act and will include: (a) an explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and
award criteria; (b) national advertising with public bidopening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated
responsive and qualified bidder and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded fiom
participation in NCB. Registratiodclassification of contractors may be used for establishing
bidder qualification or for preparing a list for use under price comparison procedure but not as
criteria for bidding. With the exception of complex information systems, the merit point system
shall not be used as the basis of bid evaluation. "Bracketing" or rejection of bids outside a range
or "bracket" of bidvalues shall not bepermitted.

153.    No International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for works contracts are expected under the
project, however, the Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments(SBD) will be used for all ICB goods
contracts and ICB works contracts, if any. The SBD will also be used, with appropriate
modification, for all NCB. The Bank's StandardRequest for Proposals (SRFP) would be used for
all consulting assignments. All the implementing agencies (MLGRD, RCCs, and Assemblies)
should ensure that each time they are using the most current version of the appropriate SBD or
SRFP and standard forms of evaluation. Less competitive bidding and selection procedures
should notbe usedas an expedientto by-passmore competitive methods and fiactioning of large
procurements into smaller ones should not be done solely to allow the use of less competitive
methodsor to avoid Tender Boardor IDA review.

Advertising

 154.   A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN
Development Business as provided under the Guidelines and in Development Gateway Market
(DgMarket). The GPN would show all ICB and all consulting services estimated to cost USD
200,000 or more. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be
procured under ICB and NCB procedures and for consultant contracts (estimated to cost more
than USD100,OOO) to obtain expressions of interest (EOI) prior to the preparation ofthe shortlist.
The SPNs will (as a minimum) be published in a newspaper of wide national circulation. All
ICBs and consultant contracts estimated to cost USD200,OOO or more shall be advertised in
Development Business online and inDgMarket. Sufficient time would be allowed (not less than
six weeks for ICB and not less than 30 days for NCB and 14 days for EOI) to allow adequate
time for biddersandconsultantsto obtain documentsandrespondappropriately.




                                                 60

ProcurementCapacity

155.     The District Assemblies have considerable experience in implementing Bank and other
donor financed projects (including the predecessor project - Village Infrastructure Project ITF
Cr. N020) and have the capacity to carry out procurement under the project. Under the
predecessor project, a Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU) with four Zonal Offices
was created. Under CBRD, the role of the RICU will continue, with emphasis on coordination
and mentoring of staff of the District Assemblies. RICU zonal offices will work under the
supervision of the RCCs. RICU and its Zonal offices are staffed with qualified engineers, who
are familiar with Bank procurement and consultant selection policies and procedures and can
provide adequate support to the District Assemblies and MLGRD who will be directly
responsible for procurement under the project. Most of the RICU engineers and other staff have
attendedthe Bank-supported regional procurement course at the GhanaInstitute for Management
andPublic Administration (GIMPA). Severalof the Planners, Works Engineers andAccountants
inthe Assemblies have also attendedvarious procurementworkshops organizedbythe Bankand
procurement training under various Bank financed projects e.g. the SecondCommunity Water &
SanitationProject, UrbanV Project andthe Village Infrastructure Project.

156.     The summary assessment shows a "High risk" for the project and the prior review
thresholds have been set to reflect this rating. The procurement risk rating i s "High" mainly
because of the large number of procuring entities (about 138) under the project. Procurement
Post Reviews (PPRs) will be carried out annually by Bank staff andor independent auditors and
based on the findings of the reviews; the prior review thresholds will be reviewed. The main
risks identified are: (i)inadequate monitoring; (ii)weak contract management; (iii)poor
commitment control; (iv) inadequate post qualification requirements in bidding documents; (v)
inadequate capacity I overloading of consultants and contractors; (vi) delays in processing
procurement and payments; (vii) political interference; and (viii) poor public perception of DAs.
The actions plannedto address the deficiencies are includedinthe project activities and include
(i)further training oftheDAs, TenderReviewBoards, RCC andMLGRDofficials inthe
application of the procurement procedures - this training will complement the nationwide
training effort to be launched as part of the operationalization of the Public Procurement Act.
The training will also be coordinated with procurement training under other Bank financed
operations which are being implementedby the Assemblies; (ii) of standard processing
                                                                    setting
times; (iii)establishment of semiannual reporting requirements; (iv) establishment of a contract
performance support system; (v) institutionalization of annual procurement audits; (vi) annual
review of prior review thresholds based on findings of the procurement post reviews; and (vii)
enforcement ofremedies ifGovernment does not take appropriate sanctions against officials who
flout the agreedprocedures.

157.     A project workshop will be heldinAugust or September2004 for key staff of MLGRD,
the RCCs and the participating Assemblies as well as membersof the tender reviewboards at the
district, regional and national levels. The project workshop will include sessions on B a M u b l i c
procurement. The focus will be to orient key staff on the principles of good public procurement
practice and to discuss the procurement arrangements under the project. The project launch
workshop will reinforce these messages. The project also includes funding for key staff in
MLGRD, the RCCs andthe Assemblies to attendBank supportedregional procurement training
in GIMPA or ESAMI. Other areas of training supported under the project include contract


                                                 61

management, recordkeeping andproject management. Inaddition, aprocuring entity may, on its
ownvolition or upon advice or instructionfrom an oversightlreview body, hire Consultants (firm
or individual) to provide procurement services.

ProcurementPlans

158.    Each Assembly, RCC and MLGRD will prepare an annual work plan containing a
procurement plan. MLGRD will consolidate the procurement plans and submit it to IDA for
review. The procurement plan will be for the first eighteen months of the project showing
individual contract packages, and for each package its estimated cost, procurement method and
processing times for key activities until completion. The annual procurement plan for the first
l8-month period will be completed in October, 2004 as part of the 2005 budget. Three
months prior to the start of each subsequent fiscal year, MLGRDwill submitupdatedversions of
the procurement plans in respect o f the following eighteenmonths to IDA. IDA will review the
procurement plans on a sample basis. The tender committees of the procurement entities shall
ensure that the procurement plans are publishedinthe Procurement Bulletin inaccordance with
the Public ProcurementAct.

159.    Any revisions to the formally agreed procurement plan shall require the concurrence of
entity tender committee. The implementing agencies shall apply the most competitive method of
procurement appropriate to the circumstances o f the specific procurement as described in the
project operational manual and Table B below. Implementing agencies may select a more
competitive method for a particular procurement if they wish to do so, however, IDA
concurrencewill be requiredto use a less competitive method other than the one set out inTable
B below and the agreed Procurement Plan. Absence of this concurrence may result in
misprocurement,

160.    Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the
basis of approved annual programs. The programs will identifythe general framework of training
and similar activities for the year, including the nature of traininglstudy tourslworkshops, the
numberofparticipants, andcost estimates,

ProcurementImplementationArrangements
161.    (See also "Institutional Responsibilities for Implementation" in Annex 6). As a rule,
procurement implementation will be decentralized with each Assembly, RCC and MLGRD
responsible for their own procurement. However, for reasons of economy and efficiency, one or
more implementing agencies may delegate authority to one lead agency with adequate capacity
to bethe procuring entity for aparticular tender package.

Scope ofProcurementandProcurementmethods
162.    Contracts for civil works estimatedto cost individually USD 2.0 million or more would
be procured using ICB procedures. No ICB works contracts are expected under the project.
Works estimated to cost between USD 2.0m and USD 50,000 equivalent per contract shall be
procured using NCB procedures. Very small contracts estimated to cost less than USD 50,000
equivalent may be procured by way of soliciting quotations through written invitations from not
less than three qualified contractors. RegistratiodClassification of contractors may be used to
identify contractors for such very small contracts. The invitation shall include a detailed


                                                62

description of the works, basic specifications, the required completion date, a simple form of
agreement acceptableto the Bank, andrelevant drawings. Inall cases the award of contract shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract within the contract period taking
into consideration all currentlfuture commitments. All procuring entities will be requiredto carry
out due diligence and verify that the qualification information provided by the contractor
recommendedfor the works is accurate.

163.   To the extent possible, goods that could be procured from one supplierwould be grouped
into contract packages, and packages estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 250,000 or more
would be procured under ICB procedures. Procurement of goods packages estimated to cost
more than USD 30,000 but less than USD 250,000 would be procured using NCB procedures.
Goods packages estimated to cost less than USD 30,000 would be procured by shopping on the
basis of comparison of quotations from at least three eligible and qualified suppliers. Requests
for such quotations will include a clear description and quantity of the goods, as well as
requirementsfor deliverytime andpoint ofdelivery.

164.    Software, spare parts and accessories which are of proprietary nature may with IDA
concurrence, be procured under contracts negotiateddirectly with the manufactureslsuppliers or
their authorizedagents.

165.    Consulting Services and Training will consist of various engineering and design studies,
construction supervision and technical assistance to be carried out by both national and
international consultantsas well as workshops and group discussions. As a rule, consulting firms
for all assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of USD100,OOO or more will be selected
though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. For assignments costing less
thanUSD100,000, QCBS, SelectionUnderaFixedBudget (SFB) or Least-Cost Selection(LCS)
proceduresmay be used provided the assignment meets the requirementsof paragraph3.5 inthe
case o f SFB and paragraph 3.6 inthe case of LCS of the Procurement guidelines. Assignments
estimated to cost the equivalent of USD200,OOO or more would be advertised for EO1 in
Development Business (UNDB), in DgMarket and in at least one newspaper of wide national
circulation. In addition, EO1 for specialized assignments may be advertised in an international
newspaper or magazine. Inthe case of assignments estimatedto cost less thanUSD200,000 but
more than USDlO0,OOO the assignment would be advertisednationally. The shortlist of firms for
assignments estimated to cost less than USD200,OOO may be made up entirely of national
consultants ifat least three qualified firms are available at competitive costs inGhana. However,
foreign consultants who wish to participate should not be excluded from consideration.
Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of USD50,OOO may be contracted
by comparing the qualifications o f consultants. Auditors would be selected using LCS
procedures. Incase o f assignments requiring individual consultants, the selection will follow the
proceduresstipulated inSection V ofthe Consultants Guidelines.

 166.   Training programs and workshops would be packaged in the project's work plans and
budget anditemstherein procured using appropriatemethods. IDA will reviewand clear training
packagesas found appropriate.




                                                 63

167.    Contracts that meet the requirements o f paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines
may be procured using Community Participatioflorce Account. The detailed procedures when
using community participation will be detailed inthe PIM.

IDA Review

168.    All works contracts estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more and goods contracts
estimated to cost USD 150,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's prior review inaccordance
withthe proceduresinAppendix Iofthe ProcurementGuidelines.Any amendments to existing
contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior reviewthresholds are subject
to IDA review. All contracts awarded on the basis of direct contracting will require prior review
andclearanceofIDA.

169.    All single source selection will be subject to IDA prior review. Consultancy contracts
with firms with estimated value of USD 100,000 or more, and consultancy contracts with
individuals estimated value of USD 50,000 or more will be subject to prior review by IDA in
accordance with the procedures inAppendix Iof the Consultants Guidelines.All out-of-country
traininglworkshops will be subject to IDA review.

170.    Contracts that are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank
during project implementation andwill be governedby the proceduresset forth inparagraph4 of
Appendix Ito the relevant Guidelines,Monitoring andevaluation ofprocurementperformance at
all Implementing Agencies would be carried out for procurement during IDA supervision
missions andthrough annual ex-post procurementaudits. At aminimum, 1out of 5 contractswill
be subject to post review. Inaddition, post reviews of in-country training will be conductedfrom
time to time to review the selection of institutions/facilitators/course contentsltrainees and
justifications thereof, and costs incurred. Annual independent technical audits (ex-post
procurement audits) would: (a) verify that the procurement and contracting procedures and
processes followed for the projects were inaccordance withthe Development Credit Agreement
(DCA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness of each
contract in the selected representative sample; (c) review and comment on contract
administration and management issues as dealt with by participating agencies; (d) review
capacity of participating agencies in handling procurement efficiently; and (e) identify
improvements in the procurement process in the light of any identified deficiencies. The
Borrower and IDA will review all thresholds stated in this section on an annual basis.
Amendments may be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of procurement
implemented.Amendmentsto the DCA may beproposedaccordingly.

Publicationof ResultsandDebriefing

171.    Publication o f results of the bidding process will be requiredfor all ICBs, NCBs, LIBs
and Direct Contracting. Publication should take place as soon as the no objection is received,
except for Direct Contracting and NCB that may be done quarterly and in a simplified format.
For selection of consultants disclosure of results i s also required. All consultants competing for
the assignment should be informed of the result of the technical evaluation (number o f points
that each firm received) before the opening o f the financial proposals, and at the end of the
selection process the results should be published. The publication of results in selection of


                                                 64

consultants applies to all methods, however for SBCQ and SSS the publication may be done
quarterly and in a simplified format. MLGRD and the Assemblies shall debrief losing
bidderslconsultants on the reasons why they were not awarded the contract, if the losing
bidderslconsultantsrequest an explanation.

Fraud, Coercion and Corruption

172.     All procuring entities as well as BidderslSupplierslContractors shall observe the highest
standardof ethics during the procurement and execution of contracts financed under the project
inaccordancewith paragraphs 1.15 & 1.16 of the ProcurementGuidelinesand paragraphs 1.25
& 1.26 ofthe ConsultantsGuidelines.


                          Table A: ProjectCostsby ProcurementArrangements
                                            (US$ million equivalent)


                                             Procurement Method'

     Expenditure
       Category                ICB            NCB            Other'            N.B.F.         Total Cost

1. Works                         0.00           8.00            3.OO              4.59            13.00
                               (0.00)          (8.00)          (3.00)           (0.00)           (11.OO)
2. Goods                         0.30           0.40            1.89              1.51             4.00
                                (0.30)         (0.45)          (0.90)           (0.00)            (2.70)
3. Consulting                    0.00           0.00            5.00              0.00             5.00
Services
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (5.00)           (0.00)            (5.00)
4A. Subproject Grant             0.00          15.50           10.90              0.00            26.40
                                (0.00)        (15.50)         (10.90)           (0.00)           (26.40)
4B Subproject                    0.00           0.00           17.64                              17.64
Advances
                                (0.00)         (0.00)         (12.60)                            (12.60)
4. Operating Cost                0.00           0.00            3.90  '           0.00             3.90
                               (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.30)           (0.00)            (2.30)
                 Total           0.30         24.80           42.33               6.10            73.94
                               (0.30)        (24.5 0)        (34.70)            (0.00)           (60.00)
*figures may slightly differ due to rounding.

 Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be financed bythe Credit. All costs include contingencies.
 Includescivil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, services of
contractedstaff ofthe projectmanagement office, training, technical assistance services, and incrementaloperating
costs relatedto (i)
                  managingthe project, and(ii)re-lending project funds to localgovernmentunits.




                                                       65

                Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review




                                 >=2,000,000                       ICB                All contracts

                           >=50,000 - 2,000,000                   NCB            All contracts>=200,000

                                   <50,000                  Price Comparison              None

                                   All values               Directcontracting         All contracts
Goods and Services               >=250,000                         ICB                All contracts
other than
Consulting Services        >=30,000 - <250,000                    NCB            All contracts>= 150,000

                                    <30,000                     Shopping                  None

                                   All values               Direct Contracting         All contracts
Consulting Services           >= 100,000 firms                    QCBS                 All contracts

                            Below 100,000, firms          QCBS/LCS/SFB/SBCQ                None

                            >=50,000 individuals                Individual             All contracts

                            <50,000, individuals                Individual                 None

                                   All values             Single-SourceSelection       All contracts



       OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:


                      Average
                      Low


       Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 6 month(s)
       (includes procurement workshops and training)




All single source contractswill be subjectto prior review,


                                                       66

                           Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                        GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment

Summary

173.    Theproject comprises five componentsofwhich four wouldhavedirect economic or
social impact onthe beneficiaries. The total investment inthese componentscorrespondsto
US$45.4 million. Forty percento fthis investmentwould have identifiedimmediate economic
impact. Global economic rate ofreturn (ERR) for the identifiedeconomic investment is about
58% with net presentvalue (NPV) of $81.9 million. The global ERR for the economic
investments plus 40% of costs of training and studies i s 52% with NPV of $78.9 million. The
global ERRandNPV decline to 48% and $76.2 millionrespectively whenthe cost of project
managementis included.

Financialandeconomic impactof investmentcomponents

174.    Infrastructure for agricultural develoomentis the most important componentofthe
project requiring an investmentof 36% of the project's $60 millionbudget. This componentwill
finance construction of dams, dugouts, roads andintermediate means of transport. All the water-
basedactivities are essentialfor the rural economy since irrigation allows farmers to extendthe
growing season andemploy improved technology. The financial benefit-cost ratio o fdugouts
newly constructedis 2.6. The incremental benefit-cost ratio for the dugouts rehabilitatedis
evaluatedat 1.7 (Table 1). The ERRequals to 15% and 12%respectively. The project will
construct andrehabilitate dams for irrigation (each dam is expectedto irrigate 5 hectaresof
land). The benefit-cost for these activities equals 1.3 and 1.5; andthe ERR 33% and 35%
respectively. The componentwill invest also inpromotionofwind pumps for irrigation. The
financial benefit from windpumpsfor irrigationdependsonthe producedharvest. The crops
most frequently cultivated ingardens are tomato and onion. Assuming that they are cultivated in
the same proportion, the benefit-cost ratio for these combination of crops equals 1.5, with an
ERRof20%.

175.    Absence of convenient roadnetwork linking farms andvillages withmarkets is one ofthe
origins o f low productivity ofrural enterprises. Construction of a newroad or improvement of an
existing farm path increasesproductivityandreduces headportage. The project will finance spot
improvement of over 150kilometers of feeder roads, itwill also upgradeor construct 450 kmof
village tracks andtrails. All three activities have highcost-benefit ratio (between 2.6 and 5.4)
andtheir ERRexceeds 32%. The provisionof donkey andox carts andpowertillers should
alleviate the headportageof goods andincreasemobility of farmers. The component will finance
equipmentfor animaltraction andpurchaseofsingle axle tractors. The estimatedbenefit-cost of
donkey carts i s 1.4, that ofox cart 1.7 and ofpower tiller 1.4. The corresponding ERR are 26%,
46% and38%. The total project investment inthese activities is $9.0 million. The remaining
$12.9 millionwill be investedinas yet undetermineddemand-drivenprojects of similar ERR.

 176.   RuralEnterprise andLearningCenters. The project will assist learningcenters to
provide skilldevelopmentoutside a formal education system. Once createdand operational, the
learning centers will contribute to the creation of a network ofprofessionalsthus helping rural


                                                  67

entrepreneurs and farmers improve production standards, marketing andpromotion. The learning
centers will generate important economical benefits, however, at the present stage of their
implementationinGhanait i s difficult to evaluatetheir direct economic benefit.

177.     Other micro-enterprisesto be supportedincludefish smoking, warehouse construction,
crib for maize storage, barns for yam storageandslaughterhouses insmall towns andvillages.
All these micro-projects are financially viable with benefit-costratiosranging between1.1and
3.4 andERRsbetween 14% and31%. About 0.5% ofthe component's cost will be investedin
drying floors, mudsilos, enclosures for animals andfishlanding sites. All these investments are
useful andimportant for a rural economy, but their economic value i s difficult to estimate.

178. The infrastructure for social andhumandevelopment component targets improving the
quality of life of the rural poor. The activities cover improvement of water supply and
rehabilitation (or construction) of social facilities, Borehole construction, borehole rehabilitation
andinstallation ofvillage pipe systems for water distribution will absorb 46% ofthe
component's investment. All three activities have important financial and economic impacts. The
cost-benefitratio for borehole constructionand boreholerehabilitation is 1.7 and 1.2
respectively, withERRso f22% and 18% (Tablel). These benefits result from time savings due
to shorteningofthe distance betweenthe householdandthe source of water. The benefit from
the pipesystem depends oncharge for water. Also, the component will finance (about 7% ofits
investment)suchactivities as rain-water harvesting, springdevelopmentandhanddug wells. The
financial andeconomic impacts of these activities were not evaluateddue to lack of details of
their implementation. The remaining budget of the component will be spent on construction or
rehabilitation ofhealthclinics, nutritioncenters, nurses' quarters, classrooms, andhousehold
toilets. All these activities have an important social impact and substantialpositive long-term
economic consequences that are difficult to quantify.

179.     The community-basednaturalresourcesmanagementcomponent will promote
sustainableuse of natural resourceandenhance community involvement innaturalresource
conservationthrough promotionoftheir integratedmanagementandthrough developmentof
naturalresource-basedenterprises. Equipmentwill beprovidedto enablerural communities to
improve managemento f natural resources. Natural resourcebasedcottage industry,tree
plantation, eco-tourism and firefighting are amongthe proposedactivities, Since the natural
resourcebasedrevenue-generatingactivities are relative new inGhana, and sincethe choice of
the micro-projects will be decidedduring project implementation, we have estimatedthe benefit
for a sample of five activities: teak-tree plantation, teak nursery, snail farming, grasscutter
farming andbeekeeping. According`to the available data, allthese activities are highly profitable
andtheir benefit-cost ratios rangebetween 1.8 and9.8, with ERRsbetween76% and 135%.

180.     The investment inthe directly productive activities represents 65% of the component's
budget. The remaining 35% will be investedindatabase creation, printers, transport facilities and
experimentalequipmentwith difficult to estimate longterm benefits.

SensitivityAnalysis
181.     A sensitivity analysis was conductedto determine the responsesofthe components and
the whole project to changes inexternal factors @ices), andto identifythe extent of change in



                                                    68

these variable that would makethe components or the project unacceptable, i.e. an ERRo f 12%
or less andNPV equal to zero). The project's ERRis not sensitive to 20% fall inbenefits or
20% increase ininputs costs. The ERRo fthe individual components also remained over the
threshold o f 12%ifeither benefits were reduced or inputcosts increased by 20%.

182.     Among the individualcomponents, the most sensitive to these changes was the
Infrastructure for social and human development component that becomes unviable when the
costs increase over 25% or the benefits decreaseby 28%. A proper pricing for the water provided
bythe activities financed bythis component would ensuremore resistance to these shocks.

183.     Increase o f costs o f inputsby 28% or drop o fbenefits by 54% will affect the viability of
the Rural enterprise and learning centers component since the component's activities require
more investment inconstructions and inprocessing equipment. Tighter management o fthe
constructed premisesand better exploitationo fproduction equipment should increase the
viability ofthe component.

184.     The activities under the In~astructure for a ~ i c u l t u r adevelopment component are
                                                                        ~
relatively robust and independent o f changes ininputprices and inbenefits since their
productivity depends largely onthe natural soil fertility (irrigation schemes) or geographic
conditions (roads, water availability) both independent on economic factors.

185.     Finally, the Communi~-basednatural resource management co~ponent,successfully
resists external shocks since it demands little investment and is strongly supported by the nature
itself. Ifthe project is able to implement them successfully, the economical impact o fthis
component andthe whole project would be very positive. However, implementationo f such
activities as tree plantingi s subject to some legislative arrangements concerning ownership over
the lands and forests, andthe natural resource based farming i s yet practiced on a limited, half
experimental scale.

 186. A one-year unpredicteddelay between investment inactivities and beginningof
exploitationwill not affect the viability ofthe components, However, a two-year delay will make
uneconomic the Infrastructure for social and human development component andthree years the
Rural enterprise and learning center components. The risks o f such significant delays in
implementation ofthe project's activities is low since Ghana has now experience of the
preceding VIP project that prepared farmers to formulate micro-projects andtrained the
decentralized administration inrapid handlingo f farmer's proposals.




                                                   69

Table 1. Estimated Net Present Values and Economic Rates of Returns (ERR) ofProject Activities.

                                                                                             Total
                                                            Investper unit                Investment in
Componentand activities                  Unit     Number         in$      NPV in$    ERR     $'OOO
                         Component(b) Infrastructurefor agricultural development
Dugout construction                    One unit      10         50,000      5,014     15%     500
Dugoutrehabilitation                   One unit      10         30,000        53      12%     300
Dam construction                       One unit      10         14,000    1,14 1,493  33%      140
Damrehabilitation                      One unit      10         6,000      489,211    34%      60
Wind pump                              One unit      6          35,000     18,929     20%     210
Spot improvement                         K m         150        8,000       3,007     33%     1,200
VTT upgrading                            K m        400         10,000      13,453    42%    4,000
VTT construction                         K m         50         15,000      18,476    39%     750
Donkey cart                            One unit     600          300         179      26%      180
Ox cart                                One unit     600          500         770      46%     300
Powertiller                            One unit     450         3,000        1,856    38%     1,350
Total                                                                     11,331,545  37%     8,990

                       Component(c) Rural enterprises developmentand learning centers
Crib                                   One unit      300         200          53      25%      60
Yam barn                               One unit      300         200          79      3 1%     60
Warehousefor maize                     One unit      60         5,000        512      14%      300
Warehousefor inputs                    One unit      60         5,000       2,385     19%      300
Fishsmoking facilities                 One unit      20         30,000     41,311     3 1%     600
Slaughter house                        One unit       5         50,000     20,803     18%      250
Total                                                                     3,227,301   28%     1,570

                        Component(d) Infrastructure for social andhumandevelopment
Borehole new                           One unit      750        6,000        2,085    22%     4,500
Borehole rehabilitation                One unit      100        3,000        603      18%      300
Pipe system                            One unit       2        200,000        23      12%      400
Total                                                                      1,623,982  21%     5,200


                        Component(e) Community-basednaturalresource management
Teak plantation                           Ha       2000          500         3,372    69%     1,000
Teak nursery                           One unit      15         16,000     265,233    74%      240
Snail farming                          One unit      50         20,468     234,260    115%    10,230
Grasscutter farming                    One unit      50         3,584       87,479    135%     179
Beekeeping                             One unit      50         3,442       13,688    76%      172
Total                                                                     65,678,258  90%     2,614

Total analyzedeconomicactivities                                          81,911,087  58%     18,374




                                                     70

Table 2. Sensitivity Analysis of Project ERRto selectedrisks

                                                       Projectcomponents
                                                                Socialand
                                           Infi.agr. Ruralent.   human     Nat.res.
                                           dev. (b)    (c)         (4     mana. (e) Project
Basecase                                      37       28          21       90        55

Scenario I Output-sidesensitivity
20% fall inbenefits                           30       23          14       87        50
Switchingvalue                                56       54          25       96        77

Scenario I1Input-sidesensitivity
20% increase incosts                          28       17          15        86       48
Switchingvalue                                64       28          28       660      156

Scenario 111. Delays inactivities implementation
Implementationdelayed 1 year                  29       22          17        83       51
Implementationdelayed2 years                  23       16          11        78       44
Implementationdelayed3 years                   17      12           6        59       34




                                                     71

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                        GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment
Background
187.    Likeother Bank projects, community-driven development(CDD) projects mustcomply
withthe ten SafeguardPoliciesandthe policy onDisclosure ofOperationalInformation.
Safeguardpolicy issues are relevant to CDD projects because they sometimes finance sub-
projects, which could cause adverse environmental or social impacts. Evenincases where
individualCDD sub-projects have little or no adverse impacts, they may collectively leadto
significant cumulative impacts (e.g. the impact of many small-scale activities involving irrigation
or the use of pesticidesinagricultural projects). Where none o fthe details ofthe sub-projects to
be financed are known inadvance, CDD projects are usually classified inEA category FI.

Findings
188.    A screeningofthe project's environmental andsocial impactswas takenat the early stage
ofproject preparation andthis preliminary exerciserevealedthat two (2) ofthe Bank's Safeguard
policies namely OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement)
may be triggered. Compliance with OP 4.01 and OP 4.12 i s achievedthrough the preparation of
a framework for screening andassessing the potential environmental and social impacts of future
sub-projects.

189.    The GhanaCommunity-Based Rural DevelopmentProject is acommunity-driven
developmentproject whose future micro-projects are unknown, but as illustrated inthe sections
onProject Descriptioncould bevery wide inscope. Inorder to protect the environment andall
segments o fpopulations from potential impacts, anEnvironmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) and a ResettlementPolicy Framework (RPF) have been preparedas a
screeningmechanismfor eachmicro-project as it is proposedto the districtassemblies(DAs)
andArea Councils (ACs). The RPF also establishesthe resettlement andcompensation
principles, organizational arrangementsanddesign criteria to be applied to meet the needs ofthe
people who may be affected by the project. The RPF has beenpreparedto the standards ofthe
Government's ownpolicy onresettlement andcompensationandthe policy ofthe World Bank,
When specific planning information onthe subprojects becomesavailable andthe landareas
affectedare identified, individual subprojectresettlementandor compensationplans will be
preparedconsistent withthe RPF andwill be submittedto the Bankfor approval before any land
acquisition, resettlement, loss, denial of, andrestriction to landand any other economic resources
or any other impact on livelihoodoccurs.

190.    The RPF covers the following sections:
e   Principles andobjectives governing resettlement preparation andimplementation.
    A description ofthe processfor preparing and approving resettlement plans.
e   Landacquisitionand likely categoriesofimpact.
0   Eligibilitycriteria for defining various categories ofproject affected persons.
e   A legal framework reviewing the fit between the laws and regulations of Ghana and Bank
    policy requirements andmeasures proposedto bridge any gaps betweenthem.
0   Methods ofvaluing affectedassets.




                                                 72

e  Organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements, including, for projects involving
   private sector intermediaries, the responsibilities of the financial intermediary, the
   government, andthe private developer.
e  A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement implementation to civil
   works.
e  A description ofthe grievance redress mechanisms.
e  A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement, including the preparation and
   reviewofcost estimates, the flow offunds, andcontingencyarrangements.

Institutionalarrangementsfor safeguard compliance

191.    The project will support the training of staffof key stakeholdersincludingthe Ministry of
Local Government and Rural Development, Regional Administration, DAs and ACs and other
stakeholders in environmental and social impact assessment, implementation and monitoring of
audits, mitigationand managementplans. It is expected that these trained staff, incollaboration
withthe regional offices ofthe Environmental ProtectionAgency, will screen for environmental
and social impacts prior to commencementof sub-projects likely to cause any negative impacts.
Where screening reveals the need for a full-scale project-specific Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) or Resettlement Plan (RP), the DA andor AC will contract out the preparation
of the EIA and RP to competent individuals or consultancy firms, whose outputs will be
reviewed and approved by the EPA. The project will be implemented within the context of
existing prescribednational environmental standards and safeguards (environmental assessment
framework) andthe Environmental ProtectionAgency Act (Act 490), giving responsibility to the
EPA to ensure compliance with any laid down environmental impact assessment procedures in
the planning and execution of developmentprograms andprojects.

192.    The MLGRD, in consultation with EPA, will report, within the broad framework of
project M&E on (i)    compliance with the measures agreed with the Bank on the basis of the
findings andresults o fproject-specific EIAsandRPs, (ii) status o fremediation measures, and
                                                           the
(iii)findings  of monitoring programs. The Government o f Ghana fully understands that
monitoring information would assist to evaluate success of mitigation measures as part of the
overall project supervision, and allow corrective actions to be taken when needed. The M&E of
the environmental mitigation and resettlement management plans would be integrated with the
project's overall design, budget, implementation and M&E.

Stakeholder ConsultationlPublic Disclosure
193.    During the project identification and the ESMF and RPF preparation processes MLGRD
consulted widely with project-affected groups and individuals, community-based organizations
(CBOs) about the project's environmentaland social aspects andtook their views into account in
finalizing these reports. The Borrower's implementing agencies will continue the consultation
process with such groups throughout the project's implementationas necessary to address EIA-
andresettlement-relatedissues that affect them. MLGRDhas disclosedthe two reports widely to
project-affected groups, CBOs andNGOs.




                                                 73

                      Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                      GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment

                                                  Planned            Actual
PCNreview                                   September 24,2003
InitialPIDto PIC                            December 12,2003
InitialISDS to PIC                          December 12,2003
Appraisal                                 March29-April9,2004
Negotiations                                April 19-22,2004
BoardRVP approval                              July 27,2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                September 10,2004
Planneddate o fmid-termreview              February5 -23,2007
Plannedclosing date                          February 15,2009

Key institutions responsiblefor preparationofthe project:
MinistryofLocalGovernmentandRuralDevelopment
RuralInfrastructure Coordinating Unit(RICU)

Bank staff andconsultantswho worked onthe project included:
Name                                          Title                  Unit
C. Annor-Frempong                 Snr Agricultural Specialist,     AFTS4
                                      Task Team Leader
K,Awanyo                          Snr ProcurementSpecialist        AFTQP
F.Yankey                          FinManagement Specialist         AFTQF
V. Srivastava                     Snr Pub. Sector Mgmt Spec        AFTPR
S. Manikowski                              Economist               Consultant
S. Bekure                           Agricultural Economist         Consultant
R.Ampadu                                 Team Assistant             AFTS4
J. Ellong                         LanguageProgram Assistant         AFTS4
N.Kotschoubey                      Environmental Specialist        Consultant
E.Dwumfour                       NaturalResource Mgmt. Spec.        AFTS4
Serigne Omar Fye                  Sr. Environmental Specialist      AFTS1
P. Mensah                           Agricultural Economist          AFTS4
K.Hudes                                Sr. LegalCounsel            LEGAF
D.Savage                         Sr. Municipal Devt. Specialist    EWDSA
T. J. Ramin                        Sr. Social Devt. Specialist       RVP
R. Selvaratnam                        Sr. Program Assistant         AFTS4
K.B.Agyen                            Sr. Operations Officer         AFTPS
E.Awittor                         Operations Officer - Health       AFTH2
MariaManuela Faria                         Temporary               EXTCD
EmanueleSanti                     Communications Associate         EXTCD

Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: $128,358
    2, Trust funds: $200,000
    3. Total: $328,358


                                               74

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: $10,000
   2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: $100,000




                                            75

              Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
          GHANA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment

                   \

a. StudiesConductedwith JapanesePHRD Grant

a. Analysis of Institutional Framework andClarification ofRoles, Functions and
  Responsibilities of MDAs, RCCS andDAsto supportDecentralization and
   EBcientDelivery ofInfrastructure Services
b. Beneficiary and StakeholderNeeds Assessment for Community-basedNatural
   ResourceManagement
c. Assessment o fRuralWater Infrastructure Needs
d. Ghana Social Assessment Study:ChangingDynamics andCapacity for Sustained
   Community Development andPoverty Reduction
e. Planning andBudgeting Processes at the District Assemblies
f. RuralEnterprise, LearningCentersandMicro-finance inGhana
g. RuralPost Harvest Infrastructure Needs Assessment
h. RuralTransportNeeds Assessment
i.EnvironmentAssessmentReportandResettlementPolicyFramework

b. ProjectImplementationPlan
j, ProjectImplementationManual
k. Guidelinesfor the Operationalisation ofDistrict andRegional Planning
   Coordinating Units

c. BankStaffAssessments

1. Report of PanelReview of the PCN
m. QERReport
n. DecisionMeetingReport
0. Bank Aide Memoires (pre-appraisal, February 2 - 8,2004; appraisalmission,
   March29 -April 9,2004

d. Others
p. DetailedCost Tables
q. Beneficiary Assessment ofthe Village Infrastructure Project
r. ICRReportofVIP




                                  76

                                          Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
                                     GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment

                                                                                                                         Difference between
                                                                                                                         expectedandactual
                                                               Original Amount inUS$ Millions                              disbursements

ProiectID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.   Orie.     Frm. Rev'd
PO71157     2004  GH Land Administration                       0.00     20.51     0.00      0.00     0.00       21.44    -0.75        0.00
PO71399     2003  Partnershipswl TraditionalAuthorities        0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      4.80      0.32        0.00
PO73649     2003  2nd Health Sect. Prog. Support               0.00     57.30     0.00      0.00      0.00      86.80     5.93        0.00
PO67685     2002  Ghana:GEF-Northem Savanna     -              0.00      0.00     0.00      7.90      0.00       8.11     2.94        0.00
                  TF050723
PO50623     2002  GHROAD SECTORDEVELOPMENT                     0.00   220.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     216.77    53.48        0.00
                  PROGRAM
PO00968     2001  Ghana:AGRIC SERVICES                         0.00     67.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      55.58    70.27        0.00
PO71617     2001  AIDS ResponseProj.(GARFUND)                  0.00     25.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      16.23   -11.64        0.00
PO50624     2000  URBAN5                                       0.00      10.83    0.00      0.00      0.00       2.95     2.60        0.61
PO50616      2000 COMMUNITY WATER I1                           0.00     25.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      13.30    15.25       -0.15
PO69465      2000 Ghana: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES              0.00      5.13     0.00      0.00      0.00       4.81    17.81         0.00
                  PROJECT
PO40659      1999 Community-basedPov,Red.                      0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       3.19     2.92         0.92
PO00970      1999 TRADE GATEWAY & INV.                         0.00      50.50    0.00      0.00      0.00      24.38    20.24         0.00
PO00974      1999 Nat. Func. Lit. Program                      0.00      32.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      24.06     15.38        9.14
PO45188      1998 Ghana: FORESTBIODIVERSITY                    0.00      0.00     0.00       8.90     0.00       6.83     4.79         0.00
PO41150      1997 Ghana: VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                0.00      30.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       5.06     6.88         0.00
PO42516      1996 PUBLIC ENTERPRISEPR                          0.00      26.45    0.00       0.00     0.00       5.19     6.67         0.07
                                                      Total:   0.00    574.72     0.00      16.80     0.00     499.50   213.09       10.59




                                                                GHANA
                                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                                Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                              IFC                                          IFC
       FY Approval   Company                       Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.   Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic

        1993         AEF Afariwaa                  0.16        0.00         0.00     0.00        0.16       0.00     0.00        0.00
        1995         AEF AntelopeCo.               0.00        0.00         0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00     0.00        0.00
       2000          AEF ComputerSch               0.13        0.00         0.00     0.00        0.13       0.00     0.00        0.00
       2001          AEF GPPI                      1.59        0.00         0.00     0.00        1.59       0.00     0.00        0.00
        1998         AEF NCS                       0.00        0.00         0.53     0.00        0.00       0.00     0.53        0.00
        1997         AEF PTS                       0.00        0.00         0.3 1    0.00        0.00       0.00     0.3 1       0.00
        1999         AEF PharmaCare                0.15        0.00         0.00     0.00        0.15       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1994         AEF Shangri-la                0.93        0.00         0.00     0.00        0.93       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1996         AEF Tacks Farms               0.43        0.00         0.00     0.00        0.43       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1989f91193   Cont Acceptances              0.00        0.00         0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
        2001         DiamondCement                 5.00        1.oo         0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00



                                                                    77

2000        ELAC                       0.00        0.10      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.10      0.00  0.00
            GAGL                       1.94        0.00      0.00    0.00     1.94    0.00      0.00  0.00
1990191196
1991        GHANAL                     0.00        0.44      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.44      0.00  0.00
2001       MFISSLC                     0.00        0.49      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.49      0.00  0.00
                                                                     ~~~


                     Total portfolio:   10.33      2.03      0.84    0.00     5.33    1.03      0.84   0.00




                                                               ApprovalsPendingCommitment
            FY Approval   Company                          Loan      Equity    Quasi     Partic.
            2000          GAGL IV-Restr                  0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00

                                Total pendingcommitment:    0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00




                                                        78

                                              Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                                   GHANA: Community-BasedRuraldevelopment
                                                              Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan    Low-
                                                   Ghana     Africa  income         )evelopment diamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(mil/ions)                         20.1      688     2,495                    Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                      270       450      430
GNI(Atlasmethod, US$bi/lions)                                                                           7
                                                       5.4      306     1072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (?+I                                         2.1      2.4       19
Laborforce  m)                                         2.4       2.5      2.3       ;Ni                                         Gross
                                                                                    ier                                        primary
Mos1 recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                               .apita                                 nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovedy//neJ
Urbanpopulation (%of tofa/popuiationj                   37        33       30
Lffeexpectancyatbirth(years)                            55        46       59                           i
Infant mortality (perlooOlivebidhs)                     55       a5        81
Childmalnutrition (%ofchiWren under5j                   25                               Access to improvedwater source
Access to animprovedwater source (%ofpopulation)        73        56       78
llllteracy(%of population age BY                        26        37       37
Gross primaryenrollment mofschoobagepopuafion)          80        86       95             -Ghana
   Male                                                 84        92      a 3
   Female                                               76        60       67                 - . Lowhcomegroup


KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                             1982    1992      2001    2002
                                                                                    Economic ratios*
GDP (us% b//lions)                              4.0    6.4       5.3      6.O
Gross domestic InvestmentlGDP                   3.4    Q.8      24.0     22.7
Exportsof goods andserviceslGDP                 3 3    77.2     52.2      510                         Trade

Gross domastic savingslGDP                      3,7     13       5.8      6.5
Gross nationalsavlngsiGDP                       3.5     3.8      8.2      16.6

Currentaccount balancelGDP                     -4.8    -9.2      -7.3     -6.1
InterestpaymentsiGDP                            0.7     13        13       2.1
Total debtlGDP                                38.6    70.3     t27.5
Total debt servicelegoils                      15.5   282        t2.8
Presentvalueof debtlGDP                                         74.4
Presentvalueof debtlexports                                    BOA                                  Indebtedness
                                   1982-92 1992-02   2001     2002 2002-06
(avenge annuaigmnbh)
GDP                                     4.7     4 2     4.0       4.5     5.0              -Ghana

GDP percapita                           11      2.0     19        2.6     3.6               -Lowincomegmup
                                                                                  I


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY                                                                                                             I
                                             1962    1992      2001     2002      1 Growth  of investment and GDP (Oh)
(%of GDPJ                                                                                                                             I
Agriculture                                    573    44.8      35.9     34.7       20

Industry                                        6 2    77.4     252      24.9
   Manufacturing                                3.8     9.3       9 2      9.4       0

Services                                       36.4   37.8      38.9     40.3      -20

Privateconsumption                             89.6   86.6      78.7      79.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                    6.5     72.1     15.6     $4A
Imports of goods and services                   3.0   28.8      70.5      67.1

                                           1982-92 1992-02     2001     2002       Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowfh)
Agriculture                                     2.1     3.8       3.7      4.1        T
lndustly                                        7.1     3.7       4.0      6.3     40
   Manufacturing                                7.3     12        7,6      0.0     20
Services                                        7.3     4.6       4.3      4A       0
Privateconsumption                              4.7     4.2       14      a3      -40
                                                                                  -20
Generalgovernmentconsumption                    4.5     4.5      15.0    -0.7
Gross domestic investment                       7.1     19        -11      0.1
Imports of goods and services                   7.4     9.4                       1
                                                                  2.0      6.6            - w o r t s        - 0 - l m ) O r I ~      I




                                                                   79

                                                                                                                 Ghana

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002       1 Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                           c
(%change)
Consumer prices                          22.3   m.0      33.0    15.9
ImplicitGDP deflator                     27.9    112     34.6    20.2

Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                           6.0   1B.5     20.7    22.3                97    98    99       00    01
Current budgetbalance                    -32     4.2      2.9      3.0
Overallsurplusldeficit                           -6.1     -5.4   -4.5                 -GDP     deflator   -CPI

                                                                          i-1.-I
TRADE
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                              988    2,380    2,681
  Cocoa                                         302       503    535
  Timber                                          114     2 n    265
  Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                            1.589    3,781   4,099
  Food                                            36
  Fueland energy                                 %2       257    275
  Capitalgoods                                  277

w o r t priceindex(S95=aO)                        85        78      81              96   97  98    99      00

Importpriceindex(S95=UO)                         m3         99     96                 mocpons         mlnpons
Terms of trade (S95=WO)                           83        79     85

BALANCE of P A Y M E N T S
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ miliions)                                                              Current account balance t o GDP (%)

w o r t s of goods andservices             711  I n 5  2,433    2,607        0
Importsof goods and services              813  1845    3,428    3,662
Resource balance                         -m3    -740     -995   -1,055      -5

Net income                                -89   -a6       -l78   -135
Net current transfers                       -1   255      787     750      -m

Current account balance                  -192   -592     -386    -490
                                                                           -15
Financingitems (net)                       191   487      465     559
Changesin net reserves                       1    t?4     -79      -69     1-201
Memo:
Reserves includinggold(US$ millions)                       431    679
Conversion rate (DEC,locaUUS$)           214   437.1   7.l70.8 7,932.7

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982   1992    2001     2002
 (US$ millions)                                                              :omposition of 2001debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      1,484 4,508    6,759
  IBRD                                     131     87        6
  IDA                                      e5   1631    3,l72

 Total debt service                        ni     3 9      313
  IBRD                                      B      21        4
  IDA                                        1     14       59

 Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                           30     2 8     305
  Officialcreditors                        58    309      269
  Private creditors                         14    45       '64
  Foreigndirect investment                  B      23       89
  Portfolio equity                          0       0        0

 M r l d Bank program
  Commitments                               0    375      433                4
  Disbursements                            24     TI0      9 3                                                E- Bilateral
                                                                             3 -- IBRD
                                                                                  IDA   D Other multil6terd
                                                                                          -                   F Private
                                                                                                               -
  Principalrepayments                       8      n        37               :-IMF                            G- Short-ter




wb248445



                                                             80

