FI bE    CO P Y                  RESTRICTED
Report No. P-642
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.-
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE PROPOSED LOANS
TO
CENTRAL ELETRICA DE FURNAS, S. A.
AND
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DE MINAS GERAIS, S. A.
IN BRAZIL
FOR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECTS
September 27, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEOPi'ENT
REPORT A1ND RECOi'LXNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECT.ORS ON THE PROPOSED LOANS TO
CENTRAL ELETRICA DE FURNAS, S A.
AND
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DE HINAS GERAIS, S.A.
IN BRAZIL FOR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECTS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on the proposed
loans in amounts in various currencies equivalent to US$22.3 million and
US$26.6 million, respectively, to Central Eletrica de Furnas, S.A. (FURNAS)
and to Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais, S.A. (CEIG).
PART I - HISTORIGAL
2.        FURNAS and CEIUG are previous Bank borrowers. The Bank made a
loan of $73 million to FURNAS in 1958 for construction of the FURNAS
hydroelectric power station (211-BR) and loans of $96 million in two
tranches in 1965 and 1966 for the Estreito hydroelectric project (403-
474 BR). C&IJG received a loan of $7.3 million in l953 for the Itutinga
hydroelectric project (76-ER) and a loan of $49 million in 1966 for the
Jaguara hydroelectric project (442-BR).
3.        A comprehensive survey of the electric power requirements and
investment priorities for the period 1965-1980 in the south-central region
of Brazil was recently carried out by CAAIMBRA, a consortium of three
consulting firms. This survey entitled, l"The South-Central Power Study,t'
covered the States of Guanabara, Hinas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo
as well as the northern part of Parana. It was financed by a UNDP grant,
with the Bank acting as executing agency. The Porto Colombia project of
FURNAS and the Volta Grande project of CEIaG were included in this survey
and ranked high in the recommended investment program for meeting the
growing demand for electric power. Estimated total capital expenditures
for power programs through 1980 (at a low load projection) totalled
US$4.11 billion. A similar survey for the southern region of Brazil,
financed partly by the UNDP and with the Bank as executing agency, is
currently in progress.
4.        Negotiations for the proposed loans began on September 4 and
were completed on September 10, 1968. FURiNAS was represented by Messrs.
John Cotrin, President; Sergio Almeida and Sergio Menezes.   CEMIG was
represented by its Acting President, Mr. Joao Camilo Penna and Messrs.
Walter Alvares and Paulo Mafra. Miessrs. Penna and Alvares also repre-
sented the State of NMinas Gerais. The Government was represented by
Mr. Jaime Alipio de Barros, Attorney General, Ministry of Finance.



- 2 -
5.        The proposed loans and the proposed highway construction loan
being presented to the Executive Directors simultaneously would bring
total Bank lending to Brazil from $558.1 million to $633.0 million, net
of cancellations. The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to
Brazil as of August 31, 1968:
Amount less
Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ million
Total (less cancellations)              558.1
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others:                   132.3
Total now outstanding                   h25.8
Amount sold                  10.5
of which has
been repaid:                6.6         3.9
Total now held by Bank                  h21.9
Total undisbursed                                      26h.6
Details of existing Bank loans and IFC investments and of likely Bank
projects in Brazil are given in the President's Report on the proposed
US$26.0 million loan to Brazil for the First Highway Construction Project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOANS
6.                   Porto Colombia (FURNAS)      Volta Grande (CENIG)
BORROWERS:           Central Eletrica de           Centrais Eletricas de
Furnas, S.A. - FURNAS        Minas Gerais, S.A. - CENIG
GUARANTOR:           Brazil                       Brazil
AMOUNT:              The equivalent, in various   The equivalent, in various
currencies, of US$22.3       currencies, of US$26.6
million.                     million.
PURPOSE:             To assist in financing a      To assist in financing a
360 MW hydroelectric power   tOO 1W hydroelectric power
plant and associated 345 kv plant and associated 3h5 kv
and 138 kv transmission      transmission facilities.
facilities.



- 3 -
Porto Colombia (FURNAS)     Volta Grande (CEiv4IG)
AiKRTIZATION:         In 25 years, including a     In 25 years, including a
6½ year period of grace,    61½ year period of grace,
through semi-annual in-     through semi-annual in-
stallments beginning May    stallments beginning
15, 1975 and ending         February 15, 1975 and ending
November 15, 1993.          August 15, 1993.
INTEREST RATE:        Standard rate.              Standard rate.
COiM[TIvIENT CHARGE:  3/4 of 1% per annum.        3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECTS
7.        Detailed descriptions of the projects are given in the attached
reports entitled, "Appraisal of the Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project
of Central Eletrica de Furnas, S.A., Brazil" (TO-682a) and "Appraisal of
the Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project of Centrais Eletricas de liinas
Gerais, S.A., Brazil" (TO-683a).
8.        The south-central region of Brazil, which represents two--thirds
of the country's total electric power market, is supplied mainly by a few
large power entities with fairly well defined responsibilities. During
the past four years, the coordination and cooperation between the entities
has gradually increased due to the strengthening of the power planning
program by Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. - ELETROBRAS, a federal
holding company created in 1961 for national power development and
planning. The planning and coordination has proceeded in full accordance
with the recommendations of the South-Central Power Study. In the State
of Sao Paulo which provides the major market, Centrais Eletricas de
Sao Paulo - CESP, the state-owned utility, is expanding its facilities in
order to eventually generate all power needed for the Statets future
increase in demand. The City of Rio de Janeiro, in the State of Guanabara,
is supplied by Light, S.A. - a subsidiary of the Brazilian Power Company.
The State of i4inas Gerais, an important market area, is mainly supplied
by CEiMIG, the state-owned power company.  FURNAS, as a federal entity, has
the responsibility of providing generation requirements not provided for
by the above-mentioned three main utilities, and most of its generated
power has been sold to Sao Paulo Light, S.A. - a distributing company in
Sao Paulo. The load growth in the south-central region during the next
decade has been estimated in the Southl-Central Power Study at an annual
rate of between 9% and 11%. The overall expansion program currently
underway in Brazil's power sector, including the proposed projects, would
probably absorb about 15% of total public investment expenditures and would
just suffice to meet the demand in 1974 when the proposed projects are
completed.



Porto Colomnbia
9.        FURNAS, established in 1957, is an autonomous federal entity in
which ELETROBRAS holds a participat-on of about 95 percent. All power
generated by FURNAS is sold on a bulk power basis to other utilities for
resale to ultimate consumers. In 1967 FURNAS energy sales amounted to about
one-third of total energy sales in the south-central region, or about 5.5
billion kwh. Its Board and management are experienced and competent and its
technical staff well trained. It has shown its ability to carry out and
operate Bank-financed projects.
10.       The project consists of the construction on the Rio Grande River
of the Porto Colombia hydroelectric station to be equipped with four 90-iNw
units. The unit cost for this 3604Mw installation (excluding interest
during construction) would be about US$175 per kw, which is considered to be
low cost hydro. The generated energy would be delivered to the interconnected
system over 345-kv and 138-kv transmission lines. This transmission system
has been planned along the lines recommended in the South-Central Power Study
and has been confirmed by a recent review in connection with the proposed
loans.
11.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$69.8 million
equivalent, excluding interest during cons.ruction.  The proposed loan
would cover the estimated cost of equipment to be purchased after inter-
national competitive bidding. The estimated cost of the total expansion
program of FURNAS for the 1969-1974 construction period is the equivalent
of about US$380 million. The projected financial requirements would be
obtained from the following sources:
Percent
1. Domestic Sources
(a)  Internal cash generation             27.4
(b)  ELETROBRAS                           40.2
2. Foreign Sources
(a)  Existing loans                       19.5
(b)  Proposed loan                         5.0
(c) Future foreign loans                   7.9
100.0
12.       The Government has undertaken to provide any additional funds
necessary to carry out the project (Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Volta Grande
13.       CENIG, an autonomous corporation established in 1952, is owned
principally by the State of Minas Gerais (64%) and ELETROBRAS (17%). It is
the most important electric utility in the state, serving indirectly or
directly most of the principal towns and industries. CEMIG sales in 1967



- 5 -
amounted to about 2.7 billion kw, or somewhat less than one-sixth of total
energy sales in the south-central region of Brazil. The present generating
capacity of 527 Xw would, at the completion of the proposed project in 1974,
have increased to 1,457 Mw. Like FURNSS, it has experienced management and
well trained staff, which have demonstrated their ability to carry out and
operate Bank-financed projects.
14.       The Volta Grande hydroelectric plant with a capacity of 400 MW will,
like Porto Colombia, be situated on the Rio Grande River, downstream from the
Bank-financed Jaguara hydroelectric station. The unit cost of this plant
(excluding interest during construction) would be US$153 per kw, which places
it in the category of very low cost hydro. The generated energy would be
delivered to Belo Horizonte and to the interconnected system over a new
345-kv transmission line. Like the Porto Colombia transmission system, this
system has been planned along the lines reconmended in the South-Central
Power Study and has been confirmed by a recent review in connection with the
proposed loans.
15.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$78.5 million equi-
valent, excluding interest during construction. The proposed loan would
cover the cost of equipment to be purchased after international competitive
bidding. The entire expansion program to be undertaken by CEHIG during the
construction period of Volta Grande, 1969-1974, is estimated to cost the
equivalent of about US$280 million. The projected financial requirements
would be obtained from the following sources:
Percent
1. Domestic Sources
(a)  Internal cash generation              43.7
(b)  New share capital                     18.3
(c)  ELETROBRAS                             9.7
(d)  BNDE and other                         6.2
2. Foreign Sources
(a)  Existing loans                        11.2
(b)  Proposed loan                          8.2
(c)  Future foreign loans                   2.7
100.0
16.       Satisfactory assurances have been received that ELETROBRAS will
provide a loan of NCr$55 million for the proposed project and the National
Development Bank (BNDE) a loan of NCr$30 million for expanding the trans-
mission and distribution system (Section 7.01(c) and (d) of the Loan Agree-
ment). The State of Minas Gerais has undertaken to provide any additional
funds required to carry out the project (Section 4 of the Project Agreement).
17.       The Government, FURNAS and CEMIG have agreed to establish and main-
tain tariffs adequate to provide the companies with a minimum annual return



- 6 -
of 10 percent on their revalued net fixed assets after covering all opera-
ting costs, including depreciation. This should result in satisfactory
levels of operating income. Each company has agreed not to incur debt in
excess of two-thirds of the value of its total fixed assets. The debt
service coverage would be adequate for both companies.
18.       In accordance with an agreement reached with the Government and
previous Bank borrowers in the power sector, including FURNAS and CENIG,
Brazilian manufacturers in participating in international bidding for the
supply of equipment and material would receive a preference of 15 percent
in lieu of the customs duties normally applicable.
19.       A maturity of 25 years, including a 6& year grace period, is
recommended for both loans on project grounds. This term would also be
consistent with Brazil's debt servicing capacity.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and FURNIAS, the draft
Loan Agreement between the Bank and CENIG, the draft Project Agreement
between the State of Minas Gerais and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agree-
ments between Brazil and the Bank, and the Reports of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
21.       The draft Loan Agreements follow generally the pattern of agreements
for power projects and of the prior Bank loans to FURNAS and CEMIG. As in
the case of previous power loans in Brazil, provisions in both Loan Agreements
entitle the Bank to suspend and in certain circumstances cancel or premature
the loan in the event of a change in the legislation of the Guarantor which
in the judgment of the Bank materially and adversely affects the operation of
the Boi'rower's business in accordance with sound financial and public utility
practices. (Section 6.02 of the FURNAS Loan Agreement and Section 6.02(d) of
the CEMIG Loan Agreement.)
22.       The draft Project Agreement sets forth certain obligations of the
State of Minas Gerais with respect to the Volta Grande project and CEMIG.
23.       The draft Guarantee Agreements contain the usual provisions, except
that in the case of the Volta Grande project the assurance that any additional
funds required for the project will be provided is contained in the Project
Agreement with the State of Minas Gerais (see paragraph 16 above).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
24.       A Bank economic mission visited Brazil earlier this year.  Its
report (WH-184a) is being distributed to the Executive Directors together
with this report. It concludes that the new Government is generally con-
tinuing to follow reasonable stabilization and development policies and that
Brazil remains creditworthy for substantial amounts of external lending.



- 7-
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I an satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECON1{1NDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolutions:
RESOLUJTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Central Eletrica de Furnas, S.A., in
an amount equivalent to US$22,3O,000 to be guaranteed
by Brazil.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Central Eletrica de Furnas,
S.A., to be guaranteed by Brazil, in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-two million three hundred thousand United States
dollars (US$22,300,000), to mature on and prior to November 15, 1993,
to bear interest at the rate of six and one half percent (6L9) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project) between the Bank and
Central Eletrica de Furnas, S.A., and the form of Guarantee Agreement
(Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project) between Brazil and the Bank, which
have been presented to this meeting.
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais, S.A.,
in an amount equivalent to US$26,600,000 to be guaranteed
by Brazil.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais, S.A., to be guaranteed by Brazil, in an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to twenty-six million six hundred thousand United
States dollars (US$26,60o,o0o), to mature on and prior to August 15, 1993,
to bear interest at the rate of six and one half percent (6Lg) per arnum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the ter,ms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project) between the Bank and
Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais, S.A., the form of Guarantee Agreement
(Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project) between Brazil and the Bank, and the
form of Project Agreement (Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project) between
the State of Minas Gerais and the Bank, which have been presented to this
meeting.
Washington, D.C.                               Robert S. McNamara
September 27, 1968                                 President



