Documemt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCL41 USiE ONLY
Report No. 12522
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2618-UNI)
NOVEMBER 19, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12522
Type: PCR
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and. may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQOUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984       January 1989
Currency Uniit =    Naira (N)            N
US$1          =     NO.76                NO.6.90
NI           =      US$1.32              US$0.14
ACRONYMS
ECG          Economic Consulting Group
EEC          European Economic Community
EFC          Economic and Finance Committee
FMI    =    Federal Ministry of Industry
IDCC   =    Industrial Development Coordination Committee
IDCs   =    Industrial Development Centers
IPPPT   =    Industrial Policy Promotion and Planning Team
NISER  =    Nigeria Institute for Social and Economic Research
PAD    =    Policy Analysis Department
PRS    =    Planning, Research and Statistics Department
TRB    =    Tariff Review Board
UCC    =    Utilities Charges Commission
UNIDO =    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNDP  =    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offioc of Dlr.otor4Gneral
Oportlono Evaluaton
Novetriber 19, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE, PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria -
Industrial Technical Assistance Project
MLoan 26186UN
Attached Is the Projact Completion Report on Nigeria - Industrial Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2618-UNI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Government did not prepare Part II.
The project was designed to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate a medium-term
program to restructure the industrial sector. The specific objectives were to strengthen the institutional
framework for industrial policy formulation and coordination, develop incentives policies and promotion
measures, and improve the efficiency of public sector investments in industry.
The project assisted in the reform of import tariffs and helped to establish the institution for
policy analysis and train its staff. However, an impasse between the Government and the main
consultants resulted in the premature termination of the contract. Most of the studies were not
completed, and the technical quality of the policy analysis carried out was considered weak by Bank
staff. Despite an extended disbursement period, just over one-half of the US$5 million loan amount
was cancelled at closure. While institutional objectives were partially achieved, overall the project is
rated as unsatisfactory and sustainability of its benefits as unlikely.
The PCR is generally satisfactory. It suggests that more intensive supervision and greater focus
on the long term objectives relative to short term urgencies would have been desirable, and points to
inadequate borrower ownership of this operation as an important factor of poor performance.
The audit of the operation will focus on the contractual arrangements for consultant services,
project supervision, and Bank follow-up and review of the project studies. In addition, the audit will
pay special attention to the ownership issue.
Attachment
Tha dooume ba a rtrted d6sation and ma be used by riplea ol in the perfomeanc of thdr of&tlal dute  Its I
contat may tot tberw   be disclosed wfihout World Bak authorizadon.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COWM'LETON REPORT
NIGERIA - INDUSTRIAL TECHNaCAL ASSITANCE PROJECT
(Lan No. 2618-UNI)
Table ot Contents
Paye No.
PREFACE .........     i
EVALUAIION SUMMARY.                                                                   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.1
1.  Project Identity.                                                          1
2. Background.                                                                  1
3.   Project Objectives and Description.                                       1
4. Project Design.                                                              1
5.  Project Implementation.                                                    3
Selection of Consultants.                                            4
Cofinancing                          .5
The Tariff Rcview and Project Start-up.                              5
Relatbons between PAD and Consultants.                               6
Breakdown and New FM Initiatives.                                    8
Issues in Project Design and Implementation.                         9
6. Impact of the Project .10
7. Bank Performance                               .10
8.  Borrower Performance .11
9.  Project Documentation and Data .12
10. Lessons Leamed .12
PART nI: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... 13
PART Im: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..........................  14
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans  ...............................                 14
Table 2: Project Timetable .15
Table 3: Loan Disbursement .1S
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing .16
Table 5: Studies.. 16
Table 6: Status of Covenants.                                                 18
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may no' otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



. i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA - INDUSTRIAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2618-UNI)
PREFACE
Tbis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Technical Assistance Project in
Nigeria, for which Loan No. 2618-UNI in the amount of $5.0 million was approved on September 12,
1985. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1992, one year later than planned. Total disbursements
amounted to $2.4 million and $2.6 million was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Western Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III). The Borrower's analysis of key issues related to the project and their retrospective assessment
of project performance has not been received by the World Bank (Part II).
The PCR is based upon the President's Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and on internal Bank papers and records.



- iii -
PRO.ECT COMPLhTION REPORT
NIGERIA - INDUSTRIAL 3TECHNlCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2618-UNIP
EVALUATION SU1T1MARY
Background and Objectives
1.    The project's objectives u 4re to strengthen the borrower's capacity to analyze
questions of industrial policy and address a number of specific issues in industrial policy.
Specifically, the project wasi to address the structure of industrial incentives conditioning
private sector growth and seek impro% ement in the efficiency of public sector industrial
investments.
friplementation Ex2Lnence and Project Results
2.    The design of the project posed one significant issue, which was how to ensure that
industrial policy was adequately grounded in the macro-economic setting and multi-sectoral
priorities. The original proposal was that the policy-level review body and the policy analysis
unit should be in the central organs of govenmment, not in the Ministry of Industries. The
final design limited the project entities to the Ministry of Industries, and the policy-level
review intended did not happen in the multi-sectoral context originally sought.
3.    The Policy Analysis Departnent (PAD) of the Ministry of Industries, whose creation
came about through the project, developed into a major department, which carried out a
substantial programme of work and assembled the data and analytical tools for a much
strengthened policy-making role by the ministry. In this respect, the project achieved one of
its objectives. However, in early 1993 it was learnt that the Ministry has abolished PAD and
transferred its duties to the Planning, Research and Statistics Department (PRS). It is
understood the few of the PAD staff have transferred to PRS. This decision appears,
therefore, to have ended the main institutional achievement.
4.    Bank technical staff have expressed some concern about the methodology of some of
the policy analysis carried out. As the project was ending, it seemed desirable to establish an
external technical review panel to interact with PAD's staff and ensure that its analytical
approaches and policy advice were soundly based and reflected methodologies being followed
elsewhere in the world. This would still be a useful mechanism for the PRS.
5.    The main items to be financed under the project were consultant services to help in
the establishment of PAD. The contract with the main consultnts broke down in much
acrimony over roles and delays in payment. There was evident lack of trust of the consultants
and a lack of prompt action on the part of the Borrower to find solutions to contract
problems.
6.    Grn financing was provided by the UNDP/UNIDO and the European Commission
for training purposes.



- iv -
7.    In the later stages of the project, the government wanted to use the project funds to
engage individual consultants for work on a newly-added component, but this too did not
materialize as the time required for the Bank and the Borrower to agree on the terms of
reference for the studies left inadequate time to carry out the studies before the closing date.
8.    The intention was that Bank technical staff should review the various st-zdies carried
out under the project and commnent on proposals made for policy change. This did not
happen on any significant scale, pardy due to inadequate provision of Bank manpower for the
purpose and partly due to the very difficult relations which resulted from the contract
disputes.
9.    Both the Bank and the Borrower have complex procedures for procurement and the
engagement of consultants. The government is seeking to develop a cadre of staff familiar
with both sets of procedures to help prevent difficulties. The history of this project
demonstrates the importance of that initiative.
Lessons Learned
iO.   Technical assistance projects of this kind are very complex and require extra time and
attention for implementation. The ITAP project was carried out under difficult conditions.
Based on the implementation experience of the loan, a few lessons may be drawn. First, due
to the nature of the project, active and frequent supervision missionm should be carried out to
successfully implement the project. Second, the issue of project ownership by the Borrower
is an importa  one. The Borrower should take a lead in project implementation. Third, in
implementing projects, task managers should not forget the macro effects of projects by
letting short-term events and objectives take over the long-term goals. Finally, introduction
of timely PPF could be beneficial. This may significantly impact the project start-up and
initial preparatory work.



PROACI COlyIPLETION-R
Nlr             US-TRIAL TECUMCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECI
(Loan No. 2618-UNI)
PART L, -Project Review fr-om the Baiik's Pers=tive
I.     Proiect Identity
Name:         Industrial Technical Assistance Project
Loan Number: Loan 2618-UNT
RVP Unit:    Africa Region
Country:      Federal Republic of Nigeria
Sector:       Industry
2.     BackemLind
2.1    The initial discussion on the Industrial Technical Assistance Project (ITAP) took place
in Aprfl 1983, during the course of exchanges between the government and the Bank on the
Report on Industrial Incentives, prepared in 1982, and in the context of discussions about a
possible Structural Adjustrnent Programme. The goverrunent concluded th- at it needed an
improved capac4 for forrnulation of industrial policy and sought a Bank loan to finance a
technical assistance programme to create it. An outline project design was agreed in July
1983 and approved by govertunent in September 1983. In the event, the Strucan-A
Adjustment Programme was not adopted by the govermnent until September 1986. However,
the ITAP project was viewed as a priority by govermnent anyway, and went ahead
independently, the loan being approved by the Bank's Board on September 12, 1985.
3.    ftio  Ohlectives and Deqgdg iLo-n
3.1    The objectives of the project, as stated in the Loan Agreement, were "to strengthen
the Borrowees institutions responsible for industrial policy-making by assisting them in the
fomulation, carrying out and monitoring of policies and programmes aimed at improving
industrial efficiency and competitiveness; formulation of policy proposals qmrticularly on
industrial incentives) aimed at encouraging private sector growth and improvement of the
efficiency of public sector industrial investments". Ilere were few differences of view
between the goverranent and the Bank on the objectives, which were agreed at the beginning
of discussions on the project.
3.2    The project comprised the creation of a Policy Analysis Department of the Federal
Ministry of Industries to carry out an agreed four-year program of analytical work;
appointment of international consultants to provide experienced support in the work and
specialized lmowledge on particular subjects; execution of the program of work; a training
needs assessment; preparation of training manuals and execution of a program of training for
govermnent officials.
4.
4.1    lbough there has been little change in the objectives of the project a imdamental
dmge was made in the project design, which is imporcant in understanding the subsequent
history of the project. The origiiW proposal from the Federal MWstry of lodusWas was dw
dw project would support the activities of three bodies. 'Me first was the IndustrW Policy



Review Committee (IPRC), which was to be created by expanding the terms of reference of
the then existing Economic and Finance Committee (EFC), a ministerial sub-committee. No
new body was to be created, since the EFC had the breadth of focus and representation
necessary fo: consideration of th.e policy recommendations which would emerge from the
second body, the proposed Policy Analysis Department (PkD). The PAD was viewed as
being multi-sectoral in focus, since it would not be possible for industrial policy to be
formulated in isolation from the other sectors. The original govermnent proposal, in view of
its multi-sectoral focus, was that the PAD should be located in the Executive Office of the
Presidency. However, it was not certain that this recommendation would be accepted, so a
fall-back position was that the PAD could be created by upgrading the Industrial Development
Coordination Committee (IDCC), also a multiractoral body, to perform PAD's functions.
The third body, the Industrial Policy Planning and Promotion Team (IPPPY), was to be
attached to the Industrial Consultancy Unit of the Federal Ministry of Industries. This body
was viewed as being more strictly concerned with industrial planning and promotion. An
inter-ministerial committee reviewed this organizational approach and the project concept
generally, and accepted the proposal. This institutional proposal was also accepted by the
Bank without change.
4.2    However, these original proposals were not accepted by the Federz2 Executive
Council. Since the EFC would anyway have to review any major economic or financial
policy question, the council concluded that it -as not necessary to designate it as having a
specific function in relation to industry. Thus, a change was made and the IDCC was
designated as the policy review body. Its staff work was to be done by star of the newly
created Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Additionally, the PAD and the IPPPT were both
to be located in the ministry, which, with its broader remit (covering both industry and
commerce), would be in a better position to address both economy-wide and sectoral issues.
4.3   The Bank was unhappy at this outcome, for it felt that questions of incentives and
other dimensions of policy could only be addressed outside a sectoral ministry. The Bank
continued to argue that the policy-level review body should be in a central, non-sectoral
sitation. However, they also argued that if PAD and IPPPT were both to be part of the
ministry, they should be combined into a single department, to give them the necessary
authority. This was the origin of the eventual structure of the Policy Analysis Departnent.
The Bank also argued at that time that if IDCC was to be the policy-level body, it should be
at the level of Permanent Secretary. In the event, the IDCC became a ministerial-level body,
and a separate Tariff Review Board (IRP' as created somewhat later, also at the ministerial
level and chaired by the Minister of Indus.s, but operating centrally with staff work in the
Ministry of Budget and Planning. This Board became the body addressing tariff issues. It
could be argued, therefore, that the final arrangement was not dissimilar from that the Bank
had hoped for all along.
4.4   In the event, however, neither the IDCC nor the TRB played any role in the
implementation of the ITAP project, though the PAD did carry out staff work on tariffs and
protection for the Tariff Review Board. The project was administered by the Federal
Ministry of Industries, Commerce having been re-established as a separate ministry again.
Thus the inter-sectoral emphasis of the ITAP project was lost, and PAD became just another
department of the Federal Ministry of Industries. There was no inter-miniterial policy-level
review of the work done by PAD.



- 3 -
4.5    During the course of implementing the project, the Bank again raised the need for a
high-level body to review and monitor PAD's work, notably in a letter to the Minister of
Industries in October 1989. This PCR raises the matter again. Industrial policy cannot be
formulated except in a multi-sectoral context; some structure is required to provide that
dimension.
4.6   The preparatory discussions were thorough and timely, the trirms of reference for
PAD were detailed and the arrangements finally agreed were in ge.  1 appropriate. There
was a broad measure of agreement between the Bank and the borrov.x bout the objectives
and the design of the project.
S.    Proict Implementation
5.1   Ihe creation of the Policy Analysis Department (PAD) and the appointment of staff
was one of the first pre-occupations of governmnent on;e the loan had been approved. This
was accomplished quite rapidly. How( ver, the creation of PAD in the summer of 1987
coincided with the move of the Federal Ministry of Industries to Abuja. Nigeria's new capital
city. There was no space available in Abuja for the new department, and no housing for the
staff. Therefore the department was established in Ibadan in buildings formerly occupied by
the Nigeria Institute for Social and Economic Research (NISER). This was unfortunate,
partly because it created logistical difficulties in communications between lbadan, Abuja and
Lagos, where FMI retained a liaison office, partly for more substantive reasons. The latter
reasons were to do with the kind of work PAD was expected to do. NISER is a research
organization; PAD) was intended to become a policy analysis unit, with its work very closely
integrated with that of the other departments of the ministry and with inter-ministerial bodies,
such as the IDCC, making use of research carried out by such bodies as NISER, but not itself
carrying out such research. The Bank was concerned from that timne that PAD would become
a research organization by virtue of its physical separation from the other deparments in
Abuja and being directly linked to NISER. This was a legitimate concern, though practically
speaking there may have been no alternative. On the other hand, it is probably the case that
by virtue of being an established department before it moved to Abuja in 1992, the PAD was
able to create a working organization of some independence and strength.
5.2    By mid-1991, PAD had grown into a quite substantial department, with a staff of 23
professionals and 112 overall. At that time, it occupied several floors of a high-rise building
on the edge of Ibadan, had a budget of N3.5 million and seemed to have plenty of support
from within the ministry. The department had a busy work programme, not significantly
different from that originally included in the ITAP terms of reference. It provided training
for government officials in a variety of fields, from computing to policy level subjects. It
carried out technical analysis not only for the ministry but also for other government agencies
and groups concerned with industry, including the Tariff Review Board, the Utilities Chluges
Commission and the National Committee for Industrial Development. Studies carried out
included sub-sector studies, a study of industrial incentives, maintenance of an input-output
table of the Nigerian economy, an overview of the industrial parastatals, monitoring reports
on the impact of the tariffs, and a variety of others. It handled the industrial data bank,
which is part of the Nationa! Data Bank. It had been able to draw on a firly extsive
network of people to contribute to its seminars, training sessions, etc. PAD finally moved the
majority of its staff into a new building in Abuja, adjacent to the main Ministry building in
late 1991/early 1992.



- 4 -
5.3    Bank staff reviewing the work done by PAD and its consultants complimented it on
the quantity of informatioa assembled, the number and variety of activities supported by PAD
and the preparation of a good number of reports. The department successfully created the
capacity intended in the original project concept, something which is still lacking in most
other ministries. It would be fair to say, howvever, that there were a number of concerns
among Bank staff about the work done. The'e were conveyed to PAD on a number of
occasions. In a nutshell, it appeared that the predominating approach at PAD was at variance
with the thrust of national policy ard conclusions of some PAD work seemed to be based on
inappropriate premises as manifested in the various elements of the Structural Adjustment
Programme. The PAD approach appeared to give government a greater role in directing
industrial decision-making, and to be skeptical of the role assigned to markets. The Bank
made a number of attempts to arrange for technical exchanges between its specialists and PAD
staff on soiae subjects, but various factors alway, ;ntervened to prevent this.
5.4   The conclusion as the project ended was that PAD represented an important
strengthening of the FM. However, it was felt to be highly desirable for the Ministry to
ensure the work done by PAD received adequate technical scrutiny. One possibility would
have been for the Ministry to establish a technical review panel of specialists frcm within
gcvernment and outside it, which could meet periodically to review the work being done bv
PAD from a technical standpoint, and report to the Minister on the outcome. It was felt to be
most important that staff carrying out studies are exposed to outside thinking on their various
fields of specialization, both inside Nigeria and outside it, and that the work done is
rigorously reviewed to ensure that it is based on current methodologies and approaches. The
panel could include, for example, one or two leading economists, somie leading figures from
the private sector and perhaps some people with relevant international experience, such as the
Africa Econ3mic Research Consortium.
5.5    However, early in 1993, following the closing date of the loan, the Bank learnt that
the Federal Ministry of Industries had abolished the Policy Analysis Department anJ
transferred its responsibilities to the Planning, Research and Statistics Department (PRS). In
itself, this could well have been a sensible means of avoiding duplication of fimctions, since
the PRS was created, as in all other ministries, as part of the Civil Service Reforms of 1989,
two years after the creation of PAD. It is a matter for regret, however, that after the
expenditure of so much time and energy through this project in building up an institution of
policy analysis, the ministry acted so precipitately, without any exchanges of view with the
Bank on the strengths and weaknesses of PAD and the measures required to address them. It
is clear that the creation of PRS in 1989 posed issues regarding the role of PAD.
Nevertheless, the need for a capability for policy analysis remains, as does the need for that
work to be exposed to outside technical review and for policy recommendations to be
considered in a multi-sectoral context. It is also a matter for regret that the ministry was
unable to retain some continuity in the work of PAD through the retention of some of the
staff involved. The institution-building role of the project has thereby been vitiated.
Slction of Consultants
5.6    Central to the execution of the project, in fact a large part of the rational for the Bank
loan, was the provision of specialist services designed to strengthen the capacity of the
relevant government institutions for industrial policy work. This was to be accomplished by
the recruitment of a firm of international consultants specialized in this field. At the
government's reqjzest, the Bank assisted in draftng the terms of reference for the consultants



- 5 -
and helped to identify firms to be asked to submit proposals. The terms of reference were
very detailed, extending to 35 pages, with over 20 pages of supplementary information on the
skills required, work programme etc.
5.7   The process of preparing a short list of consultants was thorough. A searchi was
carried out in the DACON information centre and 20 potentially suitable tirms identified.
Out uf these, nine firms were short-listed. Following inter-departmental consultations, this
list was reduced to six firms. One of the criteria used was ie size of the firm; it was felt to
be preferable that the firms recommended be relatively small, so they would be able to give
greater individual attention to the project. The short list was reviewed at a meeting chaired
by the Assistant Director of the Projects Department and approved with one alteration. The
final list of firms invited to submit proposals included six international firms, and the Bank
suggested that they be encouraged tO associate with Nigerian consultants, to aid the process of
transfer of know-how.
5.8   Four of the six firms responded to the invitation for proposals, and an interministerial
committee evaluated the submissions. A company from the UK emerged as the highest-
ranked firm, together with local Nigerian counterpart. The evaluation was transmitted to the
Bank for review, which concurred with the selection. Contract negotiations were concluded,
with signature in June 1987, though an amendment became necessary following review of the
contract by the Bank.
Cofinandng
5.9   f:rom the beginning of discussions about the 1TAP project, the government felt that to
the extent possible, grant funds should be used to minimize the use of borrowed fumds for the
provision of technical services. The government formally sought such assistance from the
European Commission and UNDP/UNIDO in November 1983, nearly two years before the
Bank loan was approved in mid 1985. The discussions were protracted. The EEC eventually
approved a grant of ECU 500,000 and UNDP a grant of $400,000. The contract with a
Belgian training firm financed by the EEC was signed in late 1989; the contract with UNIDO
for various training services was signed in early 1990. The contribution of these two agencies
began, therefore, at a time when the consultants had already terminated their involvement.
UNIDO's training support was directed at sub-sector specialists and manual preparation; the
EEC support at an assessment of training needs and general training support.
5.10 The UNDP/UNIDO training support has been extensive and quite useful. Over 500
persons attended various taining seminars and workshops supported by UNIDO, some of
them of a highly sector-specific nature, others with a broader focus, and trainees were
exposed to mamfactring situations; specialists were made available; ten training manuals
were developed; a number of training visits were paid to other countries. The EEC-funded
training assessment was carried out.
The Tariff Review and Project Start-ug
5.11 The appointment of the first staff of PAD in mid-1987, a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank loan, occurred at a time when the government was seeking to revise the tariffs, in
time for them to be Implemented effective January 1988. It was expected that PAD and its
consultants would play an important role in designing the new tariff for m  goods.
The consulting firm which commenced negotiations of its contract in April 1987, came under



considerable pressure to hasten conclusion of the negotiations so that it could mobilize its
consultants in time to make a substantive contribution to the design of the new tariff. The
consultants did mobilize some staff even before the contract had actually been signed.
5.12  It is fair to say that the pressure of the work on the tariff drove out all other
considerations at the start-up of the project. Extraordinary efforts were put in by all
concerned to complete the review on time and in the process no doubt some short-cuts were
taken in what could otherwise have been a gradual process leading to mutually satisfactory
working relationships. In particular, some of the consultant advisers spent some time during
the tariff review working under the leadership of the Ministry of Budget and Planning, with
the result that FMI, a sectoral ministry, may have come to question the consultants loyalty to
FMI.
5.13  In retrospect, the early weeks of the contract helped to jeopardize the long-term
outcome of the contract, partly for reasons beyond the control of those involved. Apart from
the factor mentioned above, the consultants who were rushed out to Lagos for work on the
tariff started incurring bills immediately, before the mechanisms were in place to enable them
to be paid. In the absence of a Project Preparation Facility, which had not been arranged in
this case, the Bank cannot disburse funds until its loan is effective, which occurred on April
7, 1987. The disbursement procedures require authorized signatories, which were not
available until October 16, 1987 and opening of a special account, which did not take place
untU March 1988. The project director of the consultants in the field spent an inordinate
amount of energy running around in order to get the disbursement and other start-up
procedures satisfied. By September 1987, the consultants were desperate, and were indicating
their unwillingness to release work carried out by them. The first payment, of fees only, was
not made to consultants until November 10, 1987, by which time they had been in the field
for five months. The process of getting payments to consultants was complicated by the fact
that the contract signed in June had to be amended to correct a typographical error and amend
a contract provision that the Bank could not accept. This amendment was not signed until
December 1987.
5.14   There are general lessons to be learnt from this experience. First, ensure that all the
conditions are in place for contract execution before fielding consultants. Second, do not
allow long-term institution-building objectives of technical assistance projects to be
subordinated to short-term pressures of on-going work.
R*tions between PAI) and the Consultants
5.15   Preceding passages have described the selection of the main consultants and various
difficulties which arose in the early months of the project's implementation. With the rush of
events in the first few months, it was December 1987 before the consultants and PAD had a
thorough discussion of the problems. By then, the issue of reimbursement of expenses was
the most pressing issue. 'he contract stated that "the agreed amount for reimbursable
expenses is a fixed firm sum' and that the government should reimburse the consultas on
presention of the consultant's invoice "which shall be deemed sufficient evidence of
expendiure". The consultans say they entered into the contract on the basis of these fixed
price assumptions and payment arrangements. The government argued that they were unable,
under the prevailing finmcial regulations, to disburse in this manner, but only afte scrutiny
of the supporting expenditure details, including original receipts or other evidence of
payment  ,However, a later contract entered into by FM  with an individual consultant



engaged for this project had a similar provision for a fixed sum for reimbursable expenses,
with no requirement for presentation of accounts). Another contractual issue, raised by the
Borrower in late 1989, concerned the applicable Dollar/Sterling exchange rate. The contract
price was written in US Dollars, with the amount converted into Sterling at a specified rate.
However, by the time the payments were actually made the Dollar equivalent of the Sterling
payments amounted to a larger sum than the original Dollar price. The fact is that the
financial and payment clauses of the contract were poorly drafted and should not have been
accepted by either party.
5.16   The payment issues were never resolved, despite negotiations on the point, notably in
Decem.ber 1987, March 1988 and at a meeting attended by Bank staff in June 1988.
Following the June 1988 meeting, the consultants did submit detailed statements of
expenditure, supported by copies of receipts etc., but this did not resolve the issue. In late
1989 the Bank responded to a letter from the government on the payment issue, giving its
own interpretation of the contract payment terms, but this did not break the deadlock either.
It is understood that at the time the consultants eventually terminated their contract in January
1990, they had not received reimbursement of any of the Sterling expenses incurred since
mid-1987. The consultants later claimed that at the time of termination, it was due from the
government  85,269 in fees and k107,145 in expenses. The government intended to settle
the matter through arbitration.
5.17  In March 1988, the government informed the consultants that two members of their
team that they fielded in mid-1987, including their project manager, were not acceptable, and
should be replaced. The reasons given for this action were varied and related to both
substantive questions of technical ability and questions of relationships between the advisers
and the PAD staif. The director of PAD also considered the consultants field director was
spending too much time on administration. The contract Terms of Reference provided for the
consultants to have overall responsibility, from a technical standpoint, for analysis and
interpretation of data and identification of policy options and policy measures. The
consultants interpreted this to mean that their field director should screen work done before
submission to the Director of PAD. The Director evidently viewed the advisers as being on
secondment to PAD, and therefore under his direction. This fundamental question of
relationships was never convincingly settled. The sequel to the decisions on the two advisers
was the nomination and acceptance by the government of replacements, who arrived in
Nigeria in the late summer of 1988. The consultants also appointed a director in London to
supervise the advisers' work, with visits to Nigeria at two month intervals. In addition, the
Bank staff in the resident Mission arranged to visit PAD regularly to keep in touch with
progress made.
5.18   The consultants were obliged under their contract to consult PAD before selecting
individual consultants for any purpose. PAD rejected many selections, often after
considerable delays. The consultants were dismayed by some of these rejections, and this led
to additional recriminations.
5.19   Underlying all these disputes over roles, quality of advisers, procedures, payments
and contract terms lay a lack of trThe degree of trust, collegiality and give-and-take
which is necessary for the success of advisory contracts of this kind was never present. Also
apparent was resentment on the part of the Director of PAD at the extent of outside influence
represented by the consultas. None of the problems that arose were insurmountable - they
have arisen many times before in other siutions. Had the will to find solutions been present,



- 8 -
they could have been overcome. Other contracts between the government and consultants
providing for fixed price payments had been honored. In this case, the ministry lacked the
will to find mutually satisfactory solutions.
5.20  There was a time in late 1988 and early 1989 when it seemed that relations between
PAD and the consultants had stabilized and the work was going ahead with some success. A
Bank supervision mission in July 1989 came away optimistic that the problems between PAD
and its consultants had been overcome. But this proved not to be the case. On two
occasions, Bank staff found the degree of mistrust between PAD and its consultants so
destructive of the purposes of the project as to seriously consider suspending disbursements on
the loan. It did not do so, though, as indicated below it did propose to end the project after
the consultants withdrew.
Breakdown and New FM! Initlatives
5.21  In October 1989, the consultants gave notice of breach of contract, which they asked
be remedied within 30 days. This did not happen; either the ministry did not take the notice
seriously or it was content to see the contract terminated. In January 1990, the consultants
notified the government of its action in terminating the contract. One individual adviser
decided to stay on and work with PAD. In March 1990, the government addressed the
President of the World Bank on the issues which had arisen. In response, the Bank suggested
that since it had not proved possible to put the project back on a constructive track, it would
be preferable to end it. The government did not respond to that suggestion at that time,
though in a meeting in March 1990 they said that new proposals would be made.
5.22  These were sent to the Bank six months later, in October 1990, and contained
proposals for engaging a number of individual short-term consultants for specific studies to be
carried out under the leadership of Nigerian specialists. This proposal was agreed by the
Bank in principle. However, over the next nine months, the recruitment of the consultants did
not take place - given the time it took to agree to the terms of reference for the studies and
the basis for the remuneration of consultarts. Bank staff attended a meeting, chaired by the
Minister of Industry in March 1991, when the future prospects of the project were discussed.
The Minister expressed himself keen to see the ITAP funds put to good use. As a result
another supervision mission was arranged for May 1991. This mission also reported good
progress in the programme of work and in the growth of PAD as an institution, but again
expressed reservations about the quality of some of the reports prepared. It recommended a
postponement of one year in the closing date of the loan, but also recommended that the Bank
seek an occasion for technical exchanges between Bank specialists and PAD staff to ensure the
analytical approaches employed by PAD on a number of topics were appropriate.
Simultaneously, the Bank became engaged in discussions about the possibility of the fTAP
project being used to strengthen the new Utilities Charges Commission (UCC) and the
inclusion of the UCC as a beneficiary. A new allocation of proceeds of the loan was
prepared in September 1991 reflecting these changes in the project; this became effective in
Jauary 1992. On this basis, the government made suggestions for recruitment of consultants
for various thnical studies and for support to the UCC.
5.23   Difficulty arose again over the term  of reference and fees to be paid to local Nigerin
consultants, which were proposed at international rates, and considered by the Bank to be
excessive, and over procedures to be followed in identifying consultants for residential
assignments and for a number of studies. As a result, when the project closed in June 1992,



most of these new consultancies had not begun and arrangements had to be made for the work
to be supported by other means.
Issues in Project Design and Implementation
5.24  In retrospect, there is little to fault in the project design. The project was responsive
to a distinct need, the institutional design was appropriate and the interventions supported
under the project were well conceived. The only nagging question is whether it might have
been better for the Policy Analysis Department to have been placed in one of the central
ministries, such as Budget and Planning, rather thau in FMI.
5.25  In implementation, the role perceived for a high level review body was dropped. The
IDCC did not perform the role expected of it. The possibility that this would be the case was
anticipated - the Bank raised the question whether the IDCC would be too much exposed to
day-to-day pressures to give the policy recommendations of the PAD adequate attention. But
the need remains and the recommendation is that the Ministry of Industries should fiDd some
medium for exposing PRS' industrial policy work to multi-sectoral review.
5.26  To that recommendation, we would add the suggestion that the ministry appoint a
technical review panel to meet periodically (perhaps twice a year) to ensure PRS' analytical
work receives technical scrutiny by specialists in industrial and sectoral economics.
5.27   The difficulties associated with the PAD consultants contract were a result of issues in
implementation, not design. There was nothing in the arrangements for this contrac which
militated against a successful outcome. Even though it was unfornate that the consultants
had to mobilize in such a hurry, and the financial clauses of the contract were poorly drafted,
these do not seem to have been decisive in the eventual outcome. A PPF would have been
very useful and could have helped to avoid some of the early payment problems, but that
would not have solved the later difficulties.
5.28  It is also worth noting that the particular institution implementing this project had
relatively little experience in using consultants. Other Nigerian institutions have shown
themselves filly capable of handling large consultant teams. This is something to bear in
mind for future projects.
5.29   Finally, the question of procurement procedures must be mentioned. Both the Bank
and the borrower have complex and demanding procurement procedures and requirements.
The procurement in this case was largely of consultant services, which also entailed
identification of suitable people, questions of rates for the job, differentials between
international and domestic rates of pay etc. Much energy was expended on both sides to
address these matters; in some cases the complex process seems to have prevented a happy
conclusion; in other cases disagreements in principle between the Bank and the borrower
intervened.
5.30   The government is seeking to develop a cadre of people in the Ministry of Finance to
assist ministries and agencies in addressing procurement and consultancy questions. The
history of this project shows the importance of this initiative.



- 10 -
6.    Impact of the Project
6.1    Over the period of the project, a substantial analytical capacity was created within
PAD, very much along the lines originally intended. The department was eventually moved
to Abuja in 1992, where it could integrate itself more thoroughly into the day-to-day work of
the ministry. The originally envisaged work programme of analysis and policy making role
for PAD was carried out to a certain extent. Indeed, additional tasks were also carried out,
such as the technical support for the work of the National Commission for Industrial
Developmeat. Considerable numbers of PAD and other government staff received training in
a variety o- subjects. A substantial data processing capacity was created in PAD, and
substantial aata bases built up to provide the basis for quantitative analysis of policy
questions.
6.2   The policy-level review of PAD's output did not occur in the way anticipated at the
time the project was designed. PAD certainly contributed to the work of the Tariff Review
Board; it was able to contribute usefully to the work of the National Commission. On the
other hand, major issues of industrial policy remained, for example sector policies for steel,
sugar, fertilizer and for the industrial enterprises remaining in public ownership, where
performance continues to be poor, and there remain significant deficiencies in the set of
industrial incentives. Obviously, the reasons for the continued difficulties on these subjects
extended well beyond the role and contribution of PAD. Nevertheless, the question remained
whether PAD had been able to successfully contribute good thinking on these subjects, or
whether the originally envisaged arrangements would have been more successful.
6.3    With the abolition of PAD in early 1993, it seems that the project's impact will prove
to have been transitory only. If, however, the experience of this project is used to create a
strong PRS Department, with an external technical review panel and a high-level multi-
sectoral review body to address the broader implications of policy recommendations, then
perhaps the impact of the project will prove to have been longer-lasting.
7.    Bank Performance
7.1    The Bank made a major contribution to the design and early implementation of the
project, and this was appreciated by the government of the day. When it came to
implementation, however, it allowed the pressures of the moment (the tariff review) to
subordinate the longer-term institution-building role of the consultants in strengthening FMI.
This lesson has wider application. The design of future technical assistance projects of this
type should seek to prevent the diversion of outside advisers from long-term institution-
building tO tasks related to the needs of the moment.
7.2    The Loan Agreement provides for the review by the Bank staff of reports produced by
PAD and of policy recommendations derived from them. Although the Bank made a number
of suggestions of a technical nature to PAD on the work being done by its staff, in retrospect
more should have been done to assist. Attempts were made to arrange for Bank specialists to
visit PAD for exchanges of view on areas of interest, but none of these materialized. Part of
the problem may have been that inadequate manpower allocations were made in the Bank for
this support - TA projects always seem to demand more manpower than it was possible to
allocate at the time. However, another part of the problem Is that the debilitating disputU
between the Director of PAD and the consultants led the Bank to be wary of allocating greater
resources. Had there been a more collegial atmosphere in the worldng relations between PAD



- 11 -
and the consultants much greater contributions by Bank technical staff would have been
possible.
7.3    The Bank's record on supervision is somewhat uneven. The periodicity of
supervision missions was not regular, though field office staff sought to bridge the gap
between missions by visits to PAD. Combined with the technical exchanges mentioned
above, more regular supervision might have been helpful. Certainly, the various contract
disputes were very demoralizing and the Bank considered suspending disbursements in order
to bring about a resolution.
7.4  TMe Bank was criticized by the Borrower, both implicitly and explicitly, of partiality
in the disputes which arose between PAD and the consultants. It is clear that this was not the
case - the issue was effective utilization of consultant services and the need to ensure
personnel and administrative problems did not get in the way of project implementation but its
attempts to seek a solution were misinterpreted. Bank staff were dismayed at the perpetuation
of what seemed to be entirely soluble problems, to the point perhaps where they became wary
of further involvement in the project.
8.    Borrower Performance
8.1   The borrower showed itself to be keen and active in designing the project and
obtaining the necessary decisions for setting up the institutions involved. After that, its
interest seemed, from the Bank's perspective, to decline. Perhaps this was a consequence of
the isolation of PAD in Ibadan, which presented significant communication difficulties at a
time when many ministry staff were commuting between Abuja and Lagos. On the other
hand, the ministry certainly allocated significant resources to PAD, which permitted the
growth of a substantial department.
8.2   The original objective of giving the output of PAD an inter-sectoral exposure at the
policy level was largely lost, and it is desirable that some means be found to re-introduce that
element in the work of PRS. Whether the role and functioning of DCC can still be modified
to inject this element is for consideration. Other alternatives might give a role to the National
Planning Commission.
8.3   It has to be recorded as unfortunate that the Borrower was unable to solve the
contraual problems which arose. None of the difficulties were insurmountable, given the
will to find a solution. The important point to be noted is that for effective work by advisers
in situations such as those faced by the PAD consultants, the administrative and personnel
arrangements have to work smoothly. If they do not, it is probably better to do without the
advisers. International consultants are expensive, and worth it if they are well used; they are
not worth it if they cannot work effectively.
8.4   'he Borrower, like the Bank, had constraints to observe in handling appointments of
advisers, but the difficulties in the case of this project seem to have been unusually
intractable. The initiative taken by the Ministry of Finance to create a cadre of specialists to
help ministries with procurement, with consultant selections and with contract negotiations, is
important and timely, and should help to avoid repetitions of the experience in this project.



-12 -
9.    Project DocuMMntion and Data
9.1    The Loan Agreement for Loan No. 2618 seems to have been appropriate and
presented no difficulties. The terms of reference for PAD consultants were highly detailed
and an essential piece of project documentation which proved useful.
9.2   The data needs for preparing the PCR were not large and the correspondence records
provided adequate information. The Borrower, however, did not respond for Part II of the
PCR.
10.   Lessons Led
10.   Technical assistance projects of this kind are very complex and require extra time and
attention for implementation. The ITAP projeet was carried out umder difficult conditons.
Based on the implementation experience of the loan, a few lessons may be drawn. First, due
to the nature of the project, active and frequent supervision missions should be caried out to
successfully implement the project. Second, the issue of project ownership by the Borrower
is an important one. The Borrower should take a lead in project implementation. Third, in
implementing projects, task managers should not forget the macro effects of projects by
letting short-term events and objectives take over the long-term goals. Finally, introduction
of timely PPF could be beneficial. This may significantly impact the project start-up and
initial preparatory work.



- 13 -
EOlECT COIhhTION REPORT
NIGERA - INDUMRIAL -TECUCAL -&W9[ANCZ PQECT
(Loan No. 2618-UN!)
PART IT: PROJECT REVIEW FROM T1E BORROWERS'S PERSPECTIVE
(This section was not provided by the Federal Government of Nigeria).



- 14 -
PRO.lECI COMFLETTON REPORT
NIGERLA - INDUSTRIAL TECNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECI
(Loan No. 2618-UNI)
PARTM; -STATISTICALMNORMATION
TALLE 1 RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan                        Purpose                   Approval              Stas
Trade Policy and      The project objective was to         1986
Export                support the Government's efforts                            delya P
Developmt             to reform trade and export                                  closed on
Loan (TPED)           policies. This quick disbursing                             December 31,
aLm 2758-UNI),       loan had a $2 million Technical                              1991.
USS 452 million       Assistance component to, among
otes, fund (a) a sub-sector study
of the Nigerian steel industry,
which provided quantified options
for the future of the state-owned
steel plants; (b) needs assessment
and feasibility report on the
computerization of the
management nformation system
of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance
Corporation; and (c) training of
staff of the Centml Bank of
Nigeria, the Export Promotion
Council, the Nigeria Deposit
lance Corporation.
Trade and             TIPL supported the consolidation     1988                   Project closed on
Investment            of the exchange rate and trade                             December 31,
Policy Loan           policy initiatives that were                                1990.
(IIPL)                pursued under TPED. The policy
(Ln 3011-UNI),        agenda covered five broad areas:
USS 500 million      (i) maintenance of a market-
debtrmined exchage rate system;
(ii) consolidation of the reform of
the protection regime and
institutios developments; (iii)
implementation of export
promotion moasure; (iv)
liberalizatio of the regulatory
framework for private investment;
and (v) rtionalstion of the
capital budgeting pUce  ad the
public invetment progrm.



- 1S-
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMEIABLF,
Stage                     Date Planned                Acual Date
Identification                                             June 1983
Preparation                                                October 1983
Pre-appraisal                                           _  October 1983
Appraisal                                                  October 1983
Loan Negotiations             March 1984                   March 1985
Board Approval                              .              September 12, 1985
Loan Signature                                             July 17, 1986
Loan Effectiveness            October 17, 1986             April 7, 1987
an Comletion                June 30, 1990                June 30, 1992
Loan Closing                  June 30, 1991                June 30, 1992
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank Fscal Year            1.    12&        L18     198   199  1991  L92
Appraisal estimate         0.5     2.0      3.75     4.5   5.0  5.0   5.0
Actual                       0       0      1.01    1.94  1.96  2.2  2.42
Actual as % of estimate      0       0        27      43    39   44    48
I-  .-                        ._...,..,..,_-                                        0



- 16 -
TABLE 4: Prolect Costs- and Ftnancin
Estlmate              Actual       If
LaL  EQgrg  z        L   Sal Foreign 12o01
A. PriRtCst:
Advisory services          980      980   1,960      n.a   1,907 1,907
Counterpart support       1,580        -   1,580     n.a.    n.a.
Training and study tours   200      750    950       n.a.    n.a.
Computer equipment
and services               88       77     165     n.a.      15   15
Studies                    713    1,808   2,521      n.a.    494  494
Total base cost         3,561    3,615   7,176
Price contingency         890      S06   I
Total project cost      4.451    4.121   8.572               , 2.u416
B. Financing Plan:
Bank                      2,077    2,923   5,000     na.  2,416 2,416
Government                1,976       -   1,976      n.a.    n.a.  na.
Cofinanciers (ECC, UNDPI
UNIDO)                    398    1.9      .56      na      n. a. 
TotalFinancing          4.45     4.121   M7        flj  2412.4l6 Z
1/ Actual costs are estimates.
Z/ Foreign costs only.
n.a. - not available
S. Studies
1.    Restructuring of the Irnmprt Protection Regime
Objective :  develop proposals for reform of the import protection regime in Nigeria.
Status    :  not completed.
2.    Design and Develonment of Export Promotion Incentives
Objective    d design an effective package of export promotion measures which would include a
scheme to enable exporters to purchase raw materials at internationally
competitive prices, export assistance measures to compeae for didvantages to
exporters brought about by high local costs or taxes which are difficuk to rebate,
and a scheme for the reteton of foreign exchange erings by exportm
Status    :  not completed
3. l:esin and Delop  of Incentives
Objective :  Desig an effective package of Investment ineives following a review of the
invesment iceives and an assessmen of their effectvens, an asessme  of
the potendal meas and usefolness of building additonal Incentives for ndstry



- 17 -
into the taxation system, and preparation of guidelines and criteria for evaluatng
the existing and proposed incentives.
Status       completed
4.    Foreign Investment Policies and Guidelines
Objective    Review existing regulations governing foreign investment/technical collaboration
to assess their impact on capital inflow, access to foreign markets, and build-up
of local technological capability in priority areas of industrial developmet.
Status       commenced; not completed
5.    Development of Regional Dispersal Policies
Objective    Devise an integrated appr'ach to encourage the efficient regional dislpg    of
industry.
Status       not completed
6.    Industry and Other Decontrol Studies
Objective    Recognize the policy and non-policy originating distortions and market
imperfections in order to dismantle undesirable regulations and controls, remove
industry-specific bottlenecks and constraints, overcome market impefections, and
promote desirable investment.
Status       not completed
7.    Public Sector Industrial Planning and Project Implementation
Objective    Preparation of specification of the methodology and criteria which should be
adopted for the selection, evaluation and design for public direct invest_*
Preparation of suitable institutional and procedural arrangements for
implementation and monitoring of projects.
Status       not completed
8.    Industrial Promotion Serices
Objective    Determine public support investment and assistance measures the Goveummant
should adopt to promote desirable private investment; determine suitable
insdtutional and procedural arrangements for implementing and moniting
industrial promotion efforts.
Status       not completed
9.    Qber Studies:
Input/Output Table of the Nigerian Economy, Industrial Paratata, Taiff
Monitoring Reports (yearly) and sub-sector reports on sugar, agro-alLW
industries, textiles, building material, engiering/spare parts and
chemical/petrochemicals
Statwu    :  completed



- 18 -
TABLE 6: STATUS OF COVE
Section         Covenant                                           Statw of coVp4nce
3.03(a)         Establish PAD                                      Done; however PAD wus
abolished effective
December31, 1992
3.03(b)         Appoint advisers                                   Done, for pat of the
project's life.
3.03(c)         Creatw a high-level body to teview PAD's           Done for tuiffs; not for
tariff, trade and industrial policy proposals.    industrial policies.
3.03(d)         Provide funds, facilities for PAD.                 Done
3.04(a)         Make and maintain PAD work progamme.               Done
3.04(b)         Hold mid-erm review of the progress of the         Done
project.
3.05            Provide Bank for review and comment its            Done, in put.
reports and studies and policy
recommendations.
4.01(a)         Keep accounts and records                          Done
4.01(b)         Audit accounts                                     Done in part, with some
deay; qualky poor. Lat
It pending.
TABLE 7:  EOF BANK RESQOURCE
A. St~aff 10f (weeks)
Planng Ad
Preparation                        n.a.                             40.9
Board                              n.a.                             12.9
Supervision                        u.s                              58.5
Completion Report                  n.a.                              2.3



- 19 -
B. Bank MissiQn
Date               7ype                  Number         Specialization
October 1983        Identification         2        Industrial economists (2)
November 1984       PreparationlAppraisal    1      Industrial economist
December 1984       Pre-negotiation         I       Industrial economist
March 1985          Post-negotiation        1       Industrial economist
June 1985           Post-negotiations       1       Industrial economist
July 1986           Supervision             I       Industrial economist
March 1987          Supervision            2        Industrial economist
Economist
November 1987       Supervision             I       Industrial ecnomist
February 1988       Supervision            3        Industrial economists (2)
Operations adviser
September 1988      Supervision             I       Operations adviser
December 1988       Supervision             1       Operaticns Adviser
July 1989           Supervision             2       Industrial economist
Operations adviser
June 1990           Supervision             1       Division Chief
Operations adviser
May 1991            Supervision             2       Industrial economist
Operations adviser



