Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3806NTJNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN
INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 19, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborizattion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984            June 1985
Currency Unit  =    Naira (N)                  N
US$1           =    N 0.76                     N  0.89
NI             =    US$1.31                    US$1.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EEC     -  European Economic-Community
EFC     -  Economic and Finance Committee
FEC     -  Federal Executive Council
FMGN    -  Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FMF     -  Federal Ministry of Finance
FMCI    -  Federal Ministry of Commerce and Industry
FMNP    -  Federal Ministry of National Planning
IPPPT   -  Industrial Policy Promotion and Planning Team
IDCs    -  Industrial Development Centers
IDCC    -  Industrial Development Coordinating Committee
NNPC    -  Nigerian National P'etroleum Corporation
PAD     -  Policy Analysis Department
PAU     -  Policy Analysis Unit
SDD     -  Steel Development Department
UNIDO   -  United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Amount:        US$5.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable rate.
Project        The project is designed to provide technical
Description:   assistance to the Government to formulate specific policy
measures for a medium-term program of industrial policy
reforms aimed at assisting in restructuring of the
industrial sector in Nigeria. More specifically, the
project will assist the Government in (a) strengthening tlhe
institutional framework for formulation and coordination of
industrial policy by providing experts, training of staff,
and computer hardware and software; (b) developing a set of
industrial incentives policies and industrial promotion
measures aimed at stimulating more efficient private sector
industrial growth, by financing the policy analysis studies
required for this purpose; and (c) improving the efficiency
of public sector industrial investments in major subsectors
by financing technical assistance and studies aimed at
(i) overcoming bottlenecks to realization of full benefits
from investments; and (ii) reevaluating viability of
selected investment projects.
Benefits       The principal benefits of the project would be the
and Risks:     formulation of a phased medium-term program of industrial
policy reforms to help accomplish the goals of restructuring
and growth in the industrial sector overall and the private
sector in particular, and the strengthening of the
institutional framework for industrial policy making,
ensuring better coordination and increased effectiveness in
implementation of the Government's strategy for development
of the industrial sector. There is some risk of delays in
recruitment of consulting and expert services under the
project. This risk was taken into account in designing the
project by identifying possible sources of consulting
services and initiating the selection process early.
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be discloed without World Bank authorization.



- $i -
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
…    (US$ thousands)-----
Advisory Services                                   980        980      1,960
Counterpart Support                               1,580         -       1,580
Training and Study Tours                            200        750        950
Computer Equipment and Services                      88         77        165
Studies                                             713      1,808      2,521
Total Base Costs:                           3,561      3,615      7,176
Price Contingencies                           890        506      1,396
Total Project Costs:                        4,451      4,121      8,572
Financing Plan:
Bank                                        2,077      2,923      5,000
Government                                  1,976        -        1,976
Cofinanciers (EEC and UNDP/UNIDO)             398      1,198      1,596
Total Financing                             4,451      4,121      8,572
Estimated Disbursementse 1/
Bank Fiscal Year           1986        1987       1988       1989       1990
…----------------US$ thousands---------------
Annual                      500       1,500       1,750        750       500
Cumulative                  500       2,000      3,750      4,500    5,000
Staff Appraisal Report:  No separate report
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
1/   Based on Bank-wide sectoral profile, but adjusted to reflect the fact
that the bulk of expenditures are for tasks at an advanced stage of
preparation and procurement, and form part of a contract that has a
three-year timeframe.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$5 milliLon
for an Industry Technical Assistance Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.          The assessment of the Nigerian economic situation in this
report is based largely on the work of an economic updating mission of
November 1984 supplemented by further analysis undertaken by Bank staff on
the basis of the 1985 budget speech. The findings of a 1982 economic
mission were more fully reflected in a Country Economic Report (No.
4506-UNI) which was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 15,
1983. Annex 1 presents selected social and economic indicators for
Nigeria.
Background
3.        Nigeria, with a population of about 97 million in 1984, is the
most populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members, in 1980
Nigeria accounted for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60
percent of regional investment. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about
US$770 in 1983, which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While
Nigeria as a major oil exporter since the early seventies enjoyed a
substantially improved resource base from increased oil revenues, it still
remains at a very early stage of development in terms of socio-economic
indicators, in which it compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.        Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new
federal constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came
into power in 1979. This Government was reelected in September 1983.
However, a military government, led by Major-General Muhammadu Buhari, took
power in December of the same year.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's
Report for the Second Urban Development Project for Imo State
(P-4122-UNI), which was approved by the Executive Directors on July
23, 1985.



-2-
Macro-economic Developments
5.        Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices :Ln 1973/74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource position. Between then and the late seventies,
Nigeria's development strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of
growth and diversifying the economy through the resources generated by the
oil sector. The principal objective of- the policies pursued by the
Nigerian decision-makers was to translate the large oil revenues accrued --
about US$100 billion in current prices during the 1973-81 period -- into
investments in economic, social, and physical infrastructure. While there
have been "non-economic" investments and waste, significant development
gains were made in both economic and social infrastructure. Transport
infrastructure, particularly roads and ports, expanded considerably. Power
generating capacity tripled, and refining capacity has more than quadrupled
since 1973. Manufacturing grew at an average annual rate of ten percent
during the 1973-82 period, although there was a highly distorted investment
structure due to large variations in the rates of effective protection
provided to various industrial sub-sectors. There also has been a rapid
spread of education at all levels; in particular, the primary enrollment
ratio which was about 35 percent in the early seventies has more than
doubled.
6.        Developments were not as positive iLn some other areas.  Overall
output in agriculture remained virtually stagnant during the 1970-82
period, with the production of staple foodcrops stagnating or at best
increasing at about the same rate as the population growth rate, but the
production of export crops declining substantially. Within a decade,
Nigeria became a major food importer (US$2.7 billion of imports in 1982) as
domestic terms of trade moved against agriculture. Inflation, coupled with
an appreciating domestic currency, push,ed up domestic costs of production,
thus putting the commodity-producing sectors at a disadvantage vis-a-vis
imports and non-traded goods. This encouraged diversion of resources from
commodity production to services (including trade and construction). Both
agriculture and industry became "high-cost" activities. Trade and exchange
rate policies, which were formulated in response to frequent swings in oil
export earnings, were largely used to dampen inflationary pressures or
ration imports rather than to provide appropriate incentives to domestic
production. This was partly due to the fact that, as a result of the
fluctuations in the world oil markets and their impact on the balance of
payments and government revenues, Nigerian policy-makers were preoccupied
with short-term crisis management. This diverted attention from the
formulation of longer-term policies to reduce the country's dependence on
oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sectors.
7.        The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when
the world oil markets presented a favorable outlook. Nigeria's oil exports
for the year amounted to US$25 billion and foreign exchange reserves stood
at US$10 billion.  The Plan, accordingly, reflected an ambitious investment
program. It envisaged a total capital investment of N80 billion (about
US$145 billion at the 1980 rate of exchange) over the period 1981-85, half



- 3 -
of which was to be invested directly by the Federal Government and a
quarter directly by the states -- with the remaining quarter to be invested
by the private sector. Emphasis was placed on the development of
agriculture (through statewide agricultural support programs and massive
irrigation schemes) and on heavy industry based on cheap energy (steel,
petrochemicals, etc.), both supported by substantial investments in
infrastructure. Nigeria's development plans, however, were overtaken by
the sharp decline in oil export revenues since 1981. Its economic problems
during 1981-83 were exacerbated by the inability of Nigerian
decision-makers to cut back the public investment program sufficiently,
partly because of a continuing belief that oil markets would soon recover.
8.        Nigeria's oil production fell by one-third from its 1980 leveL of
2.06 mbd to 1.44 mbd in 1981, and subsequently declined further to 1.23 mbd
in 1983. Coupled with a decline in the oil price from a peak of US$39 per
barrel in 1981 to US$29.9 per barrel in 1983, oil export revenues declined
from US$23.4 billion in 1980 to US$17.4 billion in 1981 and to only US$10.1
billion in 1983. Imports peaked at US$24.2 billion in 1981, resulting in a
current account deficit of US$6.5 billion, which was financed largely
through the drawing down of foreign exchange reserves and external
borrowing.
9.        Confronted by a worsening balance of payments situation, the
Government reacted in April 1982 by introducing a number of austerity
measures aimed at stabilizing the domestic and external financial
situation. However, these measures failed to achieve their stabilization
objective; imports of goods for the year 1982 declined only marginally to
US$17 billion (from the 1981 level of US$19.1 billion), resulting in a
wider current account deficLt of US$7.7 billion. Reserves declined further
to only US$1.4 billion by the end of 1982, while trade payment arrears of
US$4 billion were accumulated.
10.       By 1983, however, previous measures in the form of quantitative
restrictions, together with a growing reluctance of the trading partners to
extend further trade credits to Nigeria, led to a reduced import level of
US$12.2 billion. This was largely financed by further accumulation of
trade payment arrears (US$3.8 billion). Discussions with major overseas
creditor banks resulted in the rescheduling of the arrears owed to these
institutions (for confirmation of letters of credit) of about US$2.1
billion accumulated prior to August 31, 1983, with repayments to be made
over a period of 31 months starting January 1984. In April 1984, the
Government completed negotiations to reschedule US$4-$5 billion of the
remaining arrears incurred through "open-account" inter-company import
financing. This agreement included only those arrears not covered by
export credit insurance ancL rescheduled the payments over a period of six
years including a grace period of two and half years at an interest rate of
1 percent over LIBOR. Outstanding arrears at this point are about US$2
billion insured by export credit agencies (ECAs). The terms under
negotiation for these remaiLning arrears are similar although formal
agreement to reschedule has been made conditional by the ECAs on Nigeria
reaching an agreement with the IMF. The Federal Military Government cf



Nigeria (FMGN) has so far been regular in making repayments due on earlier
medium- and long-term debt, as well as on the 1983 reschedulings.
11.       The deterioration in the external financial situation had a
severe impact on the fiscal position of the Federal and State Governments
as well as on growth. Federally collected revenues fell about one-third in
real terms between 1980 and 1983, because oil revenues account for such a
large percentage of total public sector revenues (more than two-thirds in
the early 1980s). Until 1984, the Federal Government did not reduce
expenditures in line with the reduced revenues, thus large budget deficits
emerged over the period 1981-83, with deficit/GDP ratios hovering around 10
percent. In order to finance these deficits, the Government borrowed from
the Central Bank. This, coupled with the physical shortages of many
imported commodities, led to an acceleration in the inflation rate, which
rose to about 23 percent in 1983.  As a result of a decline in imports of
about 30 percent in real terms, output contracted by 6.0 percent in 1983
following declines of 5 percent in 1981 and 2.3 percent in 1982; as a
consequence, much of the manufacturing sector, starved of imported raw
materials and spare parts, is now operating at very low capacity levels.
In addition to the decline in manufacturing output, the construction sector
suffered from an almost one-third decline in gross output in 1983.
12.       In order to get the balance of payments situation under control,
and to accommodate the projected increase in debt service, in early 1984,
the Government imposed very strict: limitations on imports through the use
of an import licencing/foreign exchange allocation scheme. As a result
there was a sharp curtailment of imports which are estimated to have
amounted to only US$10.6 billion in 1984. Since oil export revenues
increased by about $1.4 billion over the! 1983 level, there was also an
improvement in the external balance with the current account estimated to
have been in surplus by about US$200 million .in 1984. The improvement of
the external balance through measures to consltrain imports carried with it,
however, very high costs for the economy in the form of further decreases
in industrial production, construction and investment, accelerated
inflation (officially estimated at 37 percent in 1984) as well as increased
unemployment. The manufacturing sector as a whole is estimated to have
operated at only about one-third of capacity in 1984 with even lower levels
in certain major sub-sectors. However, due to the increased oil revenues
as well as relatively good performance in the agricultural sector -- in
part explained by a return of workers to farming following recent years'
increases in agricultural prices -- Nigeria was able to break three
consecutive years of fast decline in overall production, and limit the
decline in GDP to about 0.7 percent in 1984.
Adjustment Policy Issues
13.       At present, the Nigerian econotmy faces two critical issues:
first, the management of the short--run financial crisis and stabilization
of the economy; and second, the longer-term structural adjustment of the
economy by stimulating productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and
developing a wider resource base. With regard to the short term, although



the measures that the Government has taken since January 1984 to reschedule
trade arrears, control imports and restrain domestic expenditures (which
were reconfirmed in the 1985 budget released in January), may help to
arrest a further deterioration of the external and internal financial
situation, substantial improvements in the current account situation will
be necessary in view of the sharp increases in debt service payments
projected for the near future.
14.       While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcome
the current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the
economy. More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken
to restore financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural
change. The chief requirements comprise: (i) further incentives for
efficient export promotion and import substitution, including appropriate
exchange rate, tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to
strengthen the balance of payments through judicious management of foreign
borrowing and external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate
demand through prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv)
improvements in the composition and implementation of public investmenlt to
increase its efficiency; and (v) steps, such as raising interest rates and
improving tax collection, to increase private and public savings and
investment.
Prospects and Financing of Development
15.       Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to
be significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of
its foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon
sectors during the next twenty years. In addition to oil exports, this
could include exports of llquefied natural gas (LNG) -- although the market
prospects for LNG during the 1990s now appear more uncertain than before.
To maintain economic growth, major structural changes are needed in order
to adapt the economy to lower levels of oil export earnings.  In the short
run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports will continue to be determined by
the volatility of world oil markets rather than by the deliberate
extraction policies of the Government.
16.       The prospects for the Nigerian economy over the medium term are
closely related to the kind of economic policies FMGN pursues over the next
few years. One option open to government is to pursue a "high
growth/economic reform" strategy comprising policy measures which have been
discussed in the context of a possible Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with
the IMF and a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the Bank. Such a
strategy would also give Nigeria renewed access to international borrowing
from commercial banks, although the amounts that would be available are
difficult to quantify. On the estimation that about US$2-3 billion pier
year of international lending would be available from all different
sources, this would permit: a moderately high growth rate of up to 4 percent
per annum over the period 1985-1992. It would prevent a further
deterioration in the average standard of living and allow employment to
expand broadly at the same pace as population growth. In addition, it



would over time stimulate non-oil exports, which, in the longer run, will
need to replace oil as the engine of growth. In the "low" case, on the
other hand, assuming no agreement is reached on an EFF/SAL package and the
only "reform" is in maintaining enough macro-economic discipline to avoid
the reemergence of trade arrears as a major problem, the possibility of
foreign borrowing would be very limited and balance of payments constraints
would necessitate the continuation of more restrictive policies. The
result would be lower growth rates for 1:he rest of the decade leading to a
further deterioration of the average standard of living, still lower
capacity utilization rates in many sectors and increasingly severe
unemployment problems.
17.       At present the Government is pursuing an intermediate strategy.
In addition to the adjustments in the irnvestment program mentioned above
(para. 12), FMGN has recently introduced new schedules of customs and
excise duties that move in the direction of equalizing effective tariff
protection across industries. In the 1984 budget FMGN made reductions in
public expenditures in line with Bank recommendations and, to help
rationalize future investments, instituted a Project Review Committee which
reviewed projects funded under the capital budget. The Committee has
proposed that all projects be categorized as "core" or "non-core" with the
former to receive full funding and the latter being shelved pending
availability of funds or abandoned. The recommendations of the Review
Committee have to a significant extent been taken into account in the 1985
federal capital budget. A freeze on public sector salaries and wages has
been introduced; measures have also been taken to reduce expenditure
through cutbacks in public sector employment, in particular at the state
level. Together these measures are estimated to have resulted in a
reduction of the federal budget deficit from about 13 percent of GDP in
1981 to about 5 percent in 1984. The 1985 budget continues the policy of
stabilization and the sectoral allocation of public expenditures is once
again in line with the Bank's recommendations. FMGN has also enforced much
greater financial discipline on state governments which has resulted in
greater revenue raising efforts by the states together with improved focus
on development priorities. Tighter monetary policies including increases
of 1.5 to 2 percent in interest rates have also been introduced. With this
progress on fiscal reform, but little progress on incentive reform, growth
would be higher than in the low case, bul: would result at best in a
stagnation of per capita incomes.
18.       The three policy scenarios differ more from each other in their
impact on growth than in their impact on Nigeria's ability to service
external debt. This is because in the low and intermediate cases, lack of
confidence on the part of commercial lenders would mean severely limited
access to international borrowing. Of course, if the moderate fiscal
discipline assumed even in the low case is not maintained, there would be
pressure on imports and an eventual risk of a build-up of trade arrears
with a resultant further decline in access to external credits. At the
present time, though, this does not appear likely, given the Government's
firm commitment to austerity. Under all these scenarios there will be
severe liquidity problems over the next few years, with the debt service



ratio likely to increase from 39 to 45 percent between 1985 and 1986.
Under all the scenarios, the debt service ratio begins to decline after
1986. The decline is somewhat slower -- although still marked -- in the
high case, because with better growth policies, access to international
borrowing is higher. Should oil prices fall from present levels, Nigeria's
debt service position would be severely affected and debt service payments
absorbing a much higher share of exports earnings would result. The volume
and composition of Bank lending would be determined by the policies pursued
by FMGN -- ranging from an expanded lending program including a Structural
Adjustment Loan in the high case to a limited program focussing primarily
on social and physical infrastructure in the low case.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1985 amounted to
US$2,561.0 million (net of cancellations). The amount of loans and credits
disbursed as of March 31, 1985 was US$1,418.8 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,142.2 million. Agriculture accounts for about
49 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply
together for about 34 percent; and education, industry, urban, and the
post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 17 percent. There have been
only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made six loans to borrowers totalling US$24.5 million,
and six equity investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of these amounts,
US$7.4 million have been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold. Annex 2
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.
20.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run
into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant: state governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. The Bank, under the Special Action Program.,
reallocated proceeds of several loans and increased disbursement
percentages to speed up disbursements. Working within the resource
constraints (which are like:Ly to continue in the near future), the Federal
Government supplemented the funding for selected projects for 1984 and has
agreed to ensure that adequate funding will be provided for projects for
1985 on the basis of updated estimates of funding requirements. The state
governments are instilling a greater degree of discipline in their
budgeting process and cutting back on new capital expenditure in order to
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
President's Report for the Second Urban Development Project for
Imo State (P-4122-UNI) which was approved by the Executive
Directors on July 23, 1985.



- 8 -
fund existing obligations. As a result, thet prospects for counterpart
funding for Bank-assisted projects are expected to improve.
21.       Provided appropriate policy change.s are undertaken, the Bank's
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversification of
Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessLve dependence upon petroleum as a
source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same time, the Bank
would continue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest
income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in
Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank would continue to provide support
for agriculture and rural development with emphasis on institution-building
and transfer of technology. These objectives are in line with the Federal
Government's priorities and with the emphasis it is placing on the need to
use the proceeds of the country's oil revenues to increase the productive
capacity of the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its
population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank would similarly support
efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and intiegrated development of
Nigeria's industrial sector. This approach would entail a combination of
intensive sector work and policy dialogue wilth the Government, as well as
Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial sub-sectors.
22.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure.
There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant
contribution in energy and highway maintenance. Similarly, there is a
strong case of continued lending for education. In this context,
vocational, technical, and teacher training would be given special
emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and State
Governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social
sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid
urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor and resource
mobilization for urban areas. The Bank is also assisting the Government in
overcoming the country's health problems with a project aimed at both
federal and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a dialogue with the
Government on population issues, perhaps leading to lending in this area.
23.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million
in FY78 to nearly US$272 million in FY84, Nigeria's disbursement
performance has lagged behind that of other countries in the region.  The
undisbursed balance now stands at 45 percent of the US$2.6 billion in loans
and credits approved.  One of the reasons for this development is the rapid
expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that
a number of large loans, with relatively large, planned disbursements
during the early years, were extended during this period, mainly for
agricultural projects. In many cases, however, disbursements have been
slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and
management problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of
projects by federal and state governments, resulting from lower oil



- 9 -
revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The FMGN, with the assistance
of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring loan
disbursements with a view to identifying problems early and taking
corrective action. Also, the Bank has been taking a series of measures
aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new projects
(para. 20). These efforts are showing results.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT POLICIES
An Overview of the Industrial Sector and Policy Issues
24.       In the past two decades, the industrial sector has been one of
the more dynamic in Nigeria and it occupies a prominent position in the
country's development plans and goals. Since the 1973/74 oil-boom, the
sector's development gained substantial momentum. During the period
1973-1982 the average annual growth rate of the manufacturing sector was
about 10 percent compared to an overall GDP rate of 4.4 percent. As a
result the share of manufacl:uring in the overall GDP (in constant 1977
prices) increased from aboul: 4 percent in 1973 to about 8 percent in 1982.
However, a number of structural weaknesses emerged which have become more
apparent in the current economic crisis.  The increasing shortage of
foreign exchange since 1981 has led to drastically reduced imports of
industrial raw materials and spare parts, and to widespread plant closures,
extensive retrenchment of the industrial workforce, and a very substant:ial
overall drop in manufacturing capacity utilization to an estimated 25-35
percent in 1984 and even lower levels in certain major industries. The
stringent quantitative controls on imports introduced by government have
resulted in: (a) a contraction of domestic supply of manufactures below
the reduced level of domestic demand; (b) a sharp rise in unit prices of
manufactures reflecting increased unit production costs and scarcity
premia, accruing in part to the manufacturers but mainly to the trading
sector; (c) some substitution of imports by local production but at the
cost of inefficiencies in resource use; and (d) increased uncertainties and
administrative costs to firms in importing raw materials and spares. The
Government has sought to contain the impact by giving priority to industry
in allocating foreign exchange and by trying to encourage a restructuring
of industry to reduce its import dependence.
25.       In the 1970s accelerated inflation and the appreciation of the
Naira contributed to a significant decline in competitiveness of domestic
industry. In response, seLectively higher tariffs and quantitative imLport
controls were introduced. With the rapid deterioration in the balance of
payments situation since 1981, tariffs were increased and quantitative
controls extended to a wider range of imports. In 1984, the GovernmerLt
took additional measures aimed at addressing the crisis situation (para.
12). The measures affecting the industrial sector include: (a) major
changes in the customs and excise tariffs structure by narrowing the range
of import duty rates and by substantial simplification and rationalization
of the customs tariff; (b) placing of all imported goods under import



- 10 -
license, with raw materials, spare parts and essential commodity imports
given priority in the allocation of foreign exchange; (c) substantial cuts
in the public sector investment program: it also announced but has yet to
introduce; (d) incentives for use of local raw materials by private sector
industry; and (e) export promotion measures to encourage manufacturing
exports. While certain of these measures represent a movement in the
direction of the policy framework required for restructuring the industrial
sector, major issues still remain unresolved, and further adjustments will
be needed in other areas, notably tariffs, trade and exchange rate policies
and the public investment program in industry. The proposed project is
designed to help government to formulate needed industrial policy reform
measures.
26.       Although the general business environment in Nigeria has always
been strongly private sector orientated, Government policies have greatly
influenced industrial development both clirectly and indirectly. Directly,
as in other oil economies, the Government has undertaken most of the
country's investment in large basic industries considered beyond the scope
and financing capacity of the private sector alone. Meanwhile, with
implementation of the 1972 and 1977 indigenization decrees, divestiture of
foreign equity holdings diverted substantial Nigerian private capital into
acquisition of existing assets. Public investment in manufacturing thus
grew more rapidly than private investment, and the public sector now
dominates manufacturing investment with about two-thirds of the total since
1975. Over the 1975-84 period, Federal capital investment in manufacturing
totalled about N7.6 billion. This has focussed principally on intermediate
and capital goods industries -- iron and steel, pulp and paper, petroleum
refineries, cement, vehicle assembly, and sugar refining -- with the aim of
catalyzing the development of a more diversified and integrated industrial
base.
27.       A 1983 Bank review of the public expenditure program in Nigeria
found that a number of public sector projects suffer from inadequate
project design, high initial project costs and cost-overruns following
implementation delays, and excess capacity once completed. In the past
there has also been an overcommitment of resources across a large number of
projects. Current resource constraints have further contributed to
implementation delays and cost escalations. As a result, by 1984, few of
the major public sector industrial projects had yet started operation, and
an estimated N12.4 billion (in 1984 prices) was still required to complete
ongoing and planned new projects mainly in steel and petrochemicals. The
expenditures required far exceeded the resources likely to be available
over the next five years. The Bank's review concluded that unless steps
were taken immediately to control the costs and to improve the quality and
efficiency of public investment in basic industries, the longer-term effect
would be an inefficient and high-cost basic industries structure which
would have serious adverse consequences for industrial development and
competitiveness. The Government recognizes the need to consolidate and
determine priorities in its public investment program and, in 1984,
appointed a Projects Review Committee that hellped shape the Government's
1985 capital budget, largely in line with the 1Bank's recommendations.



- 11 -
28.       Indirectly, privalte sector investment decisions and production
patterns have been affected by the industrial incentives policies pursued,
most notably tariffs, trade and exchange rate policies. The present
industrial incentives structure, as it has evolved over the years, has
provided low or negative net effective protection to domestic
resource-based industries, e.g., agro-industries and mining and forest
products, while much higher incentives have been provided to consumer goods
and assembly industries. Thus while local resource-based industries have
been among the worst performers in recent years, import-intensive consumer
goods and assembly industries, contributing little to value-added, have
grown rapidly under high protection. The net effect has been that
manufactured exports based upon agro-processing, which were about 10
percent of exports in 1970, have all but disappeared and the import
dependency of the industrial sector has substantially increased. Equally
important, industrial productivity and competitiveness have been adverisely
affected by major bottlenecks in industrial infrastructure and skilled
manpower availability.
29.       Although Nigeria is essentially a market-orientated economy
endowed with a sizeable and dynamic pool of private entrepreneurs, the past
decade has seen major shifts in the role of the private sector: it still
accounts for a dominant shaLre of total industrial output and employment,
but its share of total manufacturing investment has declined to less than
one-third of total investment. Private sector investments have expanded
substantially in trade, construction and real estate, where returns have
been higher, quicker and less risky. The capital-intensity of industrial
investment has increased, and productivity has stagnated if not declined
slightly. In the recent past there has also been a substantial declinle in
foreign direct investment fErom US$382 million in 1977 to an estimated US$29
million in 1981 and indicaltions are that this trend has continued in recent
years. Although the prevailing crisis in the economy will probably irLhibit
any significant short-term expansion of private industrial investment, the
sound long-term development of many of the key manufacturing subsectors --
textiles, engineering goods, agro-industries, cement and construction
materials -- will need substantial increases in private -- domestic and
foreign -- investment. Reform of the incentives system will be a key
factor in stimulating the private sector. This would need to be
complemented by a clear-cut government policy regarding the respective
roles of the public and private sectors in manufacturing industries and
concerted efforts to strengthen financial intermediation, industrial
infrastructure facilities, and industrial promotion services to supporet
private sector industrial development. The potential for industrial growth
in Nigeria is substantial, based on a large domestic market, high per
capita income by Sub-Saharan African standards, substantial agricultural
and mineral resources and a dynamic pool of private entrepreneurs.
The Government's Industrial Development Objectives
30.       In recent planning and policy documents, the Government has
assigned a high priority t:o industrial development in the growth and
structural transformation of Nigeria's economy to contribute to efficient



- 12 -
import substitution, diversification of the ,economy away from oil,
exploitation of key natural resources a,nd a deepening of the industrial
base. To achieve these objectives, priority will be given to local
resource-based industries and to intermediate goods industries, such as
agro-industries, textiles, building materials, engineering goods,
chemicals, and household durables. Labor-int:ensive industries will also be
encouraged and increased support provided to export-oriented as well as
small-scale industries. Emphasis is now being given to encouraging
industrial restructuring, to reduce the import dependence of existing
industries through development of local raw materials, where these can be
effectively tapped. The private sector is expected to be the prime agent
for growth with the role of the Government focussed on infrastructure
investment, establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory climate,
and investment in basic heavy industries such as steel, fertilizer, and
petro-chemicals clearly beyond the scope of the private sector alone.
31.       Realization of the above objectives requires a major effort on
the part of the Government, particularly in identifying and implementing
the necessary policy changes and establishing an appropriate institutional
framework. The Government has asked the Bank to assist in this regard by
financing the proposed project. In mid-1984 the Government appointed seven
Study Groups to propose measures to revLtalize major areas of the economy;
one was for industrial policy; another was for commercialization of public
enterprises and a third was for financial management. The Groups' reports
were submitted to FMGN in October/November 1984 and are currently under
consideration. The White Paper on Industrial Policy is to be published
shortly. The Study Groups, as we:Ll as the concept of a Projects Review
Committee (para. 27) are indicative of the Government's resolve to attempt
a restructuring of the industrial sector in Nigeria; this project would
help the Government in this critical endeavor.
Industrial Policy-making and Institutional Framework
32.       The highest level of policy-making body of the Government is the
Supreme Military Council which determines national policy on major issues.
The next highest level is the Council of State which lays down policy
guidelines on financial and economic matters and approves and administers
the National Development Plans. The Federal Executive Council (FEC),
comprising all Federal Government Ministers, is responsible for the day-to-
day affairs of the Government including policy decisions. The next level
of policy-making is the Federal Ministries. The Government's Economic and
Finance Committee (EFC) has the responsibility for reviewing the
recommendations emanating from the line minist:ries concerning all economic
and financial matters. The EFC consists of Permanent Secretaries from the
line economic ministries as well as the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank
(CBN) and the Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC), empowered to take binding decisions on behalf of their
ministries/agencies. While the EFC plays an important role, there is a
need to strengthen coordination on policy issues involving several
agencies/ministries. In Nigeria, as in other countries, a number of



- 13 -
different agencies have responsibility for different aspects of
industrialization and trade policies. Coordination among them is
relatively weak, the policy-making system is relatively decentralized, and
there exists both a fragmentation of responsibilities and also significant
overlaps in jurisdiction. TIe Federal Ministry of Commerce and Industry
(FMCI) is the primary agency responsible for industrial policy-making. As
regards the incentives system, the FMCI, FMF, and CBN are variously
involved in determining and administering tariffs, trade, exchange and
fiscal incentives policies. Tariff policy changes have generally been
prepared as part of the annual budget exercise by an inter-ministerial
Tariff Committee, then reviewed by the EFC before presentation to the FEC.
Meanwhile, fiscal incentives for industry have been administered by the
FMCI and FMF.
33.       In order to strengthen policy coordination in these areas, the
FMGN has recently upgraded the interministerial Industrial Development
Coordinating Committee (IDCC) into a high-level policy review body, chaired
by the Permanent Secretary, FMCI, and with permanent secretary level
representation of the line economic ministries and other key agencies
involved in industrial development policy. The IDCC will be responsible
for reviewing industrial and trade policy issues, and for ensuring overall
consistency and coordination of policy-making and implementation. The :[DCC
is supported by a Secretariat in the FMCI.
34.       Regulations governing private investment, such as those relatLng
to foreign equity investment, expatriate quotas, technology transfer,
repatriation of dividends and royalty payments, are variously set and
administered by a number of ministries. The Government has recognized the
need to streamline and rationalize the regulatory framework so as to reduce
"red tape" and foster domestic and foreign private investment.  To this
end, the inter-ministerial Industrial Development Coordinating Committee
(IDCC) was originally established in 1981 inter alia to help expedite the
processing of applications for the major permits and licenses which
industrial enterprises need to obtain from the Government, although it did
not effectively fulfill these functions. With the upgrading of the IDCC
into a policy review body (para. 33), a division has been established
within the FMCI to act administratively as a "one stop" agency for
industrial approvals and th:Ls function is in the process of being
strengthened. The November 1984 reorganization of FMCI, following the
merger of the former federa:L ministries of commerce and industries, was a
first step in this direction by consolidating industrial incentives
administration and regulations into a single Incentives Administration
Department.
35.       As regards public investment, three principal agencies have been
responsible for planning, iimplementing and monitoring federally-sponsored
industrial projects: FMCI for pulp and paper, cement, agro-industries,
fertilizers, engineering goods and other industries; the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for petroleum refineries and petro-chemicals;
and the Steel Development Department (SDD) of the Federal Ministry of
Mines, Power and Steel for iron and steel. The 1983 Bank review of the



- 14 -
public investment program has recommended t'hat a mechanism be established
for preparation of a consolidated industry investment program coordinated
by the Federal Ministry of National Planning (FMNP) and based upon
three-year forward investment programs, to be prepared by FMCI, NNPC and
SDD for their respective subsectors. This could help to prioritize Federal
Government investments based upon their economic merits and strategic
importance, and thus ensure adequate timely funding for "core" projects.
This would complement efforts to improve coordination of the planning
process at the macro-level, to be assisted by the Bank's recently approved
Technical Assistance Project Loan.
36.       As regards industrial promotion for the private sector,
information and technical support services are currently provided on a
limited basis by FMCI through its Trade and Industrial Promotion Division
and Industrial Development Centers (IDCs) which assist small- and
medium-scale industries. However, in practice much less emphasis has been
placed upon infrastructure and support serviices to foster private sector
activities than on direct public investment, and these efforts have so far
been unsystematic and inadequate. Nigeria still needs to develop
well-established industrial promotion and information services in close
coordination with the private sector such as exist in other middle income
industrializing countries.
37.       The 1984 merger of the Federal Ministries of Industries and
Commerce should contribute to streamlining of industrial policy-making
particularly as regards tariffs and trade policies. However, the quality
and effectiveness of industrial policy--making is limited by: (a) weaknesses
in analytical work on which the policy recommendations are based and lack
of a centrally coordinated capability to assess the overall impact of
industrial policies to ensure that they are in line with Nigeria's
industrial development strategy; and (b) inadequacies in project
evaluation, implementation and monitoring capabilities of direct public
investments. These weaknesses stem from a lack of sufficient professional
staff skilled to undertake the analysis, lack of sufficient information on
which to base the analysis and lack of a clear-cut organizational mechanism
with responsibility to perform the coordination and monitoring functions at
both the working technical level and the higher policy-making levels. The
strengthening of the institutional framework for industrial policy-making,
as proposed under the project, is an important prerequisite for the design
and implementation of policy reforms needed for industrial restructuring.
Agenda for Industrial Policy Reforms
38.       Substantial policy and institutional reforms, extending into the
medium to longer term, would be needed to restructure the industrial sector
in line with the Government's industrial development objectives discussed
in para. 30. The industrial policy reform measures can be divided into
three main areas: (i) restructuring of the Lndustrial incentives and trade
protection systems; (ii) measures to improve the quality and efficiency of
public sector investments in industry; and (iLii) strengthening of
industrial promotion services. These issues have been analyzed in recent



- 15 -
sector studies by the Bank, carried out at the request of the Government,
which have made recommendations on the broad direction of the proposed
policy reforms and the findings and recommendations of these studies havie
been discussed with the Government. Specific and detailed policy measures,
for consideration by the Government, would be formulated through the
studies and work program proposed under the project. While the scope of
the overall work program is quite broad and would address several
inter-related policy areas, the studies are intended to be appropriately
phased over the project period, with priority given to those relating to
measures to be considered for adoption in the first two years.
Restructuring of the Industrial Incentives System
39.       The reform of the industrial incentives system would need to
focus on four major areas: (a) import protection system; (b) export
promotion measures; (c) investment incentives to domestic and foreign
private investors; and (d) incentives for regional dispersal of industry.
(a)  Restructurin  of t:he Import Protection System.  This would be
aimed at: (i improving the growth, efficiency, and
competitiveness oiE manufacturing industry; and (ii) encouraging,
in particular, exports and local resource-based and intermediate
goods industries. This would involve revisions of the customs
tariff, progressive liberalization of imports and streamlinirLg of
the import licensing system, consistent with future adjustments
in exchange rate and other pricing policies. However, in the
light of balance oDf payments constraints and the need to allow
existing enterprises to adjust with minimum disruptions to
changes in their policy environment, these revisions would need
to be carefully phased over the medium- to longer-term. The
objective would be to achieve progressively a lower and narrower
range of tariff rates and to minimize use of quantitative import
restrictions so as to put in place a more uniform industrial
incentives structure, based predominantly upon price-related
mechanisms and thus promote production in line with Nigeria'ls
comparative advantage. In order to promote recovery of
industrial production and employment, initial priority in import
liberalization would need to be accorded to raw materials,
intermediate goods, and spare parts. This should be accompanied
by customs tariff adjustments involving reduction of very high
(or "peak") rates, notably on certain consumer goods, and
increases in the still low rates on raw materials and components.
The tariff adjust:ments made in the Federal 1984 budget (para. 25)
are in the right direction but further adjustments are needed.
The studies under the proposed project would focus on formulating
medium-term policy proposals for consideration by the Government.
Studies would be needed to formulate further customs tariff
revisions and linked to this, a medium-term import liberalization
plan, and to assess their impact on specific industries. In
parallel with this, a monitoring system would need to be
established to provide prompt feedback to the Government on the



- 16 -
volume of import demand resulting from these measures and their
broader impact on the industrial sector.
(b)  Export Promotion.  The Government intends to develop a package of
export incentives which minimizes the current bias against
exports relative to production for the local market due to the
past appreciation of the Naira, as well as to tariffs and other
import protection measures. The package, after careful study,
could include inter alia: (i) a reactivation of the existing
(but presently inoperative) customs drawback scheme; (ii) a tax
credit on local content of export production to offset duties and
other indirect taxes on inputs into locally purchased goods and
the distortionary effect of the protection system on value added;
(iii) implementation of the already created export guarantee and
insurance scheme; (iv) special export credit schemes; and (v)
retained foreign exchange accounts or a foreign exchange
revolving fund to provide foreign exchange cover for pre-shipment
financing of imports by exporters.
(c) Investment Incentives. The Government proposes to review
existing fiscal investment incentives to make them more
meaningful to investors without creating an undue burden on the
Government budget and to ensure that they are simple to
administer and do not create distortions in resource allocation.
As part of this review, the impact of the existing tax holiday
scheme and capital depreciation allowances would be evaluated
particularly as regards their apparent capital-intensity bias.
In addition, the feasibility of alternative fiscal incentives
such as improved tax credits for in-plant training by industry
(e.g. through strengthening and expanding the existing Industrial
Training Fund program) would need to be assessed. Special focus
would be given to review of the foreign investment regime to
streamline foreign investment regulations so as to increase
flexibility and to attract increased foreign capital inflows and
technological and managerial expertise. Studies for
strengthening investment incentives would be carried out once
preparation of reforms of the trade protection system was at a
sufficiently advanced stage. Some preliminary steps in this
direction were announced in the FMGN's 1985 budget.
(d)  Incentives for Regional Dispersal.  As noted earlier, the current
incentives system has encouraged imported input-intensive
industries which tend to locate in or near Lagos.  The Government
is keen to stimulate regional dispersal by encouraging small- and
medium-scale industries as well as industries based on local
natural resources, so as to spread geographically the benefits of
industrialization and to counteract the diseconomies of
industrial concentration particularly in Lagos. Restructuring
the import protection system (para. 39(a)), by giving greater
encouragement to local resource based industries, would be one of
the most effective means of stimulating efficient regional



- 17 -
dispersal.  However, the feasibility of additional measures would
need to be considered. These could include fiscal incentives fEor
investment in certain disadvantaged regions, increased technical
and financial assistance to small and medium scale industries,
and increased emphasis on public investment in industry-related
infrastructure and support services. An integrated approach to
encourage efficient regional dispersal incorporating these
elements is desirable. There are however clearly limits to the
extent that regional dispersal can be encouraged without
compromising economic efficiency considerations. As recent
public sector investment experiences have shown, regional
dispersal of indust:ries to greenfield sites distant from markets
and raw material sources can incur high infrastructure and
operating costs. IJnder the proposed project, a detailed study
should formulate specific measures for encouraging efficient
regional dispersal.
Improving Efficiency of Publ:ic Sector Investments in Industry
40.       A major policy issue facing the Government concerns the role aLnd
scope of existing and planned public sector industrial investment. As
noted earlier (para. 26), public sector industrial investment has been very
substantial in the past decade and has been concentrated in direct
investment in large, capital-intensive projects. This trend is in line
with the experiences of other oil economies, and public investment can be
expected to continue to play an important role in Nigeria particularly iLn
basic industries. However, experience points to the priority need for
improved efficiency and for a more selective approach based upon more
clearly defined investment priorities to ensure adequate anditimely funding
of projects. Also in line with the Government's industrial development
strategy, greater emphasis is needed on support investments (in
infrastructure and services) aimed at promoting increased private
investment.
41.       Major public sector resource constraints since 1981 have caused
substantial cutbacks and deferrals in public investment. Resource
requirements for ongoing and planned new public investments in
manufacturing over the Fiftb, Plan Period (1986-90) greatly exceeds likely
resource availability (para. 27). The Government'is reviewing the public
investment program in industry and other sectors and reevaluating
priorities, and in its 1984 and 1985 budgets it deferred several public
sector investment projects and is keeping many of them at the study stage
only. Emphasis is being given to completion of ongoing "core" projects.
The Bank's 1983 review of the public expenditure program concluded that:
(a) scarce available resources should be focussed almost exclusively upon
completion of viable ongoing projects so as to minimize further cost
escalation and to realize their economic benefits as soon as possible; (b)
given resource constraints :Ln 1984-86, several major ongoing projects would
need to be rephased and reshaped to achieve feasible cost savings; (c) more
detailed review and re-evaluation of some 30 projects would be needed with
priority given to several ongoing projects (notably in pulp and paper,



- 18 -
sugar refining, industrial fishing, engineering goods, cement) which are
variously facing technical, financial and management problems; and (d) the
major investment programs in steel and in petrochemicals need to be
re-evaluated and rationalized to improve their efficiency and reduce their
costs.
42.       On the institutional side, there is need to: (a) strengthen
procedures for planning, implementation and monitoring of public sector
industrial projects; and (b) progressively improve the Government's
capability, systems and procedures for technical and economic evaluation of
investment projects, particularly as regards large, capital-intensive basic
industry projects.
43.       With a more selective approach to direct public investment in
manufacturing industry, limited to activities mainly in basic industries
which are viable but unlikely to be undertaken by the private sector alone,
public investment strategy could be reoriented in the medium-term to expand
investment in industrial support services and industrial infrastructure.
This could include credit through development finance institutions,
industrial promotion services, manpower and vocational training centers,
entrepreneur assistance schemes, power and water supply, transportation and
telecommunications.
Strengthening Industrial Promotion Services
44.       While the proposed reforms of industrial incentives policies are
aimed at creating a policy environment conducive to more efficient and
balanced industrial development, improvements would also be needed in
industrial promotion efforts to stimulate increased domestic and foreign
private sector industrial investment. These would focus on: (a)
streamlining the regulatory environment governing private industrial
investment and production; and (b) strengthening industrial promotion
services. Such efforts would need to bes carefully planned and designed so
as not to overstretch government staffing capabilities. In recent years,
the Government has steadily tried to expand its dialogue on incentives and
promotion policies with the private sector through joint workshops,
seminars and regular meetings. This should provide a basis for encouraging
increased private sector participation iLn identifying promotion needs and
also in providing promotion services.
45.       The first priority is to streamline the regulatory framework to
facilitate private sector activity by simplifying existing regulations and
dismantling ones which are redundant or have undesirable distortionary
effects. Although the Government has recognized the need for such steps,
considerable progress is still required. The role of the Incentives
Administrative Department in FMCI needs to be consolidated so that it has
the authority to act effectively as a "one-stop agency" for industrial
approvals, and the capability to provide! time'ly service to entrepreneurs.
Also, a legal review body needs to be set up ito carry out a systematic
review of industry-related legislation and regulations to remove



- 19 -
inconsistencies and minimize the overlapping jurisdictions that have
evolved. Simplifying the regulatory framework could also help free-up
qualified and experienced manpower in Government which could then be
redeployed to strengthen promotion services.
46.       Alongside streamlining the regulatory system, the strengthening
of industrial promotion efforts through new or existing institutions would
have to be a gradual process. Particular attention should be given to: (a)
information services, including basic industrial statistics, business and
market information, and geological and other survey data; (b) pre- and
post-investment services especially for foreign investors; (c) industrial
and technological research; (d) strengthened manpower training programs;
and (e) additional resources development finance institutions for financing
term investment. Given the Government's resource constraints and efforts
currently under way to streamline public administration, effective creation
of such services is likely to be feasible only some years hence. The
objectives under the proposed project are, therefore, necessarily limited
and will involve a study to formulate a longer term industrial promotion
strategy, to design cost-efiective institutional arrangements and to help
prepare for subsequent implementation.
'PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The proposed project was identified as a part of sector work on
Industrial Incentives carried out by the Bank at the Nigerian Government's
request. The findings of this work, including the need for the technical
assistance, were discussed with the Government in May 1983. The proposed
project has been designed in close collaboration between Government
officials and Bank staff. A Bank mission in July 1983 assisted the
Government in project preparation. The proposed project was appraised in
October 1983. Post-appraisal missions to Nigeria in March 1984 and
November/December 1984 reached agreement with the new Government on the
overall project design and scope. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. in March 1985. Annex 3 provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
48.       The proposed project would support the Nigerian Government'E;
industrial restructuring efforts (para. 25) by strengthening policy
analysis, industrial promotion, and public investment project appraisal and
implementation capabilities, and through studies to formulate policy
proposals and action programs. The specific objectives of the projecl: are
to assist the Government in: (a) strengthening the institutional framework
for formulation and coordination of industrial policy in the FMCI through
organizational improvements and provision of expert advisory services,
training of staff, and comuputer hardware and software; (b) developing a set
of industrial incentives policies and industrial promotion measures aimed



- 20 -
at stimulating more efficient private sector industrial growth, by
financing the policy analysis studies required for this purpose; and (c)
improving the efficiency of public sector industrial investments by
financing technical assistance and studies aimed at overcoming problems
that prevent the realization of full benefits from several public sector
industrial projects.
Project Description
49.       The proposed project would finance the following activities to
accomplish the project objectives: (a) the provision of expert advisory
services to a Policy Analysis Unit (PAIJ), and an Industrial Policy,
Planning, and Promotion Team (IPPPT) within FMCIrs Policy Analysis
Department (PAD) (paras. 56 and 57); (b) in-service and overseas training
and orientation visits for staff of the PAD, FMCI, and other concerned
Government agencies, and provision of computer equipment and service
facilities for PAD; and (c) consultant services for selected industrial
policy and project studies aimed at restructuring the incentives system,
stimulating investment and growth in private industry and improving the
efficiency of public sector investments. Details of the project activities
are provided below and a schedule for project implementation is provided in
Annex 4.
Detailed Features of the Project
50.       Advisory Services.  To assist the PAD staff in analyzing high-
priority medium-term industrial policy issues and to formulate appropriate
policy measures, the Government has requested, and the project would
provide, financing of four advisors for a total of about 120 man-months.
The advisors would have expertise in the following areas: tariffs, trade,
export promotion, and industrial incentives policies, industrial promotion,
regional dispersal, pre- and post- investment services and project
appraisal and evaluation. These advisors should be in place by February 28,
1986 (Section 3.03(b) of Loan Agreement).
51.       The role of the advisors would be to provide technical advice and
support to the professional staff of the PAD in establishing the
capabilities for necessary policy analysis, data processing and collection,
projects analysis and industrial promotion activities during the project
period. They would provide on-the-job training and support to help create
permanent policy analysis and promotion capabilities. It is expected that
their responsibilities would be progressively phased out as these
capabilities became fully established within the Government.
52.       Training and Equipment.  This component would comprise:  (i) a
three-year program for training of selected government staff in analysis
and implementation of industrial projects and in industrial promotion
techniques; (ii) short-term study/orientation visits abroad for staff of
the PAD and other concerned government agencies to gain exposure to the
approaches and experiences of other countries with industrial reforms; and



- 21 -
(iii) provision of computerized data processing and analysis facilities
(hardware, software and back-up support) to be used by the PAD.
53.       The in-house training program would aim at enhancing the skills
of the staff of the PAD, other FMCI departments, and other concerned
Government agencies in: (i) project appraisal and implementation techniques
for public sector industrial investment projects (particularly large scale
projects in basic industries); and (ii) provision of industrial promotion
services to the domestic and foreign private sector. The training concept
and approach would be to organize a series of short intensive courses in
specific skill areas. The participants, over a three-year period, would be
expected to intersperse repeater courses in their particular need areas
with on-the-job experience. This is expected to enhance the relevance of
the training to the work of the trainees' sponsoring units. This training
would be complemented by a program of short study visits by senior
officials of the PAU, IPPPT and other concerned government agencies, to
gain exposure to the experiences of other countries which have undertaken
industrial policy reforms. In particular, valuable experience could be
obtained from other middle-income developing countries in the Far East and
South America. The Government has sought financial assistance from the
European Economic Community (EEC) to finance the in-house training program
and from UNDP/UNIDO to finance the study visits abroad.
54.       The policy analysis and formulation work of PAD would require
compilation and analysis of data. It is proposed to establish a data base
and a micro- or mini-computer facility for PAD. The proposed Bank loan
would finance the costs of: (i) hiring a systems analyst to assess the data
processing and analysis requirements of the PAU and IPPPT and recommend the
most cost effective solution for computerization; and (ii) computer
hardware and associated software, back-up support, and training of staff,
bearing in mind the need for compatability with other computing facilities
in the Government.
55.       Studies.  Studies to generate policy options and measures for
achieving the Government's medium-term industrial strategy objectives would
be undertaken in the following: (i) phased medium-term restructuring of the
industrial incentives and the import protection systems; (ii) measures to
reevaluate and improve the efficiency of public sector investments in
industry; and (iii) strengthening of industrial promotion services provided
by the Government to domestic and foreign private investors. It is
estimated that about 110 man-months of short-term consultancy services
would be required to carry out the program of studies. The studies would
be phased in accordance with the implementation schedule presented in
Annex 4. Outline terms of reference for the principal studies are
presented in Annex 5. The results of the studies would be the subject of
joint reviews by the Government and the Bank (para. 59). The
recommendations emanating from the studies could form the basis for future
Bank lending in the industrial sector.



- 22 -
Project Organization and Implementation
56.       The project would be implemented by the FMCI, which has already
established a Policy Analysis Department (PAD) to be headed by a
director-level official reporting to the Pernanent Secretary. The PAD will
carry out the work program under the project and propose the policy
reforms. It is expected that the work done by the PAD would: (a)
substantially improve the quality of analytical work underpinning the
policy recommendations; and (b) result in significantly better coordination
among the various organs of the Government concerning tariffs and trade and
industrial policy matters. PAD's policy proposals will receive high level
inter-ministerial consideration by the upgraded IDCC, after necessary
ministry-level clearances (para. 33). During; negotiations assurances were
obtained that the Government would have the P'AD's policy proposals reviewed
by the IDCC and that it would adequately organize and equip the IDCC for
that purpose (Section 3.03(c) of the Loan Agreement).
57.       The PAD includes two separate units:  a Policy Analysis Unit
(PAU) and an Industrial Policy, Planning, and Promotion Team (IPPPT). The
PAU and the IPPPT are each to be headed by an Assistant Director,
experienced in government administration and having a substantial
understanding of the policy issues and analytical techniques involved. The
organizational structure, functions, and staffing requirements of the PAD,
including the PAU and IPPPT, are presented in Annex 6. The PAU will mainly
deal with review and reform of tariffs and trade policies, including export
promotion, which require involvement and cooperation of several ministries.
The IPPPT will mainly deal with issues in industrial promotion, public
sector industries, and industry specific aspects of the incentives system.
The PAD staff would be supported for the project period by four advisors
(paras. 50-51).
58.       The roles conceived for the recently created PAD (including the
PAU and IPPPT) and the IDCC are essential for the success of the project.
The Government has already established the PAID, including the PAU and
IPPPT, with a staffing structure and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and has designated the IDCC as the high level policy review body, with
terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank. Appointing
adequate suitably qualified Nigerian professional staff to both the PAU and
the IPPPT is a condition of effectivenesas of the proposed loan (Section
7.01 of the Loan Agreement). During negotiations assurances were obtained
from the Government that it would: (i) maintain and adequately staff the
PAD during the execution of the project; and (ii) provide sufficient funds
and facilities to the PAD to carry out the work programs of PAU and IPPPT.
59.       A tentative work program for the PAD, including an implementation
schedule for the studies, has been prepared and discussed with the FMCI
staff (Annex 4). During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that it would: (a) by April 30, 1986, submit to the Bank a
detailed three-year work program for the PAD and thereafter would annually
consult with the Bank regarding modifications to the agreed work program
(Section 3.04(a) of Loan Agreement); (b) undertake the studies in



- 23 -
accordance with arrangements agreed with the Bank including inter alia,
terms of reference, timetable and a budget for each study (Section 3.05(i)
of the Loan Agreement); (c) furnish a copy of each completed study to the
Bank and consult with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of each
study financed by the Bank loan proceeds (Section 3.05(ii) of the Loan
Agreement); and (d) exchange views with the Bank on implementation
proposals for policy changes and action programs emanating from the studies
(Section 3.05(iii) of the LoaLn Agreement).
60.       The hiring of the expert advisors and the consultants to carry
out the studies under the project would be the responsibility of the FMCI.
It is expected that a single lead internationally experienced consulting
firm would be contracted to provide both the advisors as well as other
specific (short-term) consult:ancy services under the components of the
project which will be financed out of the proposed Bank loan. This would
have the important advantages of ensuring timely provision of services aLnd
back-up support as needed, and single overall accountability for acceptable
quality work, and of minimizing the administrative burden involved in
organizing these major tasks. All experts and consultants to be employed
under the proposed loan would be required to have experience,
qualifications, and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank and the
Government, and would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Procurement of the cofinanced components would be according to the
procurement guidelines of the cofinanciers.
61.       Where local consulting firms are capable of providing the
services required, joint venture between the foreign and local consulting
firm and/or subcontracts by the foreign firm to a local firm would be
sought so as to contribute t:o the development of lo'cal consulting
capabilities. In such collaborative efforts: (a) the contribution of the
local firm should be the maximum of which it is capable; (b) the contract
between the international and the local firm should define which services
are to be provided by each fcirm, and where the leadership and the ultimLate
responsibility for providing the services lie; and (c) suitable training
arrangements for development of local capabilities should be included. The
consultant proposals would be required to indicate the approximate number
of man-months to be provided respectively by local and for4ign staff.
62.       For those components of the project which would be financed by
the cofinanciers the Government intends to consult regularly with the Bank,
to ensure proper coordination of all project activities and their
consistency with overall project objectives. The Government also intenlds
to communicate to the Bank their interim and final reports. In addition
the Bank would maintain active consultation with the cofinanciers to ensure
coordination and avoid gaps; or duplication of efforts.
63.       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PAD would
prepare and send to the Bank quarterly progress reports in a format
satisfactory to the Bank, covering the activities of the PAU as well as the
IPPPT. In addition progress on the studies and the work program of the PAD
would be monitored by the Bank during regular supervision missions and the



- 24 -
Bank staff would be closely associated with the implementation of the
studies and periodic meetings would take place with the consultants and the
PAD staff. An in-depth mid-term review of the project would be organized
approximately 18 months after loan effectiveness to assess progress
achieved and to make modifications as necessary in the remainder of the
work program (Section 3.04(b) of the Loan Agreement). Assurances were
obtained from the Government that it would prepare and submit to the Bank a
project completion report not later than SiX months after the closing date
of the proposed loan.
Status of Project Preparation
64.       The upgraded IDCC has been formally constituted; and the PAD
created within the FMCI, and its functions, staffing and responsibilities
approved by FMGN. Concerning the recruitment of PAD professional staff,
job descriptions have been prepared and advertisements are to be published
for the positions by end-August and the core! positions are expected to be
filled by January 1986. As regards the selection of the lead consulting
firm, detailed draft terms of reference for the bid invitations package
have been prepared; short listing of f:[rms and issuance of invitations to
bid is expected by September 1985. The consultants are expected to have
been selected and the advisors to be in place by February 1986.
Project Cost and Financing
65.       Total project costs, includirng contingencies, are estimated at
US$8.6 million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$4.1 million or about 48 percent of the total cost. Price
contingencies for the foreign exchange component are based on 7.5 percent
in 1986 and 8 percent per annum for 1987-90. Local price contingencies
have been estimated at 14 percent per annum for the period 1986-90. The
amount of consulting and expert services is estimated at about 230
man-months. The Government would provide about 360 man-months of local
professional staff-time as well as the office! facilities and support
services which are included in the total cost of the project as part of the
Government's contribution.
66.       The proposed loan of US$5.0 million equivalent would finance 58
percent of total project costs. This represents the foreign as well as
local costs of the advisory services, short-term consultancies, and the
computer equipment and services. Financing of local costs is justified in
view of the Government's budgetary austerity and the important support the
project gives to the Government's efforts to restructure the industrial
sector. Retroactive financing of US$400,000 is proposed to cover
expenditures eligible for IBRD funding (mainly consulting services)
incurred from April 1, 1985. The Goverrment would provide US$1.9 million
of local cost, representing the cost of counterpart staff, office space,
equipment and materials and local travel.  For the remaining US$1.6 million
of the total project cost, cofinancing has been requested from the EEC and
UNDP/UNIDO. Processing of cofinancing arrangements is at an advanced state
in both cases, and prospects are very good that the required cofinancing



- 25 -
will be forthcoming.  It is expected that: (a) the EEC would fund the local
in-house training component, and cement industry studies; and (b) UNDP
would fund and UNIDO would prepare and supervise the study/orientation
visits abroad and the two longer-term strategy studies on public investment
implementation and management, and on industrial promotion. These
components, which are not scheduled to get under way until the third
quarter of 1986, will be important to complement the on-the-job training
and other studies under the project. EEC and UNDP/UNIDO cofinancing would
be in parallel to the proposed Bank loan.
Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Audit
67.       Procurement.  Selection of advisers and consultants to be
financed out of the Bank Loan would be carried out by FMCI, in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published in August 1981. The short list of
consulting firms and all terms of reference, qualifications, experience,
terms and conditions of employment of consultants, selection procedures and
contracts would be subject 1:o the Bank's prior approval. Procurement of
computer equipment would be in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, based upon the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in August 1984; and selection
procedures and contracts would be subject to prior Bank approval. The
computer equipment, software and back-up and technical services would be
provided under "limited international bidding", in view of the importance
of ensuring that only equipment for which adequate back-up support is
available in Nigeria is considered.
68.       Disbursements would be on the basis of 100 percent of
expenditures for: (i) the short-term consultancy services for studies
(US$2,460,000); (ii) the expert advisory services to the PAU and the I]?PPT
(US$2,090,000); (iii) computer equipment and software (US$200,000); and
(iv) a revolving fund (US$250,000). All disbursements would be fully
documented with the exception of reimbursements applications related to
contracts of less than US$10,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed on
the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE); supporting documents related
to withdrawals under SOEs would be retained in a central location, and made
available for review by vissiting missions. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that the minimum reimbursement application size would be
US$20,000 equivalent. Disbursements are expected to take place over the
period FY1986-90. A revolving fund in the form of a special account in
foreign currency would be established by FMCI to facilitate the payment of
project related expenditures eligible for reimbursement from the proceeds
of the Bank loan. An init:Lal deposit of US$250,000 would be paid into a
special revolving fund account. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
69.       The PAD would keep separate, clearly identifiable accounts for
the project expenditures and would maintain a separate sub-account for
disbursements under the revolving fund, and out of the proposed Bank loan.



- 26 -
These project accounts would be audited in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Beginning with the period ending December 31,
1985, the FMCI would prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly reports on
project accounts showing expenditures as well as commitments. Assurances
on the procurement, disbursement and account/audit arrangements described
above were obtained during negotiations.
Benefits and Risks
70.       A major benefit of the proposed project over the medium-term
would be formulation of a phased program of industrial policy reforms to
help accomplish the goals of industrial restructuring and growth in
Nigeria.  The studies to be financed under the project would generate the
policy proposals aimed at: (a) stimulating private industrial investment
and growth; and (b) improving the efficiency of public sector investments
in industry. The strengthening of the institutional framework would assure
better coordination and increased effectiveness of the Government in
implementation of its industrial sector strategy. The longer-term benefits
of the proposed project would be the creation of a permanent institutional
framework and capability in the Government for industrial policy design,
implementation and evaluation.
71.       There is some risk of delay in recruitment of consulting and
expert services under the project, owing both to the highly specialized
nature of expertise required and possible logistical and administrative
constraints. This risk is being taken into account in designing the
project: first, by identifying possible sources of consulting services and
initiating the selection process in advance, and secondly by seeking
cofinancing from donor sources and using the Bank loan to finance those
activities for which no alternative prospective source of financing is
available. While there is a risk that the Government may not adopt all the
policy proposals generated by the project, there is however widespread
recognition in the Government that the present set of industrial incentive
policies needs to be changed to meet the challenges of current difficult
economic environment (para. 30). In view of the above the risk is
considered acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AN'D AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank as well as the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreemnent are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex 3 of this Report. Appointment of adequate staff to the PAU and the
IPPPT (para. 58) would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan
Agreement (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).



- 27 -
74.       I am satisfied thlat the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 19, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                          ANNEX 1
Page 1 of.
NIGERIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                              REPRENCE GROUPS (wEIGtED AVEaES) 
MOST                     (MOST UCCNT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INC0NE           MIDDLE INCOME
1960.b     19701t ESTIMATE/b       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA A MID CAST
MAR  (Tom"= SQ. no-)
TOTAL                              923.8       923.8       923.8
AGRICULTURAL                       471.0       497.4       '13.4
GM P  CAPIT  (03$)                      ..          .. J70.0                    1063.8                   1134.9
_T GUWTION  M  CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)       20.0        35.0       143.0             581.5                     623.9
CUZLTION AM VITAL STAISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEMA (THOUSANDS)  51598.0    66182.0    93642.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)       13.1        16.4        22.0               32.0                     49.0
, POPIIATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                           162.7
STATIONUY POPULATION (MILL)                              532.0
POPULATION MOHENTUM                                        2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       55.9        71.6       101.4              65.1                      37.8
PER SQ. KH. AGRI. LAND           109.6       133.0       176.4             124.8                     470.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (7)
0-14 YRS                         45.4        46.6        47.5              45.6                      43.5
15-64 YES                         52.2        50.9       49.9               51.5                      53.0
65 AND ABOVE                       2.3         2.3         2.4                2.7                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5         2.7                2.9                      2.8
URBAN                              4.7         4.7         4.9               5.1                       4.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        51.5        50.9        49.5              47.0                      40.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        25.0        21.1       16.7               15.0                      11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.4         3.4               3.2                       2.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..          7.6
USERS (7 OF MARRIED LOMEN)         ..          ..          6.0               6.4                      21.4
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      100.0       102.0       82.0               82.9                      95.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIIS (2 OP   QUIRMNS)         86.0        81.0        94.0              98.5                     118.2
PtOTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.0        44.0        49.0              55.4                      77.8
OF WHICH ANIAL AND PULSE         10.0        11.0        11.0 Ic           16.5                      17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         37.4        286         17.0              16.6                      12.8
REALm
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TERS)        39.0        43,.5      411.6              52.0                      57.8
lNFANT NDRT. RATE (PER TOUS)      163.5       140.5       111.0             108.8                      96.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          .                42.4                      67.2
URBAN                              ..          ..          .                67.5                      93.4
RURAL                              ..          .,          ..               35.8                      45.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..               28.9                      45.9
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..               57.7                      63.0
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                20.7                      28.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         73710.0    24670.0    12550.0 Id          11791.7                    4331.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           4040.0 I.  5070.0      3010.0 7i          2459.8                    1845.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           3020.0 lf  2220.0       1180.0 /d          981.1                     621.8
URBAN                            430.0 7T    490.0       370.0 7j          368.8                     545.0
RURAL                          25630.0 77  18490.0     5490.01            4371.9                    2511.3
AMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..          ..          ..               27.2                      25.7
AVERAGE SIZZ OF IOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          4.7 /h
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVLEAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOm
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URIAN                              3.0         2.2 Ih
RURAL                              ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS WITH CLECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URUAN                              1.3        42.4 /h,
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                          Page 2 of 6
NIGERIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
PECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b      19701b  ESTIMATE/b       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    36.0         37.0        98.0 /d             95.7                       89.8
MALE                     46.0        47.0          ..                100.0                      103.7
FEMALE                   27.0        27.0          ..                83.2                        75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     4.0          4.0        16.0 /d             17.3                       42.9
MALE                      6.0         6.0          ..                 25.0                       50.9
FEMALE                    1.0         3.0          ..                14.8                        34.6
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)            4.8          8.5         3.1 /d              5.9                       10.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.0         34.0         ..                 41.1                       29.7
SECONDARY                           19.0         21.0         ..                 25.5                       18.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            0.6          0.9         1.4 /i             20.8                       17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           2.8         19.3        72.9               107.8                      175.9
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.0          1.1         5.0                20.8                       51.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               5.5          4.8         5.6                18.4                       37.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..           ..          0.3 /d              0.4                        2.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          21788.0      25992.0     33544.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.3         40.6        39.6                36.2                       11.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               71.0         62.0        54.0 /,             54.5                       42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.0         14.0        19.0 7i             18.3                       27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.2         39.3        35.8                36.8                       26.2
MALE                                50.3         47.3        44.0                47.1                       46.2
FEMALE                              34.4         31.5        28.3                27.2                        5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1          1.2         1.4                 1.3                        1.8
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..           ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
POVEXTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        696.0               590.7                      226.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        341.0               275.3                      134.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        621.0               545.6                      431.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        207.0               201.1                      326.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..          ..                  ..                        29.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are, population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977;  /d 1979;  /e 1962;  If Includes esr-North Cameroon under British administration;  aL 1976; lh 1972;
/i 1978;  /j 1980.
JUNE, 1985



-30-                                              ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
DEFINIMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the data ame drawn from sources gerally judged the most authoritanive anad reliable. it should also be noted that they may not be internationally
comparable because of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by differemn countries in collecting the data. The data are, nonethleas. useful to
describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major difference between countries.
The reference groups are (1) the same country group of the subject country and (2) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the countny
group of the subject country texcept for -High Income Oil Exporte" group where "Middle Income North Africa and Middle East" is chosen because of stronger
socio-cuiturat affinities). In the reference group data the averages are population weighted arithmetic means for each indicator and shown only when majority
ofthe countries in a group has data for that indicator. Since the coverage of countries among the indicators depends on the availability of data and is not uniform.
caution must be exercised in relating averages of one indicator to another. Thes averages are only useful in comparing the value of one indicator at a time akmong
the country and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                              Crttde Birth Rate (per tousand)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surfacc area comprising land area and inland waters;    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                           Crate Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricadtaral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to   Gross Reprodacn'on Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                               will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-speclfic fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)GNP per capita estimates at current             in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated bv same conversion method as World
Bank A4tlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                             Family Phuadc     Aeptors, Annual (thouads)-Annual num-
ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,         family Plaijw-Users (percent of married women)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geotherrnal elec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. V'Women
1982 data.                                                          of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although For
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     groups.
Total Popaltion. Mid.Year (thossands)-As of July 1; 1960, 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Index of Food Prodstction Per Capita (1969-7) = 100)-Index of per
Urbas Popxlation (percent of total)-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.         include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popuwtion Projections                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.      excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on      vegetables. fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these parameters     on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                 Per Capita Supply of Calories (percent of requirements)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level   tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also     food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for norrmal activ ity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, bodv weights.
the population i; the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                          waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to        Per Capita Supply of Protein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as    provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward, 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popaetion Density                                                   average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-       Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.                    Per Capita Protein Sapply From Animal and Pulse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Poplation Age Strxcture (pereext)-Children (0-14 years). work-      Child (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per tiousand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the satne age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.                  group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popn.atie Growth Rate (percent)-totai-Annual growth rates of        from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Populaio  Growth Rate (percext)-arban-Annual growth rates           Life Expectancy at Birth (years)-Number of years a new born
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-31-                                         ANNEX  1
Page 4 of 6
at the dme of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupd-teacher Ratdo  primry. and seendar-Total students en-
1960 1970 and 1933 data.                                        tolled in primary and econduy levels divided by numbers of
loIwa  Mertalfty Rate (pef theuand)-Number of infants who die   teachers in the corresponding levls.
before reaching one year of ap per thousand live barths in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Access to Safe Wwar (prewt of   e e al b,    Pxower Cars (Per thousand popeaIum)-Passenger cals com-
wnrl-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with resonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
acces to safe water supply (includes treated surlrace waters or  ances, heases and military vehicles.
untreated but unconuminated water such as that lfrom prottectd  Reado Receivers (Mr thousand populaton)-AIl types of receivers
borehole&, springs and  nitary wells) as percetanes of their mt pec  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
dve populations. In an urban are a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural ae    not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable accesa would imply that the houswfe or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  tv Receralpb (per tho usandpopulation-TV  receivers for boadcast
in fetching the faomily's water netts                           to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
in tccto Ere   Dbips l (percnt e f ea -tta                      receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Acruss tExet    pa    pv offokon-ta,ab                          in effect.
an rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspaper Cction (per thousand population)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the us of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Populaton per Physician-Population divided by number of prac-   Cinema Annwa Attendance per Capita per Year-Based on the
dsing physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Popultion pr Nursing Prson-oPopulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurse, assistant nurses,                C
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORE
PopUtwio per Hospital firted-tat, arban, and rural-Populadion   Total Labor Force (thousands)-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by thei       - epective number lof  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding hoLtsewives,
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialized  students, etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femak (percent)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agriculture (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 sind 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          Industry (percent)-Labor force in mining, constructioni, manu-
Admissions per Hosptal Red-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Pawticipaon Rate (percent )-otral, mak, andfemak-Parlicipation
HOUSING                                                         or activity rtes are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Average Size of Housel (persons per househohl)-4otal, wrba,     as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
and rural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statisticda purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persons per Room-total, urba, and rral-       Economic Dependency Ratdo-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pereentage of Dwelings with Elecnrie*ty-totad, urban, and rural-  Percentage of Total Disposabl Income (both ir cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Eurolment Ratios                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primory school - total, male and femaleGross total, male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absolute Poverty Income Level (USS per capita)-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countnes with universal  Estimated Relative Porerty Income Level (USS per capitc)-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urbain level is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male and female-Cornputed as above;   living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Population Below Absolute Poverty Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocational, or teacher training  cent)-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years oi'age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrolbnseni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial, or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            ' June 1985



- :32-                                         ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1S83                                          ANNUAL RATE OF BRUTH(t, Constant Prices)
USS Al1n      x                1975-80             1982                1913
6NP at Market Prices                      65621    100.0                  3.5                -2.3                -5.9
Gross Dooestic Investsent                  12879      19.6                1.2               -23.9               -20.4
Gross National Saving                       7344     11.2                 1.2               -39.4                13.0
Current Account Bilance                   -5567      -8.5                  -                   -                   -
Exports of Goods & nfs                    10668      16.3                 5.5               -23.7                -7.3
Imports of Goods & nfs                    14562      22.2                 6.3               -15.9              -24.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 19B3
Value Added                Labor Force /ai        Value Added per Worker
US$Mln M                       Mln        %                USS Iln      Z
Agriculture                                16817     25.6                20.3      58.3                 827      43.9
Industry I Mining                         23148      35.3                 6.9      19.8                3350    178.1
Services                                  25697      39.1                 7.6      21.9                3361.   178.7
Total/Average                         65652    100.0                 34.9    100.0                1981    100.0
6OVERNMENT FINANCE ib/
---------------------                       6eneral 6overneent                                Central Governeent
N Mln      As X of 6DP                           N "n       As I of 6DP
1q33     1983   1980-82                          1983      1983   1980-82
Current receipts                          12328      25.3      29.1                          7483      15.4      18.6
Current Expenditure                       14840      30.5      19.7                          9187      18.9      11.1
Current Surplus                           -2512      -5.2       9.4                        -1704      -3.5        7.5
Capital Expenditure                        8246      16.9      26.5                          4891      10.1     14.9
External Assistance (net)                  2760       5.7       2.7                          1107       2.3       0.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
------------------------                             1977      1978      :1979     1980      1981      1982      1983
(Million  laira Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                7813      7521      7949    14390    15239    16694    19035.
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)                    2452      3143      3313      3539      6299    10328    15475
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        3459      4485      5126      6744     8917    10567    11071
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money & Quasi Money as I GDP                         24.0      21.5      24.0      29.8      31.3     32.6      39.1
General Price Index(1975=100)                       143.0    165.7    196.3    204.9    247.5    266.5    319.8
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                 15.4      16.6      11.8      10.0     20.8       7.7      20.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                       345.0      28.2       5.4       6.8    *78.0      64.0      49.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       42.8      29.7      14.3      31.6     32.2      18.5        4.8
Note: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a/ Derived from planning documents and refers to the number of gainfully employed.
/bl Based on the 5overnment Budget estimates, IMF data, and World Bankt estimates.
August 12, 1985



-33-                                            ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1981-93)
__- -- -  - --   -                                                            -------------------------_ ----------
19811 /I 1992 IbI 1993 lb/                                 US$ mn        I
(millions US $)               Crude Oil              13440      97.3
Exports of Goods, nfs                      181194    13593    1068             Cocoa Products           225       1.6
Isports of Goods, nfs                     241.90    19991    14562             Palo Products             26       0.2
Tin                       32       0.2
Resource Gap (deficit   -)                -5296    -6408    -3894              Others                    90       0.7
Total             13913    100.0
Interest Payments (net)                     262      -829    -1059
Other factor Payments (net)                -4116     -383      -355
Net Transfers                               -565     -429      -260            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECENBER 31, 1984 Icl
Balance on Current account                -6515    -8048    -5567                                            US$ mln
Direct Foreign Investment                    546      431       365            Public Debt Including
Undisbursed                    25266
Met Official Borrowing                       513     1094      1291            Non-6uaranteed Private
Disbursement                              1416      1999      2785            Debt                              1299
Aeortization                              -603      -905    -1494
Total Outstanding and           -----
Other Capital (net)                          156     4066      2715             Disbursed                      19742
Errors and Omissions                         78        73        41
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 Idi
Overall Balance                           -f922    -2384    -1155             -------------------------------
_-- - - - - - __  --                             -- -X-       -
Reserve Movesents(Incr.-)                  4922      2384      1155                                            -----
Reserve Level                              3;895     1511       356           Public Debt Including
Undisbursed
Fuel and Related Material                                                     Non-6uaranteed Private
Imports                                                                       Debt
of which: Mineral Fuels                   29B       262.      201
Exports                                                                      Total Outstanding and
of which: Petroleue                    1U401    12777        9859            Disbursed                        20.2
EXCHANGE RATE                                                         IBROIIDA LENDING AS OF MAY 31, 1985
1978   Nl.00 = US$1.57                                                                               IBRD       IDA
1979   Nl.00 = US$1.66                                                                                ----     ----
1980 : N1.00 = US$1.83                                                   Outstanding L Disbursed  1247.0        36.7
1981   N1.00 = US$1.63                                                   Undisbursed                 973.0
1982   N1.00 = US$1.49
1993   Nl.00 = US$1.38                                                   Outstanding Including       -----    -----
1984   N1.00   US$1.31                                                    Undisbursed               2220.0      36.7
/al Provisional. lb/ Official esisates.
Icl Including short-term loans. Idl Ratio of MLT debt swrvice to exports of goods and non-factor services.
August 12, 1985



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
TN! STATUS OF BANt! GtOC? OPEgATIONS
A.  STATEME9" OF BANK GEOIIP O?61T&IOUS IN NItGIJIA /s
(As of  arch 31. 1985)
Loan or                                                                      USt Million
Credit                                                             Amount (less canceLlation)
Number   Year   Borrower       urpse                                ank    tDA    Undiabursed
Twanty eight loans and tvO credits fully disbursed                743.7    35.3 (b
1191     1976      Nigeria    E.C State Oil Pals                   19.0                 7.5
1591     1978      Nigeria    Nuc. Est. SualIholdet Oil            30.0                 1.6
1597     1978      NIDt        Industrial Developent               54.7                10.8
1667     1979      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Bida                   23.0                 2.9
1668     1979      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - hlorin                 27.0                8.8
1679     1979      Nigeria    Forestry                             31.0                3.6
1711     1979      Nigeria    Water Supply - Kaduna                92.0               67.0
1719     1979      Nigeria    Agric. & Rural Mgmt. 'onst.           9.0                 5.3
1766     1980      NhPA        Por Lagos                          100.0               63.4
1767     1980      Nigeria    Urban Development - Bauchi           17.8                8.1
1838     1980      Nigeria    AgriC. Dev. - Oyo-North              28.0               19.7
1854     1980      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Alkoko           32.5                19.3
1883     1908      Nigeria    Roads                                78.0               22.1
1981     1981      Nigsria    Agric. Dov. - Bauchi                132.0               46.6
1982     1981      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Kano                  142.0               86.4
2029     1981      Nigeria    Tech. Asasitance - Agric.            47.0               28.1
2036     1982      Nigeria    Water Supply - Anambrti              67.0               50.4
2085     1982      NEPA        Poer - Distributionz               100.0               70.6
2185      1982     Nigeria    Agrlc. Dew. - Sokoto                147.0               108.3
2299     1983      N7DB        Industrial Development             120.0               117.5
2345     1984      Nigeria    Fertilizer Import                   250.0              159.4
2376      1984     NBCI        Small & Medium Scala Industry    41.0                  40.8
*2390      1984     NNPC        Tech. Aast. - Gas Engineering    25.0                   25.0
**2436      19S4     Nigeria    Agric. Dev.   Kaduna                122.0               122.0
**2480      1985     Nigeria    Tech. Assistance                     13.0                13.0
**2503      1985     Nigeria    Health - Sokoto                      34.0                34.0
Total                                                 2,525.7      35.3  1.142.2
Of which has been repaid                                299.7       4.6
Total outstanding                      -                           30.7
Amount sold                       16.8
Of which ha. been repaid          ___                     0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA                          2,226.0    30.7
Total undisbursed                                                         1,142.2
8. STATEMEb'T OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of karch 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                     Type of          Amount in USS Million
Year                                       Business        Loan      Equity    Totl
1964. 1967.    Arowa Textiles Ltd.        Textile Mfg.    1.0         0.6        1.6
1970
1964            Nigeria Industrial         Dev. Fin. Co.              1.4        1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973            Funcue Cottonseed          Veg. Oil        1.6                   1.6
Crushing Ltd. Crushing
1973            Nigeria Aluminum           Aluminum        1.0        0.3        1.3
Extrusion Ltd.             Proctesing
1974            Lifiags  Sugar             Sugar                      0.1        0.1
Estate
1980            NTM                        Textiles        6.2        0.7       6.9
1981            Ikeja Hotel                Tourism        10.1        1.4       11.5
1985            Tiger Battery              Dry-cell        4.6         -         4.6
Batteries
Total gross comitsants                    24.5        4.5      29.0
Lacs cancellations, tarmina-
tions, repayments and sales              5.8        1.6       7.e4
Total comitmnt now held by IrC            18.7        2.9       21.6
Undisbunsed                                7.1        0.3        7.4
* Not yet signed.
* Not yet effective.
/a Tbh scttu of the projects Listed in Part A is descritbd in a sepaxrae
report on all Bank/rDA financed projects in executionD which is
updatod twIe yearly and Circulated to the fxecutive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.
/b  Prior to exchange rate edju sente.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
NIGERIA
INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 5 months
(b) Initial Discussion with the Bank: May 1983
(c) Appraisal Mission: October 1983
(d) Post-Appraisal Miission: November/December 1984
(e) Negotiations: March 1985
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: November 1985
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project would include a revolving fund of US$250,000 to
facilitate implementation of the project.
III.  Special Conditions
(a) Appointment of adequate staff to the PAU and the IPPPT
(para. 58) would be Conditions of Effectiveness.
(b) The Government to provide, annually, sufficient funds and
facilities in its budget to enable the PAU and the IPPPT to
carry out their work program (para. 58).
(c) A three-year Work Program for the PAU and IPPPT to be
prepared and submitted to the Bank by April 30, 1986, and the
Government to consult annually on any modifications (para. 59).
(d) Terms of Reference and implementation arrangements for each
study to be agreed with the Bank. The Government to furnish
copy of each comnpleted study to the Bank and consult on
findings, including implementation proposals, of the study
(para. 59).
July 1985



-36-                                                     ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Tentative Work Program Ind impementatIon Schedule for Studes (4985-88)
AR             _W                       88l68                    _n                      8868
CMRTER    1      2     3      4     4    2      3    4       1     2     3     4      1    2      3     4
A RESTRUJCTURING Of INCENTtVES i TRADE PROTECTION REGIME
I Update World Bank CalculatIons on SPR's
2 Assess Anomalies & Other Parameters/Factors Relevant
to Formulating 1987 Retorrns
3 Assess Impact 0 19E4-46 Plicites 
4 Detewrrine & Estabflish (a) Polcy Instruments forosssessrent_
(t) Methd0ologica3l Base tor Anolyss of EP's & Related
Assessments at Elastcities. mpoct on BOP & Impact an
Government Revenues (c) Dato Base tor Analysis (d)
Principles ta Use at Policy Instruments
6. Determine Institutiond & Admnirstrative Mechranis-ms
for Review
7 Determine (a) Priority Subsectors (0) Priority Products                            _
tor Detaled Study (see olso SUBSECTOR STUDIES)
& Carryour Anc,ss sta
(a) Medium Term Plan tcr Rationaizring & Liberalizing
Import Licensing & Other OR s
(b) Medium Term Plan tar Reforming Tar,t & Other
Import Protection Measures
(c) Step-wise Retorms ot Imprt Prtection System tarPriarity
Subrectors & Products (see also SUESECTOR STUDIES)
9 Review Institutionor & Pracedural Mechanisms
10 Estoblisth Monitoring/Systems Requirements& PrCleduuestr_
Reviewing & Assessing Imoact ot Retfoms
11 Prepare
(a) Medium Term Plan tar Rationalizing & Liberolizing OR's
(b) Medium Term Plan taf Tariff & RelateC Retorms
(c) 1987 Retams
(d) 1988 Reforms
(e) 1089 RetormTs
B. EXPORT INCENTIVE MEASURES
1 Review Existing Expot Incentive Measures. (i) Customs
Drowback Scheme: (ii) Export Credi & Insuronce Schemes:
(iii) OtherAssistance to Exporters Assess in Relation to (a)
Deviation from Free Trade Environmoent: (b) Impact an Es-
ports: (c) Impoct on Revenue: (d) Administrative Impli-
cations: (e) Relationship to EPR's
2 Design Aternotve Export Incentive Measures & Assess in
Relation to (a) to (e) obove
3 Prepare Recommendotaons for Export Incentives & Adminis-
Rtaive Requirements & Procedures
C. IFESTMENT INCENTIVES MEASURES
I Determine Principies to be Used in Redesigning & Imple-
menting Investment Incentives System
2 Assess Existing Investment tnventives (a) Tax Holiday ( Piov-
neer Industry ) Scheme. (b) Capitol Deprection Allo-
wances (C) industrial Training Fund: (d) Tas Allowancestor
R&D Assess in Relation to (i) impoct of Import Protecton
Regime: (li) Capital-intensity Bos of Industry (iii) Impact on
Government Revenues: (iv) Administrative implicotians; (v)
Resu.ting Level & Economic Viability at Investmentt.
3 Determine Alternative Incentives tor Detailed Assessment
4 Assess Atternative Incentives & Prepare Recommendation
D PROMOTION Of FOREIGN INVESTMENTS
1. Review Existing Regulations Goveming FaPoegn Investment/
Technical Collaboration  Assess Impoct on: (i) Capital
IhRow, (ii) Access to Foreign Morietse (iii) Buila Up of Lpcoa
Technological Capability. Including Manogement Sells
2. Review Institutional & Procedure Mechanisms tar (a) Promo -
tion: (b) Screening: (c) Appraving, (d) Monitorng. Poreign
Investment & Technoogy Artangernents
3 Prepare Recommerndations fo (a) Changes i n Regulations
Govreming Fareign Investment/TeChnical Cdraboration &
(b) Instutional & Procedure Mechanisms tar Promotion
Screening. Approving & Monitring.
5                .E REGIONAL WSPERS  POLICIES
1 Review Existing Plicies Reloting to Regbnal Dispersal In-
cluding (a) Fiscal Incentives. (b) Industnal Estates: (c)
Locational Policies: (a) Small Scale industry Policies: & (e)
Intrasrructural & Public Investment Polices. Assess Impact
on Regional Dispersal ot (a) to (e) Including Cost Effective-
ness of Measures                                                                                                                             I
2 Review Effect of Overall Incentives SYstem on Regional
Dispersal
3 Assess Alternative Regonal Dispersal Measures including
Their (a) Cost Effechveness & Impact on Government
Revenue: (I) Encouragernent ot Desirable Regionally
Dispersed Actiity
4 Prepare Recomrmendrlains tor Strategy tor Regional
Dispersol & Incentve/Support Meosures Including
Monitoring System tarAssessing Impoct
May   1985                                                                                                                                       World Bof*-26W6



37                                                    ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
NIGERIA
INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Teritotfve Work Program and Implernentation Schedule for StudIes (1 98-88)
RE_R           19Ui                    1986                    1987                     1988
CARTER    I    2       3     4     1    2      3     4      1    2    3       4     1     2    3      4
F REyjEW OF PUWIC SECTOR iNSIMN T  PROJECTS IN
INDUSTtl^LSECOR
1¼ Establs Methodologca Base for (a) Review of Ongoinrg
Prots (b) Nlw Projects (c) Support Investment
2 Revie  Ongoin Praiects & Proams
(a) iron & Ste"l
(0) Peroditeniodi
(C) OthWr Proects with Over 30 Millon for Conpletion
(0) Small PFroects
(e) Support Investments
3 On Basis of RevSeW, Determine
(a) Prorities tor Completion
(b) Action Ptarans forCornpietl adViable Projects Wit in
Context of BudTgetary Constraints
4. Review New Pteroct at Present in Ptpeline & Prepare Recam-
rmendations tar Action/Nortaction
S. Establisth Systenm for Muiti-year Foward Investment Prograrms
Relate to SUBSECTOR StUDIES & OTHER POLICY REFORMS
6 Input into Forward Investment Programs
(a) 1987
(b) 1988                                                                                                                                    _
(c) 1989
G. PUUC SECTOR PROJECT EVALUAION & MANAGEMENT
1. Preparation of Evaluation Manu_al
2 Deteffnine Instltutronol Responsibiliies
3 Speciications of Procedures tor ProWect Implementation_
Incluclnrg
- AssessTent of Internatioral Tendering Systemn
- Preparation of Financial Plans
-Asmnent of Desirability of Establishing a Monitoring Unit
4 Spec-ication of Approach to Montoringi Projects Once
Implemented
5 Asss Performance of AreadY Establshed Projc_ts
6 Revew & Prob n-SArg o Factor Afedting Irnp_nerrrer_                                                                       _     _          __
tot ron of Ongoing Protects
H. SIRENGTHENING INDtSIRiAL PROMOtION SERWICES
1. Review of Regulaty Mechansnns Affecting Estaloishmrenrt
& Operations of Prvate Entetprrses
2 Review Role, Functions & Procedures tf (a) DCC. (b) Oarer_
Regulatory Bodies (see adso IMPORT PROTECTION REGIME
FORESiN INVESTMENT)
3. Review Infastructure. Manpower & Other Constraints Altict-
ing Irndustal Develpment (see also SUBSECTOR STUDIES )
4 Assess Adequaxcy of (a) Investmnent Prontation; (0) Pre & Post
Investment Support Services; & (c) Industriol Estate Program
Assess Advsbtility of Chonneillng Adiational tunds to
Finance Institutions
5 Preppre Recomndtions tor
(a) Streoarnining Regulatory ttechotrtsm
(b) Role, Functions&ProceduresoflDCC&OtherfRegulotory
Bodies
(c) Improving Investment Pronotion Capobildres
(d) Pre & Part Investment Services to be Oftred
(e) Industrial Estote Programs
(t) Fundr to Finopini Instiutions
1. SUYSECTOR SBtUES
1. Review of Prst Industrit Planning Methodologies &
Mechanirms Including Relkatonshipto Investment Incentives
System. Also Review Market Imperections & Poacy Instru-
ments (see other studies)
2. AssessimpioationsofProposedDirectionofPolicy Retoison
Methrodologies & Mechtawsms tor hdustral Planting.
3. Establish Approach to Industrial Planning in Light of Propoxed
Policy Reforar  PFarticularry Suhsectar Promotion
4 Specification of (a) Grudelnes tar Subsectrx Studies (b)
Boundaris of Subsector. (c) Prtorrties tar Suosector Studies
(d) Mechanirms faor Caryvng Out Studies (e) Relationship of
Subsecta Studies to Other Studies
5 Corny Out Subsedtar Studies & Prepae Recommendatkxo
(including tinetuning of IMPORT FROTECTION & OTHER
INCENtlE MEASURES)
Subsectar                                                     I 2
Subsector 3
Subsedir
SubsectarS 
Other Subsectas                                                                                                       - m-        _
6 Establish Mechonsss fr Implementin  Suboector SpicifIc                 i                                                   -
Poiies & for Ther Subsequent Monitcrng & Review
May 1985
World Bank-269 7



- 38-                   ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIA
INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PRINCIPAL STUDIES
Restructuring of the Import Protection Regime
1.        The objective of these studies would be to develop proposals for
reform of the import protection regime in Nigeria. Detailed objectives
would be the following:
(a) Preparation of a scheme of a phased restructuring of tariffs and
progressive relaxation of import restrictions. This would
involve consideration of the role of both across-the-board
reforms as well as adjustment on an industry or "product tree"
basis taking account of industry and product linkages.
(b)   Determination of the principles for the use of the various
import protection measures, particularly tariffs, and the
development of decision-rules which would enable the setting of
the level of tariffs for different commodities.
(c)   Preparation of each phase of the reform of the import
protection regime will require assessment of the relative
incentives (effective rates of protection) enjoyed by different
industries to determine the appropriate means for adjusting
incentives for major groups of activities. The proposed study
would, therefore, involve analysis of protection rates, at
least for major industries in the light of changing economic
and policy environment (computerized data from the 1979-80
survey could be made available by i:he Bank).
(d)   Analysis of the impact of recommencded changes in tariffs and
other import protection measures OTI different industries.
(e)   Study of the need for adjustment assistance to particular major
industries and proposing specific measures as the medium-term
reform progresses.
(f)   Study of institutional and administrative processes relating to
the setting of tariffs and other import protection measures
(including anti-dumping provisions).



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
Design and Development of Export Promotion Incentives
2.        There is a need to promote non-oil manufactured exports.  The
purpose of this study is therefore to design an effective package of export
promotion measures which could include:
(a) A scheme to enable exporters to purchase their raw material at
internationally competitive prices, including rebate of import
duties and other taxes. The present customs draw-back scheme
would be examined to see how it could be reactivated and
streamlined.
(b) Export assistance measures, including tax credits and other
fiscal instruments, to compensate for any disadvantage to
exporters arising from high local costs as well as any taxes
which are difficult: to rebate.
(c)  Scheme for the retention of foreign exchange earnings by
exporters.
3.        Subsequent work could be carried out to design complementary
schemes for the promotion of manufactured exports including export
promotion zones, export marketing assistance and export credit programs.
This study will be synchronized with the studies of the effective
protection system and export incentives introduced along with the
step-by-step reform of the tariff structure.
Design and Development Investment Incentives
4.        The purpose of this study will be to design an effective package
of investment incentives. This will include:
(a)  A review of the investment incentives at present available, and
an assessment of their effectiveness. This will include
particularly a more thorough assessment of the adequacy and
resource allocation effects of the Pioneer Industries scheme mnd
of the adequacy of the present rate structure of capital
depreciation allowances based upon more complete firm and/or
activity level information.
(b)  An assessment of the potential means and usefulness of building
additional incentives for industry into the taxation system,
including the desirability of replacing existing incentives.
The study will address the question of the need for introducing
new types of tax iLncentives e.g., those related to expenditure on
R&D, training of labor, regional dispersal, etc. and evaluate
them against the alternative of keeping the tax administration
simpler and more effective with very few deductions and
exemptions.
(c)  The preparation oE guidelines and criteria for evaluating the
existing and proposed incentives.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
Review and Amendment of Foreign Investment Policies and Guidelines
5.        This study would involve a review of existing regulations
governing foreign investment/technical collaboration to assess their impact
on: (i) capital inflow; (ii) access to foreign markets; and (iii) the
build-up of local technological capability in priority areas of industrial
development.
6.        This will involve generating approaches to the promotion of
foreign capital and technical collaboration in line with Nigeria's
industrial development objectives.
Development of Regional Dispersal Policies
7.        The objective of these studies would be to devise an integrated
approach to encourage the efficient regional. dispersal of industry. The
studies will cover:
(a)  The specification of policy measures, such as special limited
period fiscal incentives, which could be adopted to encourage
investment in industrial activities at locations outside major
urban centers.
(b) The identification of infrastructural and other support measures
which would assist in overcorning the principal problems
discouraging industry from locating in "disadvantaged" areas.
(c) An assessment of the desirability of establishing regional growth
centers where provision on a priority basis of infrastructural
facilities and other support services would encourage industrial
development.
(d) The identification of industries wihich lend themselves to
regional dispersal, notably those based on local natural and
agricultural resources.
8.        The extent to which the general po:Licy reforms will serve to
encourage regional dispersal will be an important part of these studies.
Industry and Other Decontrol Studies
9.        The basic objective of these studies would be to recognize the
policy and non-policy originating distortions and market imperfections,
many of which are industry-specific, vhich serve to constrain efficient
resource allocation and desirable investments, with the aim of preparing a
schedule of steps for:



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
(a) The dismantling of undesirable regulations and controls;
(b) The removal of other industry-specific bottlenecks and
constraints;
(c) Overcoming market imperfections; and
(d) Promotion of desirable investment.
The studies will include:
(i)    An assessment of the impact of incentives and pricing
system upon investment and productivity in a given
subsector and to specify the "fine tuning" of policy
reforms which would need to be carried out to allow
-      industries time to adjust to the new policy regime
(through modernization and rationalization where
applicable).
(ii)   A determination of the sub-sectoral bottlenecks and
constraints affecting the efficient development of the
sub-sector and specify measures which could be adopted. to
overcome them. Particular attention would be focussed on
regulations and controls which lead to inefficiencies and
the ways in which increasing local content and the further
processing of local raw materials can be encouraged
without cutting across efficiency considerations.
(iii) The identification of potential economically efficient: new
investment opportunities for private investment,
especially in further processing of local raw materiaLs
and the production of intermediate and capital goods, to
form part of "marketing" companion for new investments,
particularly foreign investments.
(iv)   The identification of necessary public investment
requirements in both industrial and support projects.
10.       Initially, these studies could focus on those industries
currently facing severe operating difficulties and/or constitute
sub-sectors which the Government regards as important in the future
development of the country (e.g. raw materials based industries). The
results of these studies will form an integral part in the formulation of
the medium- and long-term reforms of the overall incentive system.
Public Sector Industrial Planning and Project Implementation
11.       The principal output of these studies will be the specificat:ion
of the methodology and criteria which should be adopted for their
selection, evaluation and design for public direct investment projects and
the most suitable institutional and procedural arrangements for their
subsequent implementation and monitoring. This will require a review of
present approaches and:



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
(a)  The determination of suitable guidelines for isolating
potential projects during the course of preparing industry
sub-sector programs. Such guidelines should be consistent with
the overall policy framework emphasizing the limitation of public
direct investment to a small number of carefully selected
strategic projects in which private initiatives are not
forthcoming.
(b) The preparation of a methodology for the appraisal of potential
projects, including calculation of social costs and benefits.
This would include suitable guidelines for making the necessary
choices from among desirable projects in the light of budgetary
restraints.
(c) The isolation of institutional responsibilities for the
identification and evaluation of the projects and the
procedures for incorporating them in the public investment
program; and the specification of the approach and procedure for
implementing the projects and their subsequent monitoring once
they are implemented.
12.       As part of the work above, it will be necessary to:  (a) carry
out an assessment of the performance and impa'ct of already established
government sponsored projects; (b) review the factors affecting the
implementation of on-going projects, particularly those factors
leading to cost escalations and implementing delays; and (c) assess
specific projects already in the process of being established or being
proposed for implementation.
Strengthening of Industrial Promotion Services
13.       The basic objectives of these studies will be to determine:
(a) The public support investment and ol:her assistance measures the
Government should adopt to promote desirable private
investment.
(b) The most suitable institutional and procedural arrangements for
implementing and monitoring thes.. industrial promotion efforts.
The recommendations would need to take into account proposed
changes in the incentive system and in the underlying planning
and industrial policy-making processes which emerge from the
other studies. Particular attention will be paid to:
(i)    A review of the present regulatory measures adopted by
the Government to determine their efficacy relative to the
objectives set for them, the deficiencies in the operation
of the regulatory measures and the steps which should be
taken to simplify and streamlLne the administrative
procedures associated with them. This will include a
review of the operations of the IDCC.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
(ii)   A determination of the infrastructural, manpower and
other constraints affecting industrial development and the
design of a medium-term plan for the provision of support
investments to assist in overcoming these constraints (the
sub-sector studies will play an important role in the
identification of these constraints). The desirability of
proceeding with the plans for the establishment of
industrial free zones and estates should form part of the
investigations.
(iii)  An assessment of the desirability of channelling
additional funds to the development finance institutions
especially in lieu of public direct investment in small.-
and medium-sized projects.
(iv)   The specification of the pre- and post-investment
services which should be provided by the Government and
the institutional and procedural arrangements for their
provision. The respective roles of the existing
industrial promotion agencies and the operating arms oE
government need to be spelled out. The way in which the
results of sub-sector studies can be utilized for
investment promotion purposes will form part of these
studies.
June 1985



- 44 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA
INDUSTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Organizational Structure, Functions, and Staffing Requirements
of the PAD, Including the PAU and IPPPT 1/
1.        A Policy Analysis Department (PAD) has been established in the
Federal Ministry of Commerce and Industry incorporating two units: the
Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) and Industrial Policy, Planning and Promotions
Team (IPPPT).
Policy Analysis Department (PAD)
2.        The PAD will be responsible for formulating proposals for the
medium-term reform and strengthening of industrialization and trade
policies, including the incentives system, public investment planning and
promotion of private investment.
Objectives
The broad objectives of these efforts will be:
(a) to improve the economic efficiency and competitiveness of the
manufacturing sector, its longer-term growth potential and its
use of scarce resources in the economy, in line with Nigeria's
comparative advantage;
(b)  to promote increased use of domestLcally sourced raw materials
and intermediate goods where these can be efficiently produced;
and
(c) to promote more dynamic private sector investment and production
in industry.
Functions
The main functions of the PAD will be:
(a) to analyze existing industrial and related economic policies;
(b) to propose industrial policy :reform measures; and
(c) to monitor on a continuing basis the impact of these policies.
1/   Statement approved and issued by the Federal Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, April 29, 1985.



- 45 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
The PAD will work in cooperation with other departments of FMCI,
other concerned Federal Ministries and agencies, NISER, universities and.
other research institutes and with private industry.
3.        Recognizing that t'he areas of policy to be addressed by the PAU
and IPPPT fall administratively within the jurisdiction of different
Ministries and agencies of the Federal Government, the PAU and IPPPT will
coordinate their technical and analytical work closely with these concerned
agencies. To this end by decision of the Federal Executive Council in June
1984, the PAU and IPPPT have been empowered to: (a) call for and obtain
from the concerned agencies all necessary data and information needed for
their work; and (b) obtain active participation at the working level of
officials from these agencies, as needed, in inter-ministerial working
group to be established.
4.        The PAD will be headed by a Director who will be a senior
official with appropriate professional background and substantial
experience within the Government. He will be required to have a high
technical and administrative ability and a broad understanding of the
policy areas involved. He will report directly to the Permanent Secretary
(FMCI).
Policy Analysis Unit (PAU)
Functions
The main functions of the PAU will be:
(a)  to carry out policy analysis work on broader economic policy
instruments as they affect the structure of industrial
incentives;
(b)  to develop proposals for the medium-term reform of the incentives
system including the tariff structure, the quantitative
restrictions on imnports and export incentives policies, with a
view to promoting efficient industrial development in accordaLnce
with government policy objectives; and
(c)  to monitor on a continuing basis the impact of these policies on
the pattern of industrial development.
5.        The PAU will have the following personnel:
I Assistant Director: A Nigerian official with strong
technical and administrative ability,
appropriate professional background,
substantial experience and a strong broad
understanding of the policy areas and
analytical techniques involved in the
PAU's work.



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
1 Senior Advisor:      An internationally experienced consultant,
who should be an economist by background,
with extensive practical policy experience
in the area of foreign trade and
industrial development and in the
development and coordination of incentives
(which have important implications for the
impact on all sectors of the economy).
The Senior Adviser will also act as
overall leader and coordinator of the team
of internationally experienced advisers
located in the Policy Analysis Department.
1 Advisor:            One internationally experienced economist
with technical skills and practical
experience in analysis of tariff, trade,
export promotion, and related policies.
5-10 Professional       (Nigerian personnel)
Staff:                  - 2 economists
- 2 engineer economist/industrial
economists
- 1 financial analyst
- 1 statistician/economist with
substantial. experience of data gathering
and processing systems including
computerized data systems.
Industrial Policy Planning and Promotion Teaim (IPPPT)
Functions
6.        The main functions of the IPPPT will be:
(a) to carry out policy analysis work and studies on more
industry-specific aspects of the incentives system;
(b) to help strengthen arrangements for industrial planning
particularly for selection, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring of industrial projects in the public sector;
(c)  to design appropriate means for promoting private investment
(domestic and foreign); and
(d)  to prepare specific proposals for medium-term reforms in these
areas.
7.        More specifically, the IPPPT's work. will focus on:
(a)  developing medium-term policy reform proposals for revision and
strengthening of more directly industry-related incentives



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
(notably fiscal investment incentives, foreign investment
incentives and regional dispersal policies);
(b) undertaking or commissioning sub-sector studies to identify the
potential and constraints for development in selected "key"
industrial sub-sectors, including regulatory constraints, markaet
imperfections, and infrastructure bottlenecks, to provide the PAU
inputs for the medium-term reform of the incentives system and
feedback on specific sub-sector problems;
tc) strengthening the capability within the ministry for the
evaluation, and economic analysis of public sector industrial
projects and for monitoring the implementation and operations of
public sector industrial enterprises;
(d) developing and designing an institutional framework and
appropriate policies and schemes for strengthening industrial
promotion, particuLarly for domestic and foreign private
investment, including establishment of pre- and post-investment
services to the private sector;
(e)  assisting the relevant agency (e.g., IDCC Division) in developing
and designing the specific means for streamlining the
regulations-business permits, expatriate quota, foreign
investment, etc. and the procedures for the various approvals
required under these regulations as well as other incentives
scheme.
8.        The IPPPT will have the following personnel:
1 Assistant Director:  A Nigerian official with strong technical
and administrative ability, appropriate
professional background, extensive
experience and a strong broad
understanding of the policy areas and
analytical work involved in the IPPPT's
work.
2 Senior Advisors:      Internationally experienced consultants
who should be engineers/economists or
industrial economists with extensive
experience and who will be concerned with
the design, conduct and commissioning of
sub-sector studies and studies of pubLic
sector industrial projects.
3 Advisors:             Internationally experienced consultanits
who should be economists with extensive
work experience related to planning for
industrial development and industrial
promotion, including sub-sector analysis,



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
fiscal and other incentives for promoting
private industrial investment, and
industrial project appraisal.
3-11 Professional       (Nigerian personnel)
Staff:                 - 1 engineer/economist
- L economist with knowledge and
experience of project appraisal and
evaluation techniques
- I economist/administrator with several
years of experience in government
- 4 professional engineers with several
years applied experience in industry
(expected to be seconded from NISER-ICD.
9.        The IPPPT's advisors and professional staff would need to work in
cooperation with the officials of the Project Implementation and Management
Department and, in so far as their work pertains to the relevant specific
industry sub-sectors, with the Steel DeveLopment (of the Federal Ministry
of Mines, Power and Steel) and the NNPC. The IPPPT will also closely
coordinate its work with the other Federa:L Ministries and government
agencies concerned with different aspects of industrial development
policies, including, on the infrastructure side, matters relating to
education, science and technology, mines and power, water supply, etc.
10.       The Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) and the Industrial Policy,
Planning and Promotions Team (IPPPT) will prepare specific policy proposals
in their respective areas of responsibility and the Policy Analysis
Department (PAD) will secure their consideration by the Industrial
Development Coordinating Committee (IDCC) before being sent to the
Government for approval. The PAU and the IPPPT will work in close
cooperation with one another. They will prepare a joint three-year rolling
program on an annual basis incorporating separate work programs for each
unit. The PAU and the IPPPT will also share common services such as
computers and their staff will work jointly in areas of analysis of common
concern.
Terms and Conditions of Service
In order for FMCI to develop a permanent cadre of
technical-professional staff to provide necessary technical and economic
expertise in-house on a continuing basis, the (Nigerian) professional staff
of the PAU and the IPPPT will be employed as NISER appointees with the
corresponding terms and conditions of service.
June 1985



-                      -..                                                        7               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 12756R1
~~~~~~~~i d                     Ko                el ;       s         sz (   g. FA;  " ~   .V .F                                                                 A  'g| 
7XA~T A                                                                   N~,  w~~T s0  G - 
I                   ~~~--.-~~K--
< j, t ' . t;'t, A i\'2Fk '; 2 F ' 24>X < ' \> > >\ j 2tWu 1 l / = / A-ure  \ > /AN 4             t                             rei" 
inF(/  @        - / OKOT                                                        <                                                                C<, -
.1  C                /{vSnuzi  ag  ,) A  i   |U-'SMrS)D   >   %4iA   RiXou   t  j//    n   \        /  9         t         K  :I    XEunl         ODomboo  5 }    (   t <  i     R  2;db
,-~~~~ ~~~ , --' ,,.',N'                              ' r '- <                           'SEf
'1                                                                                                                                     () Ds 5 ze J r/ iNA <9K fX 8 b f < <\Numan ( \ ' ' *\ C HN ;
"                                                   | EAS i                       n  j > r s    ;r    tSE} / PO0~fl~  MAIDUGNRo&: br ; ,-_  un ngg x8 /< ; 1 2/ [;L 7;2JSAr 1ur;Z 1  S  L {i  ;,r i | N Y
ffi J JrX mE u;af \   |   |   X   f_   gg   >   Rf  <  5  _  ff  \  JC  9 Pa n k s h   n   t o t o m   D o t r   <  f<O  A  0  i  ji      i      .     ;>    n     
/j tm                     o           o hed      4r   -    $                             > EA 
Vq-                                                                                   [ X  >     <> pJhrLEB T'cRRITORY 0' KvXlg A 8 X > _J1SX HA '[;t h 3iF:-f:EH E i zf<SUC2:p;" i57:i]:: '2'K
I                                                                                                                        <'t-
K-hC
/         fo
ERRIT  ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    -U            GnKe                                  "A g
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
ATLANrIC                                    '                                                                                 4n~Ad.Elooo k BOoGre
od~~~~~~                                           4~K  vv> 
Li~~~~__ __                                     -'~                                   .                                                                  09 20_4L    rtut    
Al A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M/
ok",                               B.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U






