                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34742

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43530)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.0 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

                                                FOR THE

                            ENTERPRISE INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN




                                           December 19, 2005




Private and Financial Sector Development Department (ECSPF)
Europe and Central Asia Region (ECA)

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective September 2005)

                    Currency Unit = Som
              Official 1145.0 Som = US$ 1

                          FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1    December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CCPB              Case-by-Case Privatization Bureau
EIBB              Enterprise Institution Building Bureau
EIBL              Enterprise Institution Building Loan/Project
GKI               State Property Committee
GOU               Government of Uzbekistan
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA               International Development Agency
IMF               International Monetary Fund
JSC               Joint Stock Company
MOF               Ministry of Finance
PIF               Privatization Investment Fund
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
PPS               Post-Privatization Support
QAG               Quality Assurance Group




                   Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu (ECAVP)
                Country Director       Dennis de Tray (ECCO8)
                  Sector Manager       Gerardo Corrochano (ECSPF)
   Task Team Leader/Task Manager       Gerhard Botha (ECSPF)

                                        UZBEKISTAN
                            Enterprise Institution Building Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Uzbekistan - September 12-16, 2005
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

Project ID: P055159                                                  Project Name: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Team Leader: Gerhard Botha                                           TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Enterprise Institution Building Project                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-43530
   Country/Department: UZBEKISTAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (74%); Central government
                            administration (26%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Legal institutions
                            for a market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/21/1997                                     Effective:                           09/29/1998
     Appraisal: 11/10/1997                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/18/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN/COM; REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN/GKI;
                                           REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN/MOF
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager:                 Fernando Montes-Negret                         Lajos Bokros
Team Leader at ICR:             Gerhard Botha                                  Itzhak Goldberg
ICR Primary Author:             Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HU
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

The Bank's involvement in the Government of Uzbekistan (GOU) privatization program began with the
Institutional Building Technical Assistance Loan (IBTA, launched in 1994). A component of the IBTA
loan was specifically designed to assist the State Privatization Agency and Ministry of Finance to build
capacity to carry out privatization, and helped prepare the Enterprise Institution Building Loan (EIBL)

Privatization was proceeding slowly leading up to the preparation of the EIBL in 1998, though small
enterprises had been privatized by 1995. A number of obstacles were impeding enterprise restructuring,
which included (i) labor collectives and management that continued to hold significant shares of most
enterprises; (ii) industrial associations that still controlled the strategies, inputs and marketing of the state
enterprises and (iii) the Government's dual exchange rate policy, trade barriers and restrictions on cash
withdrawals from the banking system, which discouraged foreign investment.

The GOU's policies also created difficulties in its relationships with the IMF and World Bank. The IMF
and the GOU signed a stand-by program in December 1995, which went off-track in November 1996, when
the GOU introduced multiple currency rates and foreign exchange rationing. As a consequence of these
actions, the Bank-financed Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL) and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)
were placed on hold (1996). The ERL, which was a policy-based loan of $180 million focusing on
privatization, financial discipline and trade liberalization, had already been sent to the Board. ERL's
Board conditions were largely met, but, because of GOU policy reversals on macroeconomic reforms, the
Bank recalled the ERL from Board consideration.

Against this background, the Bank in the 1998-2001 CAS decided to try a different way of engaging the
authorities on key aspects of the reform agenda. The approach was a series of pilot investment operations.
It was thought that these operations would demonstrate the benefits of key structural reforms (i.e.,
agricultural restructuring and privatization), and support institutional development, which would induce the
Government to replicate these changes across the economy. The EIBL became a key component of this
strategy. The loan intended to provide a more gradual and innovative approach to privatization through (i)
Privatization Investment Funds (PIFs), (ii) the initiation of a new case-by-case privatization program for
large strategic enterprises as the cornerstone for further industrial enterprise restructuring; and (iii)
institutional building in the enterprise and financial sector.

Objective

The overall objective of the EIBL was to assist Uzbekistan in its transition to a market economy. Table 1
shows the more detailed, original objectives and corresponding performance indicators, as well as the
revised objectives and performance indicators. The ratings of each development objective are discussed in
detail in Section 4.1.




                                                         - 2 -

TABLE 1: Original and Revised Project Development Objectives

                                           Performance                                                Revised Performance
         Original PDOs                       Indicator            Revised PDOs (April 2004)                  Indicator
(i) Improve efficiency of            Implement 30             Not revised since MTR.                 Implement 20
privatized enterprises               enterprise restructuring                                        Enterprise plans.
                                     plans. MTR reduced                                              (reduced from 30)
                                     target to 20 during in
                                     May 2001, and
                                     restructured the EIBL
                                     to allow for the
                                     privatization of 10
                                     medium enterprises.
(ii) Support the GOU's               7 large scale firms sold Support the GOU's implementation Sale of at least one
implementation of case-by- case to strategic investors.       of case by case privatization to       large scale firm to
privatization to improve             Target was lowered to 5 improve enterprise efficiency and       strategic investors
enterprise efficiency, and attract at the MTR.                attract foreign know-how and capital by the end of the
foreign know-how and capital.                                 through:                               project. (reduced
                                                               a) the preparation for privatization from 7), subsequent
                                                              of at least ten (10) large scale       to the Board
                                                              enterprises; and                       approved
                                                              (b) the sale of at least one (1) large restructuring of the
                                                              scale enterprise.                      EIBL in April
                                                                                                     2004.
(iii) Enhance effectiveness and      Increase share trade on Enhance effectiveness in the            Improved
widen public participation in        stock exchange,          functioning of capital markets by      mechanisms for
capital markets and protect          improve share trade      improving access to and facilitating trade of securities
shareholders                         mechanisms and secure the flow of information on issuers,       through successful
                                     shareholder rights.      turnover, and prices.                  installation of the
                                                                                                     soft- and hardware
                                                                                                     systems as set out
                                                                                                     in the Global
                                                                                                     Architecture
                                                                                                     Design (GAD)
                                                                                                     report dated June
                                                                                                     2003, and the plan
                                                                                                     of Actions (POA)
                                                                                                     dated September
                                                                                                     2003 (both as duly
                                                                                                     amended),
                                                                                                     subsequent to the
                                                                                                     Board approved
                                                                                                     restructuring of the
                                                                                                     EIBL in April
                                                                                                     2004.
(iv) Strengthen Government           Stronger local           Not revised                            Not revised.
institutional capacity to facilitate entrepreneurs and more
enterprise reform.                   foreign investment.


The original and revised objectives were consistent with the CAS. The design was responsive to
Government concerns about the social costs of the transition by using pilot investment operations to test the



                                                            - 3 -

impact of market oriented reforms. The Bank believed that the success of pilot operations, backed by
intensified dialogue and technical assistance to build the capacity for economic management, would
demonstrate the benefits of reforms and allow them to be replicated. With hindsight, there appears to have
been a different understanding as to the breadth of this pilot and its implications for policy. The Borrower's
contribution (Annex 9) reflects the difference of views. Against this background, the project failed to
substantially achieve any of its original objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Because of slow implementation, as reflected in chronically unsatisfactory implementation ratings, the
Bank Board of Directors officially changed the overall objectives/performance targets twice, first in May
2001, after the Mid-Term Review (MTR), and second on April 22, 2004, after the original closing date
(December 31, 2003). After the MTR, adjustments were made to the Component A Post Privatization
Advisory Services (PPAS) to include restructuring of medium scale enterprises. It was clear that the GOU
was no longer supporting the Private Investment Funds (PIFs see Section 4.1). Nonetheless the
performance indicator was only reduced from 30 restructurings to 20 (Table 1). With the second
amendment of objectives, the Board retroactively extended the Capital Market Development (CMD) and
Case-by-Case Privatization (CBCP) components of the EIBL, but left the Post Privatisation Advisory
Services (PPAS) component closed. While objectives i) and iv) (see Table 1) were kept the same,
objectives ii) and iii) were revised. With the closure of the PPAS component, the GOU also requested the
cancellation of substantial unutilized funds (US$17.6 million, or 62.9 percent of the total loan).

3.3 Original Components:
A. Post Privatization Advisory Services ($13.5 million)

The demand for post-privatization advisory services originated with the Privatization Investment Fund
Program (PIF), a unique instrument among CIS countries' mass privatization schemes. The PIF approach
to privatization was chosen by the Government, based on the Government's critical evaluation of
alternative privatization experiences in other transition countries, including in particular the voucher
privatization approach followed by Russia and a number of other CIS countries. The PIF Program was
developed and launched in 1996 under a grant facility of the Bank in cooperation with other donors. The
shares of 600 Joint Stock Companies (JSCs), mainly of medium-scale enterprises, were offered to PIFs
through special auctions. By the end of 1998 there were 59 active PIFs that were allowed to issue their
own shares for public participation at the privatization. A few of the largest PIFs were already active
participants in the stock market and started to become involved in the corporate governance of JSCs. There
was a demand for assistance to restructure the privatized SOEs that sprang out of the PIFs' participation in
the corporate governance of these enterprises.

The post-privatization component was to support enterprise reform by building institutional capacity for
restructuring through a new Enterprise Institution Building Bureau (EIBB). The EIBB would engage
international management consultants who were to provide restructuring services to enterprises in which
PIF's had invested. Through a transfer of skills to the EIBB staff from the international consultants, which
formed part of every management consultant's contract, and through other training interventions, the
capacity in the EIBB and the local consulting industry was to be strengthened. By demonstrating how
enterprises in the PIF portfolio could be effectively restructured, other firms in the PIF's portfolio were to
be encouraged to themselves undertake restructuring, thereby creating demand for the expertise and
benefiting from the capacity created in the EIBB and among local consultants (see Section 4).

B. Case-by-Case Privatization ($9.5 million)




                                                      - 4 -

In 1998, case-by case privatization was still at an early stage, and the GOU was looking for donor
assistance to build up institutional capacity of the State Privatization Committee to handle privatization of
large scale enterprises. The case-by-case privatization component aimed at building this capacity, through
the Case by Case Privatization Bureau (CCPB). In particular, the component financed the involvement of
foreign investment banks who would recommend actions to be taken to prepare SOEs for sale, and at the
same time increase the transparency of the privatization process. Originally the component was expected
to lead to seven privatizations. However, only two sales were completed during the life of the project.

C. Capital Markets Development ($2.4 million)

In 1996 the GOU established the Center for Coordination of the Securities Market (CCSM) in charge of
development of capital markets. The Center needed to build up capacity to supervise securities markets.
The "Tashkent" Republican Stock Exchange, as well as National Depository, "Vaqt" also needed to be
strengthened, which was to be achieved through TA. The CMD component was intended to support the
further development of the CCSM, the Stock Exchange, and the National Depository, and had four
sub-components:

·        securities market regulation and investor protection;
·        assistance in supporting secondary trade in securities;
·        technical upgrade of the national depository; and
·        training.

The CMD component was part of a logical EIBL design in that it would help accommodate additional
enterprise shares that would come on the market with the success of the components A (post privatization
advisory services/PIFs) and B (case-by case privatization).

The remainder of the loan, US$2.6 million was unallocated, for a total loan of US$28 million.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not changed during the project, except for the addition in May 2001
under Part A (post- privatization advisory services), to allow for the privatization of 10 medium
enterprises. However, when the loan was retroactively extended on April 22, 2004, the post-privatization
advisory services component was not included in the amendment of the loan agreement and it closed
unsatisfactory on the original closing date of December 31, 2003.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Moderately unsatisfactory. The design of the EIBL was logical, in that it took the PIF based privatization
program seriously and wanted to provide technical expertise to make it a success. The loan aimed to
invigorate the market for corporate governance and control, and it saw this initially happening under the
government's leadership with advice from foreign experts and over time through the development of a
capital market.

The design also addressed the differences between large scale and medium scale privatization and designed
an appropriately incentivized large scale case by case privatization assistance component. The different
components were complementary, in aiming at improved enterprise management through private owners
(component B), the discipline of an emerging domestic capital market (component C) and through direct
advice on restructuring provided through the EIBB (component A).

However, two issues in retrospect raise concern about the quality of the design:



                                                      - 5 -

First, the Bank underestimated the constraints on successful privatization arising from the business climate,
the slow pace of market oriented reform and the ambiguous commitment of the Government to
privatization. This was likely to depress asset values and thus reduce the attractiveness of privatization for
the Government, an issue which resurfaced during implementation. The design of the EIBL was ambitious
in the context of an already deteriorating policy environment.

Second, the Bank agreed to a state centered model of restructuring, which while well adapted to local
circumstances was always vulnerable to government interference and could be seen as betraying a lack of
fundamental commitment. It is possible that the Government may not have fully understood at the time of
project design that privatization would inevitably entail a release of government control and the move
towards standards of transparency in corporate governance.

Following completion the authorities in their comments to the draft ICR suggested that they disagreed with
some of the design features of the EIBL, such trying to sell majority stakes of state companies to strategic
investors, and asking domestic enterprises to contribute to the cost of restructuring advice. Moreover,
despite the choice of a pilot approach, the authorities felt that the project was still insufficiently adapted to
local conditions. This suggests that doubts over the Government's original commitment to the EIBL are
justified and that agreement to the EIBL conditions was not reflective of fundamental ownership.

While the Bank was aware of the difficult policy environment in which the EIBL would need to be
implemented, the choice to go ahead was born out of the strategic desire to have a dialogue and a foot in the
door on PSD issues. The government clearly showed its desire for such a dialogue at the highest level. In
fact, one reason for underestimating the risks was the GOU's strong and unwavering expression of
commitment to the PIF program, prior to effectiveness and beyond. GOU had been implementing the PIF
program despite the fact that the ERL, under which it was designed, had been put on hold. In a letter to the
Bank President, dated October 22, 1997, President Karimov specifically expressed his support for the PIF
Program. The Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers "On implementing a program of cooperation with the
IBRD" dated October 2, 1997 confirms the requested amount (US$28 million) and objectives of the
project: support of privatized enterprises through PIFs, case by case privatization of large enterprises,
improvement of the depository system and development of the stock exchange.

Against this background it is difficult to see an obvious design alternative. Indeed, the alternative would
have been not to get involved. This was historically not feasible ­ hence the Bank took the risk. In
retrospect, and despite some important achievements, quality at entry must be rated moderately
unsatisfactory for having gone ahead with a project whose major implementation risks it was not in a
position to effectively mitigate.

QAG ­N.A. (see Section 7 for information on QAG at supervision)

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unsatisfactory (overall). Compared with its original objectives, the EIBL was unsatisfactory. At the
original closing date of December 31, 2003, there was an undisbursed balance of US$20.02 million out of
a total loan of US$28.00 million, or 71.5 percent of the total loan. With regard to the revised PDOs (April
2004), which included reduced targets, progress was made but outcomes were still short of performance
targets (moderately unsatisfactory). Overall, therefore, the outcome rating is unsatisfactory. The
assessment is substantiated by objective, below.

TABLE 2: Component Outcome Ratings with Respect to Original and Revised Objectives



                                                      - 6 -

                             ICR                   ICR             ICR Overall
   Component               Original              Revised       (disbursement-wei Final ISR Rating
                          Objectives            Objectives            ghted)
Post Privatization             HU                  MU                   HU                   HU
Case-by-Case                   HU                  MS                    U                   MU
Capital Markets                 U                  MS                    U                   MU
Overall                        HU                  MU                    U                   U



Objective 1: Improve efficiency of privatized enterprises (Component--Post Privatization Advisory
Services) Highly Unsatisfactory (overall)

The Post Privatization Advisory Service component did not satisfactorily meet its objective to support
enterprise reform. The component restructured 9 privatized enterprises compared with an original target of
30 and a revised target of 20 (see revised objective below and Section 4.2). However, the secondary
objective of developing the local consulting industry was achieved during the project as local consultants
demonstrated an ability to analyze companies and devise restructuring plans. The borrower's opinion is
that the EIBL transferred critical skills to local staff that remain valuable. The ICR takes the view that as
long as the business environment remains heavily distorted by government intervention the benefits of this
transfer of skills is difficult to objectively evaluate. Hence it retains the overall highly unsatisfactory rating.

The PPAS component of EIBL fell short of its objectives because of the deteriorating business environment
and withdrawal of GOU support for the PIFs. The PIFs started restructuring enterprises and changing
management in 1998 and as a result increasingly were seen as a threat to GOU agencies that used
administrative methods of control. The PIFs thus met with intense resistance from associations, holding
companies, line ministries and the enterprises themselves. By 1999-2000, after the EIBL was underway,
the GOU began to dilute the shareholdings of PIFs in SOEs and with it reduce their corporate control. The
GOU also chose to reduce the supply of better quality enterprises to be offered to the PIFs. The renewed
centralized distribution of resources (hard currency, local raw materials, centralized credits, etc.) made
enterprise restructuring extremely difficult and greatly reduced incentives to restructure. These difficulties
were compounded by high taxation and low profitability of most privatized firms, who thus had very
limited room for maneuver. In addition, the high cost of consulting services also acted as a constraint to the
implementation of this component. The Loan agreement obligated enterprise recipients of consulting
services to pay 25 percent of the services provided by the international consultants. As most of these
enterprises had difficulties with working capital to begin with, this provision often was not acceptable to
many of them.

Objective 1 "revised": Conduct pre-privatization and privatization of medium scale enterprises.
(Component--Post Privatization Advisory Services) Moderately Unsatisfactory

In consideration of these difficulties the project team agreed with GOU at the Mid-Term Review to revise
the original objective and broaden the coverage of EIBB to deal with privatization of medium scale,
state-owned enterprises. This refocusing from restructuring of the privatized enterprises to
pre-privatization and privatization of enterprises helped improve utilization of EIBB capacity. EIBB
helped restructure 9 public medium scale enterprises. Implementation improved, with increased investment
and a better bottom line for participating enterprises (see Annex 1 and Borrower's Contribution for further
details). In addition, state shares of 8 Joint Stock Companies (JSCs) were sold to private entities. Those
that were restructured clearly benefited in terms of higher investment and improved financial and


                                                         - 7 -

operational management. Another benefit was that the Government, management and shareholders had the
opportunity to learn about their enterprises, in particular, gaining a more realistic view of their value and
competitiveness.

The specific achievements are detailed in the borrower's contribution and only a few of the most salient are
highlighted here. For example, one company, Uzvtortsvetmet, achieved ISO 9000 certification under the
project and subsequently increased export sales by 30 percent following certification. JSC Uzbekkrovla
saved 26 million soum following a change in the input mix, based on the consultant's recommendations. At
JSC TKO Uzbekistan a net loss of 4.88 million Uzbek soum before the restructuring was turned into a
profit of 4.6 million Uzbek sum after the restructuring. At JSC Metalloplastmas sales revenue increased
from 290 to 531 million Uzbek soum following the implementation of the restructuring proposals.

The ICR mission further verified these restructuring benefits in field visits to Uzbekhimmash and
Uzvtortsvetmet. The field visits included interviews with company management and walk-throughs of the
factories. Improvements to the factories were significant with key equipment components purchased, and,
apparently, better maintenance of the facility than before inputs from the PPAS.

This component was not closed at MTR as there were 9 restructuring of enterprises ongoing. Also, at
MTR, medium enterprise privatization was included as a future activity into this component. It was
foreseen that the privatization of medium enterprises would constitute the main activity in future, and that
the remaining funds would largely be used for that activity. Despite the improvements in implementation
following the MTR, even the revised objectives were not achieved and the EIBL did not succeed through
this component to demonstrate and thereby catalyze market oriented restructuring in the domestic industrial
sector on a broad scale as had been originally intended. The revised objective is thus rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

Objective 2: Support the GOU's implementation of case-by- case privatization to improve enterprise
efficiency, and attract foreign know-how and capital. (Component--Case by Case Privatization,
Unsatisfactory (overall)

The Case-by-Case Privatization (CCP) component made progress in building capacity to value and prepare
large and complex enterprises for privatization. This capacity has to a significant extent been transferred to
the CCPB and to local consultants working with the international advisors. However, of the original seven
targeted privatizations, only two actually took place (which met the reduced target in the revised objectives
of the project--see below). Of the other 10 companies to be prepared for privatization, all ten were in
advanced stages of the pre-privatization process at project close. Nonetheless, the privatization process in
Uzbekistan remains slow and haphazard compared to other transition economies and the EIBL apparently
did not succeed to launching and supporting a broad based large scale privatization effort.

This and the small number of actual privatizations warrant an unsatisfactory rating even if the revised
PDOs were eventually achieved. The Medium-Term Review for the project suggested scaling down the
performance indicators for this component, but at the insistence of the Government they were maintained.
This decision is evaluated further under Bank and Borrower performance.

Despite the slow progress with actual sales, the EIBL contributed to raising government awareness of the
need for substantial policy reform to privatize SOEs. At the start of the project, for instance, the concept of
an international tender was still quite alien to policy makers, and the authorities had no idea how to value
their assets realistically. Under the CCP, international advisors were retained to assess the reform
challenges in major sectors of the economy and make recommendations to improve their competitiveness


                                                       - 8 -

and thus attractiveness for outside investors. Many of the consultants' recommendations were taken up in
laws and decrees, which helped improve the environment for privatization (see under 4.2 below). The
highly unsatisfactory assessment of this component overall reflects the failure to move beyond this
preparatory phase over a seven year period, despite the clear intention to support implementation of large
scale privatization and not just its preparation.

Objective 2 "revised": Support the Borrower's implementation of case by case privatization to
improve enterprise efficiency and attract foreign know-how and capital through a) the preparation
for privatization of at least ten (10) large scale enterprises; and (b) the sale of at least one (1) large
scale enterprise. Moderately Satisfactory.

This component met and exceeded its revised numerical privatization objective by carrying out the
privatization of 2 companies. It also made sufficient progress in 10 other enterprises to warrant a
moderately satisfactory rating (see also Annex 1). For an unqualified satisfactory rating, the ICR would
have expected a much clearer sense that more sales are imminent.

Objective 3: Enhance effectiveness and widen public participation in capital markets and protect
shareholders (Component--Capital Markets Development) Unsatisfactory (overall)

Though the original intent of the CMD component was to support the further development of the Securities
Center, the Stock Exchange, and the National Depository, the capital market in Uzbekistan remains
rudimentary. A recent EBRD assessment of Uzbekistan's formal regulatory framework ("Assessing
corporate governance and securities market legislation in Early Transition Countries by Gian Piero Cigna,
Counsel, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, January 2005"), finds that Uzbekistan
compares reasonably well with other early transition countries, although it lags significantly behind most
other countries in the region. New legislation has been prepared but not yet introduced to parliament. While
share issues and turnover have been increasing (see 4.2), they remain well below comparator markets such
as Kazakhstan, Ukraine or Russia. In the context of the EIBL, assistance in supporting secondary trade in
securities became much less relevant because anticipated privatizations did not take place that would have
increased the supply of securities to the market. However, following the restructuring of the EIBL, the
national depository was upgraded and a computer system for securities was installed (see next paragraph).

Objective 3 "revised": Enhance effectiveness in the functioning of capital markets by improving
access to and facilitating the flow of information on issuers, turnover, and prices. Moderately
Satisfactory

At the strong insistence of the GOU, the CMD component was significantly scaled down to include only a
computer system for capital markets. The scaled down objective reflected the weak policy environment in
Uzbekistan. This system has been installed which has created the capacity to improve information on
securities. Because the installation was carried out only recently, the outcome has not yet been measured.

While this measure was implemented, the larger question is whether it will produce an outcome to justify
the approximately US$800,000 expenditure. Currently, the securities market in Uzbekistan is comprised of
the shares of 429 companies and processes an average of only 96 transactions weekly. It is uncertain
whether the volume of transactions will grow sufficiently rapidly to justify this computer system during its
useful life.

Objective 4 - Strengthen Government institutional capacity to facilitate enterprise reform Moderately
Unsatisfactory.


                                                     - 9 -

The breadth of the restructuring activities, particularly under the CCP, demonstrates that the Bank and its
reform minded counterparts in Government wanted to use the EIBL as a broader plank for the dialogue on
structural reforms and on private sector development. EIBL was the instrument for a continuous and
ultimately futile push to get the Government to embrace more market oriented policies. Yet, at the technical
level, this push produced important results and created capacity that will remain available should the
government decide to change its mind. Thus the CCPB continues to remain in operation and is in charge of
carrying out the Government's more recent privatization programs. While none of the underlying obstacles
to successful privatization ­ extensive state interference in the economy, a weak business climate and
unrealistic price expectations from the Government ­ have dramatically changed, there is a better
understanding of these constraints and thus the basis for adjusting policy should there be a corresponding
signal from the highest authorities. Hence this objective is rated only moderately unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Post Privatization Advisory Services (Highly Unsatisfactory). As stated above, the PPAS component
failed to meet its targets of restructuring enterprises whose shares were held by PIFs. The PPAS
successfully supported the restructuring of 9 enterprises instead of the original 30. Despite of the
restructuring of the component to support the privatization of medium scale enterprises, it failed to achieve
significant outputs largely as a result of Government bureaucracy (it took more that a year to approve the
TOR). Eventually the Government then decided not to go ahead with medium enterprise privatization and
remaining amounts under this component were cancelled. The entity created for the PPAS (and CMD)
components, the EIBB, carried out the restructured components. However, its sustainability beyond the
EIBL is uncertain at best. Annex Table 1 contains details the outputs of the PPAS component and other
components of the EIBL. For actual achievements and improvements in enterprise performance, see the
examples mentioned in par. 4.1 above and also in the Borrowers contribution.

Case by Case Privatization (Moderately Unsatisfactory). This component assisted the large scale
privatization process. At project close, two enterprises had been privatized and 10 enterprises were in the
process of privatization. The two transactions completed were: the sale of 64 percent shares of Uzcable
and 25 percent of shares of Ohangaroncement to foreign investors. Total sales netted US $15m in cash and
US $20m in investment obligations for the Government, more than the total amount ultimately committed
under the EIBL. The authorities have highlighted this as a major achievement of the loan, and at the same
time expressed the view that the financial consultants sometimes seemed insufficiently interested in
maximizing sales revenues. Indeed, there may sometimes be a trade-off between privatizing quickly and
maximizing revenues, which complicate an assessment of the output of this component. Overall, however,
the EIBL was clearly targeted at achieving actual sales in order to introduce private ownership and
management into Uzbekistan's business sector. This it did not achieve to a satisfactory extent.

It is important to recognize that, although this component did not meet its targets, considerable sectoral
diagnostic work was done by the 18 international financial advisors involved in this component, in
conjunction with preparing enterprises for privatization. Indeed, the CCP component achieved the most
significant progress in the following areas:

·        The Commerzbank consultancy developed the privatization strategy for Uzbektelecom (a
monopoly). The involvement of the Commerzbank expedited separation of a licensing government agency
from a state-owned-operator company, and this boosted development of the telecommunication sector.
Commerzbank recommendations led to the consolidation of telecom entities, and the issuance of 2 laws, 5
decrees and 7 resolutions. Amongst the most important of these measures was the Telecommunciation Law
(August 20, 1999), in which tariffs were liberalized and the role and functions of the regulatory agency


                                                      - 10 -

were identified. The number of joint venture cellular companies and telecommunication companies as well
as investments also increased and cellular traffic has recently exceeded land line traffic.

·       Uzbekenergo (a monopoly), in cooperation with CCPB and sector experts from the World Bank,
took major steps toward restructuring and pre-privatization reform of the power sector. The government
decision to de-monopolize the energy sector and to separate the power generation companies from
electro-energy distributors was issued following the consultant's recommendations.

·       Uzbekneftegas (a monopoly) under the assistance of BNP Paribas, following an extensive
diagnostic of the sector, started reorganizing the exploration, refinery, transportation and distribution
companies into independent legal entities that might better attract foreign investors. The later was
accomplished with GOU Resolution #460 (October 21, 2003).

·       The CCPB was involved in preparation for privatization of the largest companies of the country
such as the Tashkent Aircraft Factory, Uzbek Railways, Uzmetcombinat (metallurgical company), the
chemical industry, cement companies and several mining companies.

Looking ahead, this diagnostic work has laid the basis for future privatization of key strategic industries
and this is reflected in the Government's privatization program for 2004 and 2005. However, the
Government will continue to find it difficult to mobilize reputable strategic investors to come to Uzbekistan
as long as it retains its extensive intervention in the economy, thereby creating adverse investment
conditions, and depressing the value of the assets offered for sale. Indeed, unless the business climate
improves, rapid fire sales of major state assets may not be advisable at this stage.

Capital Markets Development (Moderately Unsatisfactory). The capital market in Uzbekistan is at the
early stages of development which is not surprising in view of the fact that the banking sector is not yet
functioning on an effective basis due to excessive control and the dominant position of the state banks
especially the National Bank of Uzbekistan. Between 2000 and 2005, the shares on the secondary market
have increased from about 1,000 to 60,000 and turnover has been increasing. Yet, at around US$ 150
million it represents just over 1% of GDP. Though the level of trading is quite low, Uzbekistan has
established most of the structures for an effective capital market. The Tashkent stock exchange has been in
operation for 10 years and there are in excess of 100 licensed brokers as well as a securities depository and
settlement clearing system.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest

As noted under objective 4 of the project, the EIBL was more than a simple privatization assistance project.
It aimed to keep the dialogue going with the Government on Private Sector Development issues and in this
regard achieved some success at a technical level. Managers of SOEs who received advice under the PPAS
are now more aware of the factors driving their businesses' success. The CPB is thoroughly trained in
enterprise valuation and continues to advise the Government in the implementation of its privatization
program. Local consultants have been exposed to international methods of enterprise valuations, the



                                                       - 11 -

development of restructuring and marketing strategies and the analysis of regulatory issues involved in the
privatization of strategic industries with public or network good properties. These are institutional
achievements which remain in the increased capacity of the individuals associated with the project.

In the end, however, these individuals and the institutions they represent held and continue to hold little
sway over government policy, which remains highly centralized. The EIBL did not achieve a breakthrough
in the dialogue on economic reforms and PSD at the highest levels of Government. Hence the sustainability
of its efforts to build capacity remains in doubt and the institutional development impact should be rated
modest. In the end, the EIBL was designed to address a capacity deficit ­which it arguably discharged with
some effectiveness. But the key constraint to progress was lack of political will, which the EIBL was
neither designed to nor the Bank as a whole able to successfully confront.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The EIBL was designed during a phase of heightened uncertainty over the future course of economic
policy. The temporary halt in the reform process in 1996 and 1997 turned into a change in direction with
the rapid decline in cotton prices during 1999 and 2000, which dramatically increased the Government's
sense of insecurity and its instincts to reassert direct control over the economy. While the policy reaction
was of course a matter of choice, the external shock was real and may explain why political commitment to
the EIBL declined so soon after its approval.

The Government reported surprise at the lack of interest in their companies and the low offers. The Aides
Memoir, however, show that the Bank repeatedly discussed the reasons for the lack of investor interest with
the Government, and encouraged the Government to adopt policies that would counter-balance some of the
negative external factors and improve Uzbekistan's attractiveness for investors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Following the sharp fall in cotton prices in 1999 and 2000, the Government started to take control away
from the PIFs so that it could control companies' decisions about what and how much to import. By
controlling imports and by reestablishing control over companies the Government sought to ease the foreign
exchange crisis. This decision undermined the PIFs and the basis for the PPAS, the largest component of
the project.

Project implementation was further complicated by the deterioration of the overall macroeconomic
environment. During 1998-2001 the GOU undertook a number of actions regarding convertibility, private
business environment, sectoral associations, corporate governance of the enterprises etc. that indirectly
undermined both privatization of enterprises and restructuring. Another factor was that the GOU decided
not to renew the resident advisor, which also to a certain extent set back implementation. However, it
should be noted, at that time international investment banks (procured under the EIBL), already were
advising all the enterprises in the privatization pipeline. A number of other GOU policy decisions
undermined EIBL (see Section 7).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
No specific factors.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total original project costs were US$47.7 million with planned Bank financing of US$28.0 million.
After cancellation of US$17.6 million in April 2004, actual IBRD disbursements were US$9.2 million.
The funds were lent at standard IBRD terms with 5 years of grace, maturity of 20 years, a commitment fee



                                                       - 12 -

of 0.75 percent of the outstanding loan amount and no service charge.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The ICR rates the sustainability of EIBL achievements as unlikely because of the continuing ambiguous
commitment of the GOU to privatization. While the case-by-case privatization and capital markets
development components may have lasting impact as additional enterprises move through the
pre-privatization steps and the recently installed computer system at the stock exchange becomes
operational, this impact is likely to remain marginal to the privatization process and PSD in Uzbekistan
overall. The authorities have stressed in their contribution that they intend to continue to pursue
privatization and that the process has recently accelerated. They point to the fact that the CCPB has to date
prepared 54 companies for privatization against 18 during the life of the project, that the tender commission
has issued tenders for a total of 38 large scale objects and that privatization revenues have been increasing
in 2004 and 2005 over previous years. Indeed, in their view, the EIBL simply came too early. This ICR
suggests that while the Government's privatization plans are ambitious, they will face significant obstacles
in attracting strategic investors because of the weak business climate and unrealistic price expectations.
Indeed, the risk is that against these constraints, Uzbekistan may sell state assets in non-transparent ways
to insiders, or ­ perhaps more likely ­ that the privatization of major state assets will continue to effectively
stall.

The outcome of the CMD computer system is also uncertain. This outcome hinges on an improved
environment for PSD and the actual development of the capital market, with an increased supply of
corporate shares that can be traded. Government plans foresee the issue of shares of 279 further
companies on the stock exchange as part of the privatization program. The accomplishments under the
PPAS component as originally envisioned are clearly not sustainable because they were not carried out.
The revised PPAS component that carried out a number of medium scale enterprise restructurings does
appear likely to be sustained because of improved bottom lines in each of the enterprises.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Two areas of action are critical, as alluded to above: continued follow-through on the privatizations and
operationalizing the CMD computer system. The general policy environment also needs to improve to
better support PSD and corporate governance. There are currently no further PSD or CMD related
operations planned by the Bank. Such operations would be warranted only if GOU intensifies its
commitment to private sector led growth.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Moderately Satisfactory

The design of EIBL followed a conscious management decision to try and leverage privatization through a
technical assistance instrument, where more traditional instruments including adjustment lending had failed.
The Bank team responded to this mandate with imagination and with a coherently designed concept,
although it must have known that by relying so heavily on government led institutions both to restructure
already privatized entities and to prepare strategic enterprises for sale it was taking significant
implementation risks. Given the difficulties of finding a tailor-made design that was adapted to the
circumstances of a hesitant and difficult borrower, the large costs of lending (US$700,000 with US$



                                                     - 13 -

300,000 obtained from trust funds) were perhaps justified.

The greatest question regarding Bank performance at lending concerns its assessment of the extent of
government ownership. While the Government expressed its commitment to the EIBL objectives at the
highest level and agreed with its design, the authorities have expressed their disagreement with aspects of
project design in their comments on this ICR. Even if these were not raised explicitly at the time, the fact
that privatization faced significant domestic resistance was clear to the Bank during preparation. With
hindsight, however, it would appear that a more in depth political economy analysis, uncovering points of
resistance and developing specific strategies to deal with these obstacles might have been warranted.

7.2 Supervision:
Moderately Unsatisfactory

Two possible directions for the EIBL. EIBL supervision posed pivotal managerial choices that could
have produced very different results. It was clear early in the project, and certainly by the May 2001
MTR, that the CCBP and the PPAS were not going to produce the planned outcomes. The Bank had the
option at that point of greatly scaling down the project to a level that had a greater chance of full
implementation or canceling it completely. Instead, management, with the advice of the task team at the
strong request of the Government and upon the Government's renewed commitment to effectively
implement the project, as reflected in the loan amendment request letter dated 8 May 2001, decided to keep
the project mostly intact, with limited restructuring. The strategy was to hold the Government to the higher
standard of the original objectives, against which implementation continued to be rated unsatisfactory.
Although the EIBL would likely continue to be rated unsatisfactory, the Government would, so the
reasoning went, be pushed, ultimately, to achieve more.

The other route, canceling or drastically scaling down early on, would have had the advantage of
communicating the message that the Bank expected the terms of a negotiated loan to be adhered to, and that
major deficiencies in implementation would result in cancellation of the activity. A credible threat of
cancellation, might also have spurred the counterparts in the EIBB and the CCPB but also in central
government ministries to redouble their efforts in order to avoid the embarrassment of a failed project. The
key to the Bank's decision to continue was the desire to keep a foot in the door on PSD issues, the very
reason the EIBL was designed in the first place. The Bank was consistent in maintaining engagement in the
face of increasing evidence that the project lacked the necessary government support. With hindsight this
was a mistake, but it is understandable in the context prevailing at the time and was a risk taken
consciously by the team, Bank management at the Board of Directors, which agreed to the restructured
PPAS component.

Post Mid-Term Review and First Project Extension. A deteriorating policy environment made Bank
supervision difficult, necessitating additional supervision costs. Economic reform in Uzbekistan had stalled
while the lack of convertibility of the Soum remained an obstacle to opening up the economy to market
forces and encouraging private sector development. According to the 2002 assessment of the Quality
Assurance Group the Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory overall despite the difficult policy
environment.

Following the MTR, the project also continued to suffer from slow decision making within the GOU related
to contract awards and payments to consultants. Given these difficulties, the Bank had to closely supervise
each activity and help guide the process so that the many (up to 14) approvals required in the GOU
bureaucracy were secured. The Bank issued no objections promptly so as not to slow the process further.
Nevertheless, as the original project closing date (December 2003) approached, the PDO and IP ratings, as



                                                     - 14 -

well as performance under all three components were rated unsatisfactory.

The Bank decided to grant the first extension in order to complete the work related to case-by-case
privatization and capital market components. The project development objectives and the key performance
indicators were revised accordingly. This decision was appropriate because there was continuing progress
in preparation for privatization with over a dozen companies participating. The PPAS component (A) was
not extended and closed with an unsatisfactory rating. The loan amount was reduced from the original
US$28 million to US$10.3 million. This was an appropriate if somewhat belated decision as the GOU at
its own choice had been paying significant commitment fees on funds it apparently had no intention to use.

Extension of the Capital Market Development Component. There was a strong argument not to go
forward with the CMD computer system. The number of actual privatizations was well short of what was
envisioned. Thus, there the increase in shares and trading would be small, perhaps too small to warrant the
CMD computer system. The feasibility study for the computer system had been completed, but the other
components were not feeding in new shares. It is arguable that it was premature to go forward with such a
system that would have little impact on private sector development. In terms of sunk costs, it was not
necessary to go through with the CMD component as only $50,000 had been spent on feasibility, while
another US$800,000 would be required to install the system. However, the GOU strongly lobbied the
Bank to continue with the component as described in the completed feasibility study. In the interest of not
damaging the country relationship, the Bank supported the implementation of the system. Given the small
amount involved and the possibility that the CMD component may yet achieve some positive impact, this
was a reasonable decision.

Overall, following the MTR the task team made significant efforts to continue to push for implementation
progress, in line with the mandate it received from management. Supervision effort was very costly
(US$1.3 million or well above 10 percent of commitments) but necessary to maintain constructive relations
with the client and ensure the delivery of those outputs that were achieved (in particular under the CPB
component). Nevertheless, given the repeated failure to reach the PDOs and constant delays in reaching
project output milestones, the Bank should have paused for thought earlier and considered cancellation. In
an environment where evidently political will rather than lack of capacity is the key constraint to making
progress on reform, it is questionable whether the continued and costly implementation of a technical
assistance loan was really the appropriate instrument (see lessons learned). The task team's approach to
keep the PDO ratings at satisfactory in order to establish stretch goals for the Government to meet was
risky and ultimately failed to deliver. Indeed, an earlier downgrade might have signaled the Bank's concern
more clearly and thus provided a basis for earlier cancellation of the EIBL without risking country
relations. Despite strong and constructive efforts by the Bank team, overall Bank performance during
supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank acted competently and diligently throughout the project life. As the aide-memoires reveal, the
Bank was honest and direct in addressing implementation problems although it lacked realism in assessing
the likelihood that the PDOs would be achieved. Day to day management of the project was active and
achieved a good level of dialogue. The assessment of overall Bank performance in this ICR rests rather on
the distinct choices made at the four decision points set out in Table 3.




                                                     - 15 -

TABLE 3: Four Key Decision Points for Bank Management

                    Decision Point                   Result
 Lending: 1997-98, whether to go forward with the Bank management decided to go ahead with project,
 project at all, especially one with an ambitious    reasoning that it was could keep the policy dialog
 design, in light of the aborted ERL and other       open. Project design was challenging aiming at 7
 warning signs                                       large privatizations and 30 privatizations through
                                                     PIFs.

 May 2001 (the MTR)--Whether to more radically       Bank management decided to make adjustments to
 restructure earlier in the project life when        the project components, but at the request of the
 performance had been rated unsatisfactory for       Government not to cancel the components. In respect
 several supervisions                                to the restructured PPAS component, the TOR to
                                                     initiate medium enterprise restructuring then took one
                                                     year to process because of slow operation of Uzbek
                                                     bureaucracy. The Government then took a decision
                                                     not to proceed with this activity. However, early
                                                     cancellation of this component then became moot, as
                                                     only 6 months of project life was left. This
                                                     component was not extended.

 April 2004--Whether to extend the project one year 10 case-by case privatizations were in progress. The
 to accommodate the implementation of the CCP        government requested for the loan to be extended in
 component when the potential value of the           order to complete these transactions, at various stages
 component was questionable.                         of implementation. Also, the implementation of the
                                                     restructured CMD component was ongoing. A
                                                     decision was taken by Bank management to extend.

 November 2004--Whether to extend the project to Again, the government strongly requested the Bank to
 accommodate the implementation of the CMD           extend the loan for 6 months in order to complete the
 component when the potential value of the           installation of the computer and network system.
 component was questionable.                         The Bank agreed to this request and the system was
                                                     fully installed.


In all four cases, the Bank opted for continued engagement with the Government. As argued above, given
the significant resources invested in this dialogue, the outcomes were disappointing, and the decision to
keep going even in the face of limited progress is questionable. However, it reflected the strong managerial
decision and wish to have at least a basic dialogue on PSD issues, and the equally strong desire of the client
to continue the relationship in this area. The task team tried its best to implement the mandate received
from both sides. Yet despite the strong mandate, the result of the dialogue was disappointing and on this
basis, given that the Bank had the choice to end it earlier, overall performance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory .

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Moderately Unsatisfactory

GOU did contribute to preparation of the project, which, in part, grew out of the IBTA. The Borrower's
commitment appeared strong during the preparation stage; a high level official (the Deputy Prime Minister)
championed the project and the project had good support at the technical level. The Borrower also



                                                      - 16 -

supported the design of the EIBL, which included support for the PIFs, a selection of companies to be
privatized and an expansion of the securities market and its infrastructure.

In retrospect, however, GOU support broke down to such a degree in key areas of the project, that the
question arose as to why the GOU agreed to the original design of the EIBL in the first place. GOU
appeared not to want to lose control of the companies. Two reasons may account for the breakdown in
Government support:

·        The lack of breadth of ownership during design. A key obstacle certainly was the resistance of
industrial associations and SOE managers themselves which a TA operation was ill-suited to overcome.

·        A lack of real understanding of the ultimate consequences of implementing EIBL. The pilot
approach was born out of political necessity, as key sensitive issues were simply delayed to a future date.
When confronted with these issues during EIBL implementation nonetheless, Government commitment
quickly waned. Ultimately thus EIBL lacked real political leadership.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory

Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory, particularly with respect to the original
objectives. The GOU did initially offer support to the EIBL and continuously reassured the Bank that
although implementation lagged, the GOU fully intended to meet the original goals of the project. The
GOU often responded favorably to the consultants' recommendations to restructure companies and issued
decrees to support sectoral reform. However, there were simply too many measures that ran counter to
EIBL objectives as detailed below.

Unsupportive policies. The key GOU policies that ran counter to successful privatization included:

·        GOU's insistence on offering only minority shares of companies, usually 25-33 percent. At the
same time, the market was requiring at least a majority and often a super majority of 76 percent, in part,
because foreign investors wanted to reduce GOU interference in enterprise operations. The authorities in
their comments to this ICR have suggested that they always favored a more gradual approach of initially
providing minority stakes to investors who could then increase their shareholdings if the mutual experience
was successful. Whatever the merits of such a strategy, it was inconsistent with the spirit of case by case
privatization as reflected in the project documentation at appraisal, and if it was Government policy at the
time, this should have been made clear.

·        Lack of currency convertibility, which discouraged foreign investment.

·        The GOU had an exaggerated view of the worth of Uzbek companies and was reluctant to accept
realistic estimates of the companies' worth. The authorities have emphasized in their comments the
inconsistency between the practices and suggestions of the foreign investment advisors with complex local
regulations. This clearly presented a problem for officials caught between domestic regulations and foreign
advice. However, the foreign advice was based on best international practice. If the authorities had not
intended to follow such practice, they should not have agreed to the EIBL.

·        GOU offered only lower quality enterprises to the PIFs, ensuring the PIFs failure. The
Government also failed to improve the legal environment for PIFs as envisaged at appraisal and pressed for



                                                    - 17 -

by the team during implementation. As mentioned in section 4.1, the GOU also undermined PIFs
ownership of companies through a contrived asset revaluation scheme.

·       The continuing operation of industrial associations and holding companies and their interference in
and mismanagement of enterprises.

Inconsistent implementation. The GOU's unpredictable implementation of its own privatization policy
and excessive internal approval procedures for key decisions disrupted successful privatization. The GOU
substantially revised its privatization policy multiple times and changed its priorities. For instance, the new
Council of Ministers (COM) resolution #511 on privatization, issued on December 1999, and replacing
resolution #477, revised the list of the enterprises to be privatized. GOU simultaneously established new
procedures for large-scale SOE privatization and delegated decision making authority to the new State
Tender Committee under the COM. Heavy turnover during initial project implementation at the GKI as
well as the EIBB and CCPB also contributed to implementation problems. Further, the excessive approval
procedures were a major handicap to project implementation particularly because the project was so
heavily based on transactions and consulting contracts.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Moderately Satisfactory

The GKI, CCPB and EIBB made good efforts under extremely difficult conditions and did try to implement
the project to the extent that they were allowed to by the Government. They also were able to absorb
knowledge of investment analysis and valuation. And their performances improved during the course of the
project as staff turnover subsided. The CCBP has even continued to operate to prepare enterprises for
privatization and prepare tenders after EIBL support has ended. This continuity is to a large part due to
having had the same Director General since 2001. The State Tender Committee, however, did not work
well. Too many approvals were required for action (14) and the STC often did not have successful tenders
and sometimes disqualified lone bids. While the international and local consultants were on the whole able
to work effectively with the Implementing Agencies, cooperation could at times have been better. Another
complicating factor not directly under the Government's control was that given Uzbekistan's reputation as
a difficult place to do business, it was sometimes hard to attract the best quality consultants to work under
the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory

The failure to achieve the PDOs performance targets and the cancellation of 67.1 percent of the loan are
traceable directly to the Government's decision to withdraw support for major activities of the EIBL.
Though Borrower lending performance was only moderately unsatisfactory and IA performance was
moderately satisfactory, the Government's commitment to the EIBL in key areas (especially the largest
component of the project, the PPAS) was lacking. Borrower performance must be considered
unsatisfactory overall.

8. Lessons Learned

l Lack of government ownership undermines the effectiveness of even the best intentioned and
    designed operation. The Bank responded with imagination and flexibility to the local context and
    designed an operation that was meant to generate ownership by opting for a cautious, pilot approach.
    In the event, the fundamental commitment of the Government to even cautious steps was lacking. A



                                                      - 18 -

    deeper stakeholder analysis to identify the extent of ownership across different groups within the
    country might have helped to highlight these risks earlier and should be considered for future
    operations in similarly uncertain environments.

l While risk taking during design should be encouraged, the Bank should not hesitate to draw back
    if an innovation fails. The EIBL and its support for the PIFs was innovative and tailor-made. Having
    seen this approach fail after 2 years of implementation, the Bank did not cancel the loan, in order to
    maintain the dialogue. This made for an expensive and ultimately less than effective approach. In risky
    environments, a more flexible response might be called for.

l Technical Assistance is an expensive vehicle for policy dialogue when lack of political will rather
    than capacity is the key constraint on reform. The EIBL was explicitly designed as an instrument to
    keep the dialogue on reform going. For what it achieved it was expensive both for the Government and
    for the Bank (in terms of staff resources). Lacking the additional leverage of adjustment lending or a
    high level policy dialogue beyond the project team, the Bank might have been more realistic in its
    assessment of likely success.

l There is a need, however, to reconsider how to best deliver technical assistance in environments
    such as Uzbekistan. A recent QAG report concludes that the Bank's AAA work was well intentioned
    and designed but lacked relevance and impact, in ways that are not dissimilar to the assessment of this
    ICR. The Bank has yet to find an effective tool to advocate for policy reforms in a reluctant
    environment like Uzbekistan.

l In the context of uncertain or limited Government ownership, reluctance of the Borrower to
    restructure may reflect concern over internal reprisals rather than continued ownership and
    drive to deliver. The Borrower insisted to keep the PDOs unaltered at MTR and pleaded for two
    extensions to complete work, the impact of which remains at least uncertain. It is likely that this
    reflected the fear that the Implementing Agencies and their management (even at more senior levels),
    might be held responsible for failed implementation. The Bank has the responsibility in such cases to
    make clear if it believes the PDOs can no longer be achieved, in spite of high level Government
    assurances, since the day of reckoning will come sooner or later. Confronting the Borrower with hard
    truths may not necessarily be bad for country relations. See above.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contribution is detailed and comprehensive and is presented in Annex 9 to this ICR. In
addition a number of comments were received on the draft ICR which are to some extent reflected in the
text. For ease of reference these comments are summarized below.

l On design - The EIBL was designed too early, against the background of a government that had not yet
    fully decided in which direction its privatization policy was going. The government agrees that
    implementation suffered from the shift in policy that took place shortly after the launch of the EIBL,
    which it attributes to exogenous shocks.

l Ownership ­ The authorities have confirmed that there was lack of support for this project at the
    enterprise level and by the industrial associations. The authorities also stated that some of the EIBL's
    design features and specific performance indicators were formulated against the Government's advice
    and request. However, the authorities expressed their consent in signing the loan agreement.

l On Bank performance ­ The borrower has commented that the Bank's procurement procedures on
    occasion were slow and bureaucratic. There was also a perception that the investment advisors were



                                                     - 19 -

    not doing a good job, in that they seemed more interested with the process than with getting a result, or
    seemed all too ready to agree to fire sales at knock-down prices. It was felt that the success fee model
    did not work as it did not provide the advisors with sufficient incentives to deliver maximum outcomes
    for Uzbekistan. The authorities would have wanted the Bank to show more understanding for local
    circumstances and advise the international investment advisors accordingly to be flexible.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

TABLE 3: Timeline of Major Milestones for the EIBL
     Date                                                  Event
   06/18/1998    Board Approval
   09/29/1998    Effectiveness
   05/08/2001    Letter from Ministry of Finance requesting the introduction of several amendments to the
                 loan agreement
   05/19/2001    Completion of Mid-Term Review mission. Performance indicators i) and ii) (from Table
                 1) are amended and scaled down
   12/31/2003    Original closing date. Letter from the GOU requesting the EIBL's extension by one year
                 and the cancellation of US $17.6 million. Post Privatization Advisory Services
                 component closes.
   04/22/2004    The WB Board approves the EIBL's retroactive extension of remaining two components
                 by one year, cancels US$17.6 million.
   12/22/2004    Capital Market Development Component is extended until June 30, 2005
   12/31/2004    Case by Case Privatization Component closes.
    6/30/2005    Final revised closing date of the EIBL remaining component (CMD)
Sources: Project files




                                                      - 20 -

TABLE 4: Summary of Project Ratings from Project Status Reports 1999-2005
                                  Project             Post    Case by  Capital
     PSR Date   PDOs   Implem.    Mgmt.     M&E     Privatiz.  Case    Markets
1.   4-27-1999   HS        S         S       NR        S        S        S
2.  12-22-1999   S         S         S       NR        S        S        S
3.   5-12-2000   S         U         S       NR        U        U        S
4.   12-5-2000   S         U         S       NR        U        U        S
5.   6-26-2001   S         U         S       S         U        U        S
6.  12-21-2001   S         U         S       S         U        U        S
7.   3-01-2002   S         U         S       S         U        U        S
8.  10-30-2002   S         U         S       S         S        U        S
9.   2-10-2003   S         U         S       S         S        U        S
10.  6-19-2003   S         U         S       S         U        U        S
11. 12-08-2003   S         U         S       S         U        U        S
12. 12-31-2003   U         U         S       S         U        U        U
13.  6-22-2004   U         U         S       S         U        S        U
14. 11-01-2004   U         U         S       S         U        S        U
15. 12-23-2004   S         S         S       S         U        S        S
16.  6-05-2005   U        MU         S       S        HU        MU      MU




                                      - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


       Compnent/Company                                             Output
Post Privatization Advisory
Services-Component A

1. JSC "Uzbekkrovlya"          The international consultant, KPMG Uzbekistan Ltd, recommended ways to
                               optimize the production process and services of logistics of the enterprise.

2. JSC "TKO Uzbekistan"        The diagnostic investigation of the enterprise made by EIBB defined the main
                               directions of the restructuring plan for the enterprise.

3. JSC "Sankurta'mirlash"      The enterprise diversified its portfolio by regulating the production of fire proof
                               bricks, imitations and pavement plats. In order to produce new products, the
                               equipment on production of imitations with capacity of 200 thousand per a year
                               and pavement plates with capacity of 600 sq.m. per a year has been installed.

4. JSC "Metalloplastmass"      EIBB carried out the diagnostic investigation of the enterprise, and worked out
                               the restructuring plan with an international consultant.

                               The consultant carried out the analysis and gave recommendations on
                               optimization of current industrial and financial system of management and
                               development of raw supply and control of raw materials utilization. As a result
                               of implementation of recommendations at the enterprise the sales revenue
                               increased from 290 up to 531 mln. UZS.

5. JSC "Plant Uzbekhimmash"    JSC "Plant Uzbekhimmash" was certifiedin compliance with requirements of
                               international system of ISO quality standard 9001:2000.

                               The consultant LLC "The Ural Inter-regional Certification Centre" has carried
                               out: (i) evaluation audit of current quality system of the plant; (ii) actions on
                               preparation of management system of quality, training of the personnel of the
                               plant and preparation of all necessary documentation for certification according
                               to the standards of ISO 9001:2000.

6. JSC "Uzvtorcvetmet"         The consultant evaluated financial activity of JSC "Uzvtorcvetmet" which
                               included analysis of financial condition of the company and production
                               expenditures. The technical and economic substantiations of modernization of
                               copper and lead industry have been prepared.

7. JSC "Namanganmash" and JSC  The strategic investor from Russia Federation LLC "Technology-1" which
"Toj metal"                    purchased the state share in amount of 25% for the sum of 244.4 thousand
                               USD.

8. JSC "Namangankonserva"      Uzbek-Russian JV "Soyuzprom" purchased 49% shares of JSC
                               "Namangankonserva." The enterprise requested to close the project and it is
                               planning to develop the measures of restructuring on its own, taking into
                               account the experience of JV "Soyuzprom" in the restructuring of canning
                               factories in CIS countries.




                                                     - 22 -

Case-By-Case Privatization Component B
    Company to be Privatized                               Output-Latest Status
1. SJSC Uzcable                   Sold to 64% of shares to ZEROMAX
2. JSC Ammophos                   Diagnostics and tenders conducted twice. First tender, winner did not
                                  follow through to negotiations. Second tender, only one bidder and
                                  tender was nullified.
3. JSC Ohangaroncement            Sold 50% of shares to JV Bentonite (Uzbek-American venture in two
                                  transactions of 25% each.
4. JSC Kyzylkumcement             Diagnostics and valuation performed and tender launched for 30% of
                                  shares, but failed because of lack of bidders.
5. JSC Electrokimyosanoat         Tender was carried out but failed. Company is being restructured
                                  further and search for investors is ongoing.
6. JSPA Uzmetcombinat             Diagnostics and tender carried out with 33% of shares offered.
                                  Tender failed due to lack of bids. New tender is planned.
7. JSC "Kukon Spirt" and "Andijon Tender conducted but no bids. Search for investors is ongoing.
Biokimyo zavodi"
8. JSC "Navoiazot"                Tendered and two bids were received by State Tender Committee
                                  found both bids not in compliance with tender requirements.
9. JSC "Uzbektelecom"             Diagnostics and valuation and tender documents prepared. STC is
                                  reviewing the documents and when bidding price agreed, tender will
                                  go forward.
10. "Uzbekneftegaz" National      Consultant recommended four privatization options and Government
Holding Company                   issued Cabinet of Ministers Resolution #460 to restructure
                                  Uzbekneftegaz. Valuation and tender documents not yet done.
11.TAPC                           Diagnostics and assessment for privatization were carried out. Tender
                                  for 25.6% of shares was conducted, but failed to attract bids. Pursuit
                                  of investors is ongoing.
12. Airport "Tashkent"            Diagnostic and privatization potential assessed. It was decided to
                                  delay further privatization efforts.
      Privatization Reforms
Oil and Gas Sector                GOU Resolution #460 (October 21, 2003) restructured Uzbekneftegas
                                  into four independent legal entities, holding companies, to make it
                                  more attractive for foreign investors.
Telecommunications Sector         Telecommunication Law (August 20, 1999), tariffs were liberalized
                                  and the role and functions of the regulatory agency. Followed up with
                                  GOU Resolution #458, "Measures to Improve Management in
                                  Telecommunications and Post."
Chemical sector.                  Cabinet of Ministers Decree #33, January 23, 2004, which was based
                                  on consultant recommendations to separate non-production units from
                                  main production of chemical enterprises and restructuring of the
                                  production and sale of mineral fertilizers.



Capital Markets Development Component C
             Activity                                      Output-Latest Status
Develop automated system for      Feasibility study to connect regional offices of stock exchange and
securities exchange               Tashkent office. Computer system installed. Corporate data logged
                                  in, system tested and undergoing operational trials. Expected to be
                                  able to accommodate high case growth of share trading for next five
                                  years.




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Post-Privatization Advisory Service                         16.20            1.82            11.2
Case-by-Case Privatization                                  26.50            6.29            23.7
Capital Markets                                              2.40            1.09            45.4
Unallocated                                                  2.60            0.00               0

Total Baseline Cost                                         47.70            9.20
                         Total Project Costs                47.70            9.20
                   Total Financing Required                 47.70            9.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           1.14             0.00         0.07         0.00          1.21
                                   (1.14)          (0.00)      (0.07)         (0.00)       (1.21)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        41.32         0.00         41.32
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (22.72)        (0.00)      (22.72)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         2.57         0.00          2.57
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.46)         (0.00)       (1.46)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           1.14             0.00        43.96         0.00         45.10
                                   (1.14)          (0.00)      (24.25)        (0.00)      (25.39)




                                                - 24 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.72               0.00              0.07             0.00              0.79
                                           (0.72)             (0.00)            (0.07)            (0.00)           (0.79)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.69)            (0.00)           (7.69)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.71)            (0.00)           (0.71)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.72               0.00              0.07             0.00              0.79
                                           (0.72)             (0.00)            (8.47)            (0.00)           (9.19)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Post Privatization Advisory    13.50         2.70         0.00        1.82         0.00       0.00       13.5      0.0       0.0
Service /a
Case-by-Case Privatization      9.50        17.00         0.00        6.29         0.14       0.00       66.2      0.8       0.0
Capital Markets /a              2.40         0.00         0.00        1.09         0.00       0.00       45.4      0.0       0.0
Unallocated                     2.60         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Financing Required       28.00        19.70         0.00        9.20         0.00       0.00       32.9      0.0       0.0

  Note: EIBB did not provide Government financing numbers.
  /a Total costs for these two components (A and C) were US$2.91 million. Costs submitted by the EIBB
  were not separated for these two components. The allocation of the US$2.91 million is an estimate.




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                         No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                             (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count              Specialty                           Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               01/1997                          3    TTL, E, PSD
               04/1997                          3    TTL, E, PSD

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               04/1998                          8    TTL, E, En., P, PSD

 Supervision

               04/1999                          3    TTL, P, PSD                              S             HS
               12/1999                          3    TTL, E, F                                S              S
               05/2000                          2    TTL, F                                  U               S
               12/2000                          2    TTL, E                                  U               S
               05/2001                          6    TTL, E, F, P, PSD                       U               S
               12/2001                          2    TTL, E                                  U               S
               02/2002                          5    TTL, E, P                               U               U
               10/2002                          3    TTL, PSD, E                             U               S
               02/2003                          3    TT, E, F                                U               S
               06/2003                          4    TTL, E, P                               U               S
               11/2003                          3    TTL, E, P                               U               S
               12/2003                          2    TTL, E                                  U               U
               06/2004                          1    TTL, E                                  U               U
               11/2004                          2    TTL, E                                  U               U
               12/2004                          1    TTL                                      S              S
               06/2005                          1    TTL                                     U               U

 ICR
               09/2005                          2     TTL, E                                 U               U

TTL - Task team Leader, E - Economist, P - Privatization Specialist, PSD - Private Sector Development
Specialist, F - Financial Specialist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                         397,524
  Supervision                                                                 1,254,019
  ICR                                                                                20
  Total                                                                       1,651,563
Note 1: Staff week totals not available (SAP does not provide staff weeks prior to FY2000).
Note 2: Appraisal/Negotiation includes Identification/Preparation.

Note 3: In addition to bank budget, $364,455 from trust funds was spent on EIBL as follows:




                                                      - 27 -

Lending                 $297,454
Supervision     $ 67,001
Total TF        $364,455

Total TF and BB $2,015,998




                                    - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for Uzbekistan

Project Appraisal Document For a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$28.0 to the Republic of
Uzbekistan for an Enterprise Institution Building Loan, May 8, 1998

Loan Agreement for EIBL, June 1998

Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File)

Other Project Files, BTOs, A-Ms, etc.

Capital Market Development Component Final Report, June 2005




                                                  - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Uzbekistan - September 12-16, 2005




                                           - 32 -

        Name/Organization                                     Position

State Property Committee
Makhmudjon Akhmatovich Askarov    Chairman

Cabinet of Ministers
Mr. Safaev Nodir                  Chief Specialist, Dept for Foreign Economic Relations

Ministry of Finance
Mr. Dilshod O. Musaev             Deputy Minister
Mr. Nodirbek Khusanov             Head of Division

Case-by-Case Privatization Bureau
Mr. Ulugbek K. Vahabov            Director General

Enterprise Institution Building
Bureau
Mr. Farmankulov                   Director General

UzStroiMaterialy
Mr. Nekrutenko Victor             Head of Dept for Securities and Monitoring.

UzKabel
Mr. Shakhzod M. Khasanbaev        General Director
Yevgeniy A. Yerofeyev             First Deputy of the General Director
Mr. Shavkat DJ. Razikov           Chief Engineer
Ms. Yermolina L.                  Head of Dept for Investment and Securities

UzbekKhimMash
Ms. Medvedeva Irina               Representative of Director General for Quality Management
Ms. Vologa Raisa                  Chief Designer & Foreign Relations Department
Mr. Fayzulaev N. Shokir           General Manager
Mr. Rziev R. Bahtiyar             First Deputy of General Manager

AkhangaranCement
Mr. Usmanov Nosir                 1st Deputy Director General
Mr. Zuparov Umid                  Deputy Director for Science and Technology
Ms. Nazarova Lozoqat              Head of Dept for Laabor and Securities

UzVtorTsetMet
Mr. Dolzhenko Alexander           Deputy Director General
Mr. Salokhidin M. Safarov         Executive Director
Ms. Nigmatova Svetlana            Chief Accountant
Mr. Kadyrkhanov                   Planning Dept.
Mr. Rakhimov                      Technical Director

EBRD
Mr. Andrzej Witak                 Head of Office/Senior Banker

UzDAEWOO Bank
Mr. Bakhtiyor Abdullaev           Deputy Chairman of the Board

Commerzbank
Mr. Torsten Erdmann               Head of Representative Office



                                             - 33 -

- 34 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

1.       Assessment of the Enterprise Institution Building Loan (EIBL) Objectives

1.1. Original Objective

The original objectives of the Enterprise Institutional Building Loan were to provide assistance to the
Government of Uzbekistan in the following areas: (a) improve efficiency of privatized enterprises; (b)
support the implementation of the Borrower's policy of case-by-case privatization to improve enterprise
efficiency and attract foreign know-how and capital; (c) enhance effectiveness of capital markets, widen
public participation therein and protect shareholders; and (d) strengthen the institutional capacity to
facilitate enterprise reform, consistently with the Resolution. The project validity period was 5 years with
the closing date December 31, 2003.

1.2. Revised Objective

In course of the World Bank Missions in 2003, it was agreed to extend the validity period of the EIBL
Agreement till December 31, 2004 to complete in the year of 2004 the ongoing Case by Case Privatization
and Capital Market Development projects, on which the financial advisors have been hired and continue
working.


For this purpose the Work plan and Budget for the year of 2004 had been developed, based on which the
draft resolution of the Government was prepared, agreed with all interested ministries and authorities. On
December 30, 2003 the Government of Uzbekistan issued the Resolution No. 577 "On Additional
Measures on Implementation of the Enterprise Institution Building Loan of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development", which foresees extension of the EIBL closing date till December 31,
2004 and cancellation of the unused part of the loan in the amount of 17,6 mln. USD.

On May 21, 2004 the World Bank issued an agreement letter on these amendments to the EIBL Agreement
and at the same time proposed to revise the project objectives as follows:

(a) improve efficiency of privatized enterprises; (b) support the implementation of the Borrower's policy of
case-by-case privatization to improve enterprise efficiency and attract foreign know-how and capital by (i)
preparation for privatization at least ten (10) large scale enterprises; and (ii) sale at least one (1) large scale
enterprise to the strategic investor by the end of project; (c) enhance effectiveness in the functioning of
capital markets by improving access to and facilitating the flow of information on issuers, turnover and
prices; and (d) strengthen the institutional capacity to facilitate enterprise reform, consistently with the
Resolution.

1.3. Original Components

EIBL had three components: (1) Post Privatization Advisory Services, (2) Case by Case Privatization and
(3) Capital market Development. The rationale and activities for each component and their original
allocations were as follows:

Post Privatization Advisory Services and Capital Market development components ($13.73 million).
The objectives of the Post Privatization Advisory Services were: (1) carrying out of diagnostic studies of
Beneficiary Enterprises aimed at identifying and prioritizing the enterprises' needs for advisory services
and assessing their receptivity to consulting services; (2) Preparation of terms of reference for and
provision of advisory services to Beneficiary Enterprises in respect of or relating to their rehabilitation and
restructuring, including the development of their marketing strategy and quality management systems,



                                                      - 35 -

provision of partner search, upgrade of products to international standards, and implementation of modern
accounting, financial and commercial management systems, and preparation of feasibility studies for
presentation to credit institutions; (3) Strengthening of EIBB through the provision of consultant's services,
computers and office equipment and development of local consultant companies.

The objectives of the Capital Market Development component were: (1) development of the CSM by
providing assistance in the regulation of securities markets commensurate with international practices in
areas, including: (a) the promotion of an active secondary market and the surveillance of the secondary
market; (b) the promotion of disclosure and information exchange in such areas as listing and quotation of
shares, the financial status of issuers, prices and turnover and trading information (prices, bids and offers);
and (c) on-the-job training and twinning with other regulatory authorities for the staff of the CSM; (2)
provision of assistance to support the development of secondary trading in the TSE and over the counter
market, including: (a) development of systems for the exchange of information on market activity; (b)
advice on issues which may hinder share trading such as corporate finance, availability of reliable
information on corporate activities and earnings, and identification and resolution of other impediments to
corporate governance/restructuring; and (c) advise on methods for supporting the development of trade in
shares in unlisted corporations; (3) Technical upgrade of the operating practices and computer systems of
the NDV with a view to supporting improvements in key areas, including: (a) the legal framework of the
NDV; (b) linking securities transfer to cash transfer; (c) the reduction of settlement times and fees; (d) risk
management; (e) legal issues related to securities settlement; (f) establishing electronic links with the CSM,
the TSE and the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (the settlement agent); and (g) increased orientation through
the establishment of user groups and objectives for customer services; (4) provision of training of the staff
of the CSM, TSE and NDV, under the auspices of the CSM acting as coordinator, in relevant fields,
including finance, risk management and corporate and financial law.

1.4. Revised Components:

There were no revisions, nor was there a major restructuring of the project. However, as above indicated,
there was some cancellation of unused funds. For the Post Privatization Advisory Services and Capital
Market Development Components the revised allocation is as follows:




  #        Category                        Initial allocation of  Cancelled amount        Revised allocation
                                           EIBL funds             of funds                of EIBL funds


  (1)      Consultants services and
           training                                13 730 000            11 810 852                1 919 148

  (2)      Goods                                      970 000                106 587                 863 413
  (3)      Operational expenditures                   765 000                457 258                 307 742
           Total                                   15 465 000            12 374 697                3 090 303



2.       Assessment of the Project components design

One of the main directions of the economic reforms in Uzbekistan is to privatize the large-scale enterprises
through selling their shares to foreign investors. In this way the Government of Uzbekistan is intending to
increase the share of the private sector in the economy. EIBL project development objectives fully comply




                                                       - 36 -

with the government's current economic development polices and reform priorities. Therefore, the
Enterprise Institution Building Loan's design with its Post ­ privatization, Case-by-Case Privatization and
Capital Markets Development Components actively supported the Governments in large scale privatization,
post ­ privatization and capital markets development processes.

In relation to the EIBL design there were two implementation units, which are specialized for the specific
tasks such as (i) post privatization support and capital markets development and (ii) case by case
privatization. During the project implementation process these Bureaus have gained very strong experience
in their functional working areas and we hope that they will continue their operation after completion of the
project.


3.       Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

3.1.     Post Privatization Advisory Services component-- implementation Assessment

On the component A Post Privatization Advisory Services of the Enterprise Institution Building Loan the
diagnostic studies of 21 enterprises were carried out and 9 enterprise restructuring projects were
implemented. The post privatization support to enterprises was implemented by carrying out the case by
case restructuring projects with attraction of the international consultants.

In accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement to implement the restructuring projects within the
framework of the Component A, EIBB with approval of Supervisory Board and the World Bank selected
enterprises on the basis of the following criteria:

(i) enterprises which are majority owned or controlled by shareholders other than the Borrower or any
person (including corporate entities) representing the interest of the Borrower or any entities majority
owned or controlled by the Borrower;

(ii) enterprises 30 percent of the shares of which are either owned or controlled by outside shareholders.
The term "outside shareholders" means (1) shareholders other than the Borrower or any other entity or
individual representing the interest of the Borrower, or (2) non-employee shareholders;

(iii) enterprises that are willing to enter into an agreement with EIBB to collaborate with consultants and
pay a share of the costs of their advisory services (25 percent);

(iv) enterprises whose improvements in profitability can be achieved initially, within the constraints of
existing equipment and technology, through management, organizational, accounting, financial and
marketing improvements;

(v) enterprises that are not subject to control by the Associations as regards their inputs and outputs (such
as price control, restrictions on sales, dependence on monopoly state-owned supplier).

The main reasons for low disbursement of funds and slow realization of the Post Privatization Advisory
Services component were the following factors:

·        disinterest of management of enterprises in attraction of an independent consultant into the
company. Many managers of enterprises associated the activity of consultants, which is connected with an
in-depth study of the company, with the work of fiscal and other controlling bodies;




                                                       - 37 -

·        non-effective, before adoption of Decree of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan as of
January 24, 2003 #UP-3202, corporate management of the privatized enterprises, lack (absence) of the
market skills of enterprises' managers. In most of enterprises, in fact, there was a lack of large shareholders
interested in profitability of the company and in its development and that participated in its management;

·        high cost of consulting services (according to the Loan agreement, enterprises recipients of
consulting services should pay 25% from the total amount of provided services by an international
consultant). As most of enterprises have difficulties with working capital, this provision often could not be
acceptable for many of them.

3.1.1. JSC "Uzbekkrovlya"
 Main activity                     ­   Production of soft roofing and waterproofing materials
Location                           ­   Namangan region, Pap
Branch                             ­   SC "Uzkurilishmateriallari"
International consultant           ­   KPMG Uzbekistan Ltd.

Within the framework of restructuring project at JSC "Urganch excavator", the diagnostics of the
enterprise has been carried out and it was defined the main directions of work on increase of efficiency. The
international consultant, the company KPMG Uzbekistan Ltd, has worked out the recommendations on
optimization of production process and services of logistics of the enterprise.

In accordance with the recommendations of the company KPMG Uzbekistan Ltd, under the participation of
EIBB, number of decisions of Supervisory Board of JSC "Uzbekkrovlya", which were directed to the
stabilization and development of financial situation, have been taken. The significant volume of current
assets has been released at the expense of liquidation of unprofitable industry (subsidiary economy, sewing
shop and others), reduction of raw materials and rejection of deflection of turnover means. For instance,
reserves of rags used in production of cardboard have been decreased from 2500 tons up to 540 tons
that led to release current assets in amount of about 35 mln.UZS.

Besides, it has been made an financial calculation of expediency of partial substitution of one kind of used
raw material (waste paper) with another kind of raw (rags) subject to lower purchase price and higher
power consuming of assembling of the last one (rag), that allowed to decrease the cost price of produced
cardboard for 5% at simultaneous development of product quality. The total saving amounted to 26 mln.
UZS at the expense of determination of deflection of current assets.

The debts of the enterprise at state budget has been paid, debts on wages, deductions into the pension fund
and total amount of credits have been significantly decreased.

During the process of implementation of the project the enterprise has received credits for the sum of 50
mln. UZS from the bank "Tadbirkorbank".

3.1.2. JSC "TKO Uzbekistan"
 Main activity                      ­    Production of hard, juft, artificial leather goods and soles
Location                            ­    Tashkent
Branch                              ­    Association "Uzbekcharmpoyabzali"
International consultant            ­    CAST Srl. (Italy)

The diagnostic investigation of the enterprise made by EIBB defined the main directions of the restructuring
project at the enterprise.



                                                     - 38 -

The consultant has made the analysis and worked out the recommendations, which were reflected in the
reports on the strategic investigation of market, on development of industry system, supply system and
finance management. Particularly, the market possibilities of enterprise's product nomenclature have been
analyzed, the analysis of technology, the evaluation of production and quality of the products of "TKO
Uzbekistan" have been carried out. Also the current supply system has been studied and there were given
some recommendations on its development , the consultants offered their plan on reconstruction of the
enterprise, development of new kinds of products made by Bet Blue and Crast and their progress in local
and external (foreign) markets.

On the basis of analysis of existing financial system of the enterprise, it was presented the Business plan on
liquidation of solvency and increase of profitability of the company. As a result of implementation of
project, the commodity turnover ha been increased from 133.5 up to 342.5 mln. UZS, net profit has
constituted 4.6 mln. UZS when before the implementation of the project, the enterprise has a loss in the
sum of 4.88 mln UZS.

3.1.3. JSC "Sankurta'mirlash"
 Main activity                      ­     Production of non-metallic construction materials: sand,
                                          ballast, gravel, gravel-sand mixture, fireproof bricks
Location                            ­     Tashkent
Branch                              ­     SC "Uzkurilishmateriallari"
International consultant            ­     IDEA Ltd. (Czechia)

With the purpose of preparation of restructuring project at the enterprise EIBB has carried out the
investigation of the enterprise where the main directions of restructuring have been pointed out.

The consultant implemented the works on the strategic investigation of non metallic materials market and
on option of equipment to allocate the new production. In accordance with the recommendations, the
enterprise diversified its portfolio by regulating the production of fire proof bricks, imitations and pavement
plats. In order to produce new products, the equipment on production of imitations with capacity of 200
thousand per a year and pavement plates with capacity of 600 sq.m. per a year has been mounted.

With the purpose of increase the quality of fireproof bricks and increase of profits from its production the
workshop (on producing bricks) has been transferred to self supporting basis. Besides production of bricks
such as ShCU-3 and ShCU-4, the production of bricks of model ShCU-6 is developed as well. In order to
improve producing of sand and ballast, the production line, grinder and weighbridge of the enterprise have
been mounted.

Business plan has been prepared on receiving credits to supplement current assets, the agreement with
HIF-Bank on receiving the credits in amount of 8 mln.UZS has been signed.

3.1.4. JSC "Metalloplastmass"
 Main activity                     ­     Production on package corking materials
Location                           ­     Tashkent region, Yangiyul
Branch                             ­     HC "Uzmevasabzavotuzumsanoat"
International consultant           ­     RES&Co. (Great Britain)

EIBB carried out the diagnostic investigation of the enterprise, on the basis of it there was worked out the
project of restructuring with attraction of an international consultant.




                                                      - 39 -

The consultant carried out the analysis and gave recommendations on optimization of current industrial and
financial system of management and development of raw supply and control of raw materials utilization.
As a result of implementation of recommendations at the enterprise the sales revenue increased from 290 up
to 531 mln. UZS.

It was worked out the technical and economic basis to attract financing and modernization of products
produced by the plant. As a result of conducted analysis, the enterprise was advised to manufacture the
liquid products as covers typed "twist off" and lithographed corks. Due to that, it was carried out the
financial and economic analysis of investments evaluation, which are necessary for purchase of production
line to manufacture of new products.

The consultant worked out the programs of small and large-scale investments:

production of lattice plastic boxes;

input of capacity (equipment) on production of swirling covers with combined utilization of existing and
utilized equipment.

The list of foreign and local companies with foreign capital, which has been interested in investing is made
and the information memorandum of the company is prepared. It was defined the partner, JV "S&V", in
order to form the joint enterprise with JSC "Metalloplastmas" with the purpose of implementation of these
programs.

However, instead of recommended by the consultant program of purchase of lacking equipment to bring the
current lines to world standards, on initiative of Holding company by the manger of the enterprise the
decision on purchase of new production line under the credit of the company "Kuomo" (Italy) on
production of covers "twist off" for the sum of 5 mln.USD has been taken.

3.1.5. JSC "Plant Uzbekhimmash"
 Main activity                         ­       Production of oil, gas and chemical production: heat exchange
                                               equipment of specific and general purpose, air and gas turbo
                                               compressors, pumps, ventilations and non-standard equipment
                                               and consumer goods
Location                               ­       Tashkent region, Chirchik
Branch                                 ­       NHK "Uzbeknegtegas"
International consultants              ­       The Ural Interregional Certification Centre (Russia),
                                               BVQI-Turkey (Turkey)

The aim of the project at JSC "Plant Uzbekhimmash" is a certification of plant in compliance with
requirements of international system of ISO quality standard 9001:2000.

The consultant LLC "The Ural Inter-regional Certification Centre" has carried out:

·        evaluation audit of current quality system of the plant; and
·        actions on preparation of management system of quality, training of the personnel of the plant and
preparation of all necessary documentation for certification according to the standards of ISO 9001:2000.

Based on the recommendations of the consultant the Department for quality management has been formed,
the Policy and Aims in the sphere of Quality of JSC "Plant Uzbekhimmash" have been adopted. With the
assistance of the consultant the enterprise has prepared the project of management system of quality which


                                                     - 40 -

includes more than 1200 procedures in compliance with the requirements of international standards of
quality ISO 9000.

The company BVQI-Turkey has implemented the preliminary certification and certification audit of
management system of quality of JSC "Plant Uzbekhimmash" for compliance with the requirements of
international standard ISO 9001:2000. Based on the certification audit, JSC "Plant Uzbekhimmash" has
received the certificate of quality for management system of quality of plant and products as vessel under
the pressure for oil-gas-chemical and energetic complexes.

Receiving of international certificate of quality intensify the competitiveness and export potential of JSC
"Plant Uzbekhimmash".

3.1.6. JSC "Uzvtorcvetmet"
 Main activity                         ­    Secondary processing non ferrous metal scraps, production of
                                            aluminum and cupric alloy, copper rod, enamel lead, consumer
                                            goods from non-ferrous metal.
Location                               ­    Tahskent
International consultant               ­    "Yunikon MS" (Russia)

EIBB has conducted the diagnostic investigation of the enterprise, based on that the project of restructuring
has been prepared.

The consultant has carried out the integral evaluation of financial activity of JSC "Uzvtorcvetmet" which
includes the analysis of financial condition of the company and production expenditures. The technical and
economic substantiations of modernization of copper and lead industry have been prepared.

A more effective strategy of the enterprise development for the year 2006 and business plan for the year
2004 has been worked out. Also the documentations on regulation of internal documents circulation, the
conception of budget system, analytical memo on tax consequences of writings-off of non used current
assets in manufacturing and marketing conception have been worked out as well.

There were developed the registration policy, the methodology of the separate registration of expenditures,
management system of quality on basis of ISO 9001 standard, the model of evaluation of activity results
sensitivity to the changes of prices for raw materials, production volumes and products sale prices and the
simulation finance model of the enterprise activity have been developed.

The consultant has conducted the trainings for enterprise personnel. Some changes, which optimize the
AME, have been made into the organizational structure of the enterprise.

The enterprise has developed production of copper alloy and produced 500 tons of import constituting
production; the sphere of export in sale volume has been increased up to 30%.

3.1.7. JSC "Namanganmash" and JSC "Toj metal"

EIBB has carried out the diagnostic investigation of the enterprise of machine building, on the basis of that
the project of restructuring of two enterprises with attraction of international consultant Georgetown Int.
Investment Banking Services Inc. (USA) has been implemented.




                                                      - 41 -

 JSC "Namanganmash"
Main activity                     ­    Production of stop valves of heat energy system,
                                       hydroelectric power stations, chemical and gas complexes
Location                          ­    Namangan region, Namangan
Branch                            ­    Liquidated Association "Uzmashsanoat"

The consultant has carried out the financial analysis of the enterprise and marketing investigation of valves
made by Russian Federation.

The measures on restructuring which were directed to increase the sale and institutional development have
been worked out. Besides that, the conception on distribution, presentation materials and website
enterprises have been worked out, the price policy of the enterprise was revised, the trainings on sale and
supply management and techniques of negotiations have been conducted.

The preparation on development of management system of quality in compliance with standards ISO 9000
has been implemented, the system of innovations and products development has been formed; the
optimization of financial account and financial management has been carried out. During the process of
implementation of the enterprise, the enterprise made first sales by the electronic trade for the sum of 13
thousand USD, and it exported the products for the products for the sum of 100 thousands USD to Russia.

The strategic investor from Russia Federation LLC "Technology-1" which purchased the state share in
amount of 25% for the sum of 244.4 thousand USD.

 JSC "Toj metal"
Main activity             ­    Production of cotton ginning equipment, industrial and household
                               products
Location                  ­    Andijan region, Andijan
Branch                    ­    Liquidated Association "Uzmashsanoat"

The consultant has carried out the work on diversification of the enterprise product range, as a result of it
some new kinds of products were found: bucket and screw loaders, ventilation system and draw off, rotary
rolls for grinding equipment , besides that, the evaluation of market capacity on the present kinds of
products has been implemented .

The measures of restructuring, which are directed to increase of sale and institutional development have
been worked out. Besides that, the conception on distribution, presentation materials and website
enterprises have been worked out, the price policy of the enterprise was revised, and the trainings on sale
and supply management and techniques of lobbying and negotiations have been conducted.

However, the difficulties of the enterprise rose because of insolvency for supplied equipment and spare
parts of the main customer of enterprise, this is Association "Uzpahtasanoat", and those difficulties did not
allow to develop all explicit actions.

Despite that EIBB continued working with the enterprise and organized a tender for sale of 25% of state
shares, and successfully completed sales of shares to Endeavour LLC (USA) for USD 250 thous. and
investment obligations in the amount USD 400 thous.

3.1.8. JSC "Namangankonserva"


                                                     - 42 -

 Main activity                         ­    Production of canned fruits and vegetables and tomato
Location                               ­    Namangan region, Namangan
Branch                                 ­    HC "Uzmevasabzavotuzumsanoat-holding"
International consultant               ­    Corporate Solutions (Great Britain)

Within the frame of preparation of restructuring project EIBB has prepared the diagnostic investigation of
the enterprise.

The consultant has carried out the detailed analysis of financial condition of the enterprise, internal and
external factors which influence on the economic activity of the enterprise. The key problems have been
pointed out, their reasons have been revealed and SWOT analysis has been made. Based on that, the
Strategic plan of restructuring has been worked out where development of the effective methods of finance
management and report systems and also forming and development of marketing and sale services have
been stipulated.

Due to appearing of large shareholder, the Uzbek-Russian JV "Soyuzprom" which purchased 49% shares
of JSC "Namangankonserva" the enterprise made a request on closing of the project and it is planning to
develop the measures of restructuring with its own power taking into account the experience of JV
"Soyuzprom" gained by it in the sphere of restructuring of canning factories in CIS countries.

3.2 Case by Case Privatization-- implementation Assessment

The objectives of the Case-by-Case Privatization Component were: (1) provision of advisory services,
including services by investment banks, for managing case-by-case privatization of Selected Enterprises,
analyzing their investment requirements and, if appropriate, preparing their shares for public placement on
the stock markets, including the public relations required for such placement, and (2) strengthening of
CCPB through the provision of consultants' services, computers and office equipment.

Originally It was planned within the Case by Case Privatization component to complete thirteen (13)
privatization plans and Government award of ten (10) privatization contracts with the purpose of sale seven
(7) large scale enterprises to strategic investors by end of project and implementation of recommendations
of advisers for sectoral reforms (e.g., decrees adopted for sectoral reforms, including regulations,
corporatization).

The Case-by-Case Privatization Component objectives were revised as follows: to complete ten (10)
privatization plans and Government award of ten (10) privatization contracts with the purpose of sale one
(1) large scale enterprise to a strategic investor by end of project and implementation of recommendations
of advisers for sectoral reforms.

Revised Components:

There were no revisions, nor was there a major restructuring of the project. However, as above indicated,
the was some cancellations of unused funds:

Component                                                         Planned                 Actual

       (1) Post Privatization Advisory Services                              13 500 000               3 090 303

       (2) Case by Case Privatization                                         9 500 000               7 236 697

       (3) Capital market Development.                                        2 400 000                 863 413




                                                      - 43 -

      (4) Unallocated funds                                                    2 600 000                      0

      Total                                                                   28 000 000             10 327 000



Assessment of the "Case by Case Privatization" component design

One of the main directions of the economic reforms in Uzbekistan is to privatize the large-scale enterprises
through selling their shares to foreign investors. In this way the Government of Uzbekistan is intending to
increase the share of the private sector in the economy. EIBL project development objectives fully comply
with the government's current economic development polices and reform priorities. Therefore, the
Enterprise Institution Building Loan's design with its Post ­ privatization, Case-by-Case Privatization and
Capital Markets Development Components actively supported the Governments in large scale privatization,
post ­ privatization and capital markets development processes.

In particular the loans contribution in application of international practice of case-by-case privatization in
Uzbekistan was remarkable. Furthermore, the Case­by­Case privatization component's assistance in
accelerating the economic reforms in Uzbekistan in way of radical strengthening private sector and
corporate governance principles looks very important.

In relation to the EIBL design there was organized two implementation units, which are specialized for the
specific tasks such as (i) post privatization support and capital markets development and (ii) case by case
privatization. During the project implementation process these Bureaus have gained very strong experience
in their functional working areas and we hope that they will continue their operation after completion of the
project.

Achievements of Case by Case Privatization Projects

In accordance with the Government Resolutions and the World Bank approval CCPB presently works over
case-by-case privatization of 16 big enterprises, with the engagement of international financial advisors,
financed out by the EIBL and selected on the tender basis.

Under the Case-by-Case privatization component currently 10 large-scale enterprises have been fully
prepared for the privatization and on the other 6 oil and gas enterprises the Financial Advisers has
completed two beginning phases of the project: diagnostic analysis and market assessment.

In spite of the slow pace of the case-by-case privatization projects, the achieved results within each
individual project are highly satisfactory.

3.2.1    Uzcable Privatization Project
On the open tender basis there was engaged an international investment bank Raiffaizen Investment AG
(Austria) to provide financial advisory services on Uzcable privatization. The contract amount was 200
000 USD, which was fully paid to the consultant upon approval of the submitted reports. The consultant
conducted diagnostic analysis and valuation of the enterprise's shares, as well as prepared tender
documents and organized open tenders, which were considered as failed due to the absence of bidders. In
accordance with the State Tender Committee decision, there was carried out direct negotiation with
ZEROMAX LLC. (USA) and on March 29, 2004 the Sale-Purchase Agreement on the sale of 64% shares
of SJSC "Uzcable" was signed with ZEROMAX LLC on the terms of 10,5 mln. USD lump sum purchase
payment and 15 mln. USD investment obligations. To date the investor has made the full purchase payment
and is working on the development of five­year investment plan. Zeromax LLC made the Success Fee
payment to Raiffaizen Investment AG in the amount of 510 thousand USD, which is 2% from the
transaction value, as stipulated by the contract between the Consultant and CCPB.




                                                      - 44 -

3.2.2    Ohangaroncement Privatization Project
On the open tender basis there was engaged an international investment bank Credit Commercial de France
(France) to provide financial advisory services on case-by-case privatization of Ohangaroncement. In
accordance with the contract terms the Consultant conducted legal, industrial and financial audit of the
enterprise, valued its shares and prepared render documents, after which there was announced an open
tender on Ohangaroncement privatization. At the same time, the Consultant sent to 50 cement producing
companies an individual invitation to the tender and «Report on the enterprise». However, there was no
interest on behalf of strategic investors on this investment opportunity and the Consultant could not sell
Ohangaroncement shares during three years from 1999 to 2001. Upon approval of the submitted reports,
full contract amount 150 000 US dollar was paid to Credit Commercial de France.

Therefore, in 2002, in agreement with the World Bank and State Property Committee, the tank of selling
Ohangaroncemnt's 25% shares assigned to EPIC (Austria) - the winner of the tender on financial advisory
services on Kyzylkumcement. In accordance with the contract terms EPIC completed all pre-privatization
phases and there were carried out open tenders on the sale of 25% shares of the enterprise, which were
considered as failed due to the absence of bids. Therefore, in accordance with the State Tender Committee
decision, there was carried out direct negotiations with Holcim (Switzerland), and Uzbek - American JV
Bentonite on the terms and conditions of buying the remaining 25% shares of the enterprise. On June 9,
2004 Sales Purchase Agreement on 25% Ohangaroncement shares was signed with Uzbek-American JV
Bentonite on terms of 4,5 mln. USD Purchase Payment, 5 mln. USD Investment Obligations and 137,5
thousand USD to the financial advisor EPIC (Austria) as a Success Fee.

3.2.3 Uzbektelecom Privatization Project
In response to the SPN published on the UNDB as of April 30,1999 and announcements in the Financial
Times on 2 and 4 June 1999, there was received Expression of interests from 17 investment banks to
participate in the tender for Financial Advisory Services to privatize Uzbektelecom. RFP was issued to the
9 short listed investment banks, out of which only two bidders: (i) "Commerzbank AG" (Germany) in
consortium with Arthur Andersen (Accountancy firm) and LLGM (Law firm); and (ii) ABN AMRO Bank
(Netherlands) submitted their proposal by the deadline. The State Tender Committee officially proclaimed
"Commerzbank AG" (Germany) as the winner of the tender.

In accordance with the contract terms with Commerzbank AG (Germany) conducted diagnostic analysis
and valuation of Uzbektelecom shares, elaborated privatization strategy and tender documents, presented to
EBRD, ADB and IFC, interest to participate in the Uzbektelecom privatization project. Base on the
Consultant's recommendation there were issued the Resolutions of the Cabinet of Ministries of the
Republic of Uzbekistan #458 as of November 22, 2000 "On the measures on comprehension of the
management systems in telecommunication and postal communication" and #488 as of December 27, 2001
"On measures on the preparation of the Joint Stock Company "Uzbektelecom" for privatization", which
substantially increased the company's attractiveness to foreign investors. State Tender Committee reviewed
the tender documents prepared by the consultant and in near future an open tender is expected on the sale of
Uzbektelecom shares after agreeing the starting bidding price size with the senior officials. Up to date 1
571 260 USD was paid out of 1 786 260 USD. As for the remaining 215 000 USD for the Information
Memorandum, prepared by the Consultant, the amount can be paid after approval of the said document by
the State Tender Committee.

3.2.4    Uzbekneftegaz Privatization Project
The CCPB has published the SPN in the UNDB on August 31,2000 #541/1197 to engage investment
banks for privatization of a number enterprises, The CCPB has prepared a short list of 6 investment banks,
whom the original RFP have been issued on September 28, 2000 with request for the bidders to submit
their technical and financial proposals within 8 week until November 8, 2000.




                                                      - 45 -

Two bidders: (I) Investment Bank "BNP-Paribas" (France) in consortium with "Arthur Andersen"
(Accountancy firm), "Beicip Franlab" (Industry expert) and "Chadbourne &Parke LLP" (Law firm); and
(II) Investment Bank "Raiffeisen Investment AG" (Austria) in consortium with "Ernst &
Young"(Accountancy firm), "Gaffney, Cline & Associates Ltd." (Industry expert), "Baker &
McKenzie"(Law firm) and "Donaev Management Consulting" (Local Subcontractor) had presented
proposals on November 27, 2000.

The consultant BNP Paribas (France) conducted diagnostics, analyzed the potential investors' market,
submitted recommendations regarding selection one of four privatization versions, creation of independent
regulatory agency in the oil and gas sector, conducting financial audit, valuation of oil and gas reserves,
engagement of an consultant for analyzing the regulative environment and introducing the changes into the
legislation of the sector, step by step liberalization of oil and gas tariffs. Up to date 1 155 000 USD was
paid to the consultant out of total contract amount 2 100 000 USD.

Based on the Consultant's recommendation there was issued Cabinet of Ministries Resolution #460 dated
October 21, 2003 "On comprehension of "Uzbeknegtegas" NHC management structure", in accordance of
which there is being implemented restructuring the subsidiary shareholding companies.

Ernst and Young is conducting financial audit of oil and gas companies. NHC "Uzbekneftgas" has selected
Ashurts (UK) for analyzing the regulative environment and introducing the changes into the legislation of
the sector.

3.2.5    Uzmetcombinat Privatization Project
In response to the SPN (UNDB No. 547 on November 30, 2000) six investment banks/consultancies
expressed their interest to participate in the tender for Financial Advisory Services to privatize
Uzmetcombinat. On April 3, 2001 RFP was issued to the 4 short-listed investment banks, out of only two
bidders: (I) Investment Bank "Nmas 1" (Spain) in consortium with "Banco Santander Central Hispano"
(Investment Bank), "Tecnicas Reunidas" (Industry expert) and "Squire Sanders" (Law firm); and (II)
Investment Bank CA IB (Austria) in consortium with RES&Co (Industry expert) presented proposals on
May 17, 2001. State Tender Committee announced CAIB (Austria) as the winner of the tender.

CAIB (Austria) carried out diagnostics, elaborated the privatization strategy, analyzed the potential
investors' market, conducted valuation of the enterprise's shares and prepared tender documents. In
accordance with the State Tender Committee decision the tender on the sale of 33% shares of
the enterprises was considered due to the absence of bids from the participants - Global
Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (Channel Islands) Compania Espanola de Laminacion (Spain) ·
Mathison Holding Group Ltd (Switzerland). The State Tender Committee instructed the State Property
Committee to carry out negotiations with Compania Espanola de Laminacion within the next three months,
taking into account the results of analyzing of the enterprise's finances, legal basis of its operation and
geological information. The full contract amount 295 000 USD was paid to the consultant.

3.2.6    Chemical Enterprises Privatization Project
In response to the SPN publication (UNDB No. 547 as of November 30, 2000) eight investment
banks/consultancies expressed their interest to participate in the tender for Financial Advisory Services to
privatize a Pool of Chemical Companies. Out of short-listed 5 investment banks, only two bidders: (I)
Consulting Company Maxwell Stamp PLC (UK) and (II) Consulting Company Arthur Andersen
International B.V. (Netherlands) presented their technical and financial proposals on July 12, 2001. State
Tender Committee recognized Maxwell Stamp PLC (UK) as the winner of the tender.

Maxwell Stamp (UK) carried out diagnostics, analyzed the potential investors' market and conducted
valuation of Ammophos, Electrkimyosanoat, Andijan biochemical plant, Kokand spirt and Navoiazot
shares. There were prepared tender documents and carried out open tenders on the sale of each of these



                                                       - 46 -

enterprises' shares.

On JSC "Ammophos" there was announced open tender twice: in the first tender two bidders - ThermoPhos
and Bateman both of Netherlands with the first one recognized as the winner. However, the winner of the
tender refused to carry out negotiations. Therefore, there was re-announced an open tender, in which only
one bidder, Bisiness Alliance (Russia) participated. Currently negotiations with that investor is being
carried out.

On JSC "Electrokimyosanoat" - after the open tender with no bids, currently the direct negotiations with
Alvigo (Estonia) and Uzbek American joint venture Haysat Asia, interested to buy the shares of that
enterprise are in process.

On JSC "Kukon Spirt" and "Andijon Biokimyo zavodi" - after the open tender with no bids, currently the
individual search for potential investors is being carried out.

On JSC "Navoiazot" - the open tender has been announced with the bid receiving deadline November 15,
2004. To date the total 750 000 USD 720 000 USD have been paid to the Consultant based on approved
reports.

3.2.7    Kyzylkumcement Privatization Project
More than 10 investment banks consultancy firms expressed their interest to participate in the tender for
Financial Advisory Services to privatize Kyzylkum Cement Plant (SPN in the UNDB as of June 30, 2001).
RFP was issued to 6 short-listed investment banks, all of which had presented proposals till October 11,
2001. By evaluating the technical and financial proposals of the bidders, the State Tender Committee
announced EPIC (Austria) as the winner of the tender.

EPIC conducted diagnostic analysis and valuation of the enterprise's shares, prepared the tender documents
and carried out an open tender, which was considered as failed as a result of a single bid from Russia
Partners (Russia). Currently the individual search for potential investors on the sale of shares of this
enterprise is in process. Total contract amount of 280 000 was paid to the consultant upon completion of
the contract obligations.

3.2.8    TAPC Diagnostic Study Consultant Selection Tender
Three consulting companies CSC Aviazone (Italy), EMFC (USA) and Tecnitas (France) expressed their
interest to participate in the tender for Financial Advisory Services to make a diagnostic study of TAPC
(SPN on the UNDB as of April 26, 2001). The consultant with this assignment was selected on the basis of
the method based on qualifications of consultants Therefore, CCPB reviewed the qualifications of these
three firms and choose EMFC (USA) as the winner of the selection process. EMFC carried out diagnostic
analysis and presented reports in accordance with the contract terms. there is being carried out measures on
restructuring the enterprise in accordance with the EMFC (USA) recommendations. As the further
privatization stages were decided not to be funded by the EBL proceeds, the State Property Committee has
engaged Investment Company "Finam" (Russia) which prepared the tender documents and the open tender
has been announced on November 10, 2004.

3.3      Assessment of Sectoral Reforms Performed within the Framework of the Case-by-Case
Privatization component of EIBL
I.       Along with the Case-by-Case Privatization projects within the framework of the EIBL, effective
reforms have been implemented, in particular in telecommunication, oil and gas and chemicals sectors, as
well as implemented privatization feasibility studies in TAPC and "Tashkent" Airport, the results of which
were used in the Governmental decision making. Among others we can highlight the following major
sectoral reforms implemented within the framework of the EIBL. Additionally, in cooperation with the
financial advisors effective structural reforms are being conducted, particularly in telecommunication, oil
and gas and chemicals' production sectors.


                                                     - 47 -

3.3.1    Structural Reforms in Telecommunication Sector
II.      BMP International (UK) developed telecommunications policy for Uzbekistan together with the
detailed action plan for reforming the Uzbek telecommunication sector. As a result two telecom operators
Makhally Telecom (local operator) and Khalkaro Telecom (international operator) were combined into a
single JSC "Uzbektelecom". Clifford Chance (UK) analyzed the Uzbek telecommunication legal framework
and based on international experience developed Uzbekistan Telecommunication Law adopted by the
Uzbek Parliament on August 20, 1999.

III.     There were also given other valuable recommendation in this policy paper regarding restructuring
the telecommunication sector, liberalization of tariffs, role and functions of the regulative agency.
Commerzbank AG's recommendations caused adoption by the Government of a resolution opening ways
for further perfection of both the company and the sector including the issues of tariffs's liberalization,
functions of an independent regulatory agency etc. In 2001, based on the recommendations of
Commerzbank AG (Germany) there was issued the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministries of the Republic
of Uzbekistan #488 dated, which foresees substantial restructuring JSC "Uzbeketelecom" assets and
liabilities to increase the attractiveness of its shares for the potential investors. Furthermore, as
recommended by the financial adviser, PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited the financial statements of the
enterprise.

3.3.2    SectoralRreforms in Oil and Gas Sector
Similar reformation activities has been performed in other sectors. For instance, based on recommendations
by BNP Paribas (France), the consultant for the Uzbek oil and gas privatization project caused the
Governmental resolution #460 dated October 21, 2003 on restructuring the enterprises of Uzbekistan's oil
and gas sector. Following other recommendations of that advisor, the international financial audit of the
Uzbek oil and gas company is being performed by Ernst and Young and hiring of an international
consultant for analysis and changes into the oil and gas legislation is planned in near future.

Furthermore, as recommended by the financial advisor Ernst and Young is conducting last three years
financial statements audit and it was decided to hire an international law firm to review and introduce the
necessary changes into oil and gas legislation. Presently the draft Program for the Development of the Oil
and Gas Sector till the year 2010 foreseeing further sectoral reforms is being discussed among the
ministries and institutions concerned with the purpose of its approval by the Governmental resolutiion.

There are other examples of that kind that are worth mentioning:

·        the results of privatization feasibility studies performed for TAPC aircraft production plant and
Tashkent airport caused the issuance of a whole set of the constructive decisions by the Government.

·        recommendations by Maxwell Stamp (GB), the advisor for the five chemical plants has become
grounds for starting the constructive search of the ways for branch reforms by the ministries concerned
who plan to elaborate the according draft resolutions and present them to the Government.

3.4      The Expected Results of the Case-by-Case Privatization Projects
In accordance with the work plan of the State Tender Committee by the end of the current year there should
be announced tenders on the sale of shares of all enterprises to be privatized on a case by case basis,
including Uzbekneftegaz enterprises. Within the framework of the Component C "Capital markets
development" there needs to be carried out a tender on procurement of equipment and software for the
installation of electronic systems of control and monitoring and United systems of information of the
securities markets participation. In this connection there was prepared and attached Action Plan on the



                                                       - 48 -

closing of these projects (Attachment #1). In this purpose it is necessary to activate the work of Financial
Advisors, to whom should be paid 2.3 mln. USD (Attachment 2).

According to the WB Aide-Memoire dated September 27, 2004 continuation of the already launched
project on Uzbekneftegaz enterprises related to the stages of valuation, elaboration of tender documents,
arrangement of tender and negotiations with the potential investors, if necessary, should be funded from the
sources other than EIBL.

3.5      Capital Market Development Component

In accordance with Component C of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Uzbekistan and World
Bank as of July 10, 1998 #4353-UZ, the following activities were realized within the Capital Market
Development Project framework.

The following organizations were defined as beneficiaries of the Project by the Parties of the Agreement:

·        Center for Coordination and Control over Functioning of Securities Market (Center);
·        Republic Stock Exchange "Toshkent" (RSE "Toshkent");
·        State Central Securities Depositary (CSD);
·        State Investment Firm "Davincom" (SIF "Davincom");
·        Clearing Chamber "Elsis Clearing";
·        Agency "Consauditinform"

At that, the first three ­ Center, RSE "Toshkent" and CSD ­ are the major and direct beneficiaries as it is
stipulated by the Loan Agreement. The rest of beneficiaries participate in the general local network and are
required to assist in the Project by providing access to their information systems.

Upon the Terms of Reference on development of securities market, the implementation of works was
executed by stages:

1.       Stage I ­ The Strategic recommendations.
2.       Stage II ­ Development and Introduction of the System.


Particularly, at the first stage of the Project the Terms of Reference were developed and tender for
attraction of international consultant was conducted. Upon results of the tender there was signed a Contract
for providing consulting services between Enterprise Institution Building Bureau and company-winner ­
International Securities Consultancy (ISC, Great Britain).

According to the Contract specifications, the Strategic Study of Uzbekistan securities market was
conducted by ISC. Particularly, the Company studied the legislation for functioning of securities market of
the Republic, mechanisms of securities circulation and conducting activity in the stock market. Therefore,
the following main aspects of functioning of Uzbekistan securities market were studied:

·        legal and normative frameworks, including procedures and requirements on listing, shareholders'
rights (including the rights of the state as a shareholder), standards of accounting and general surveillance
over transactions with securities of commercial banks, also the taxation mechanism;

·        interaction of components and institutions of the market (stock market, depositary system, OTC
market) and also functioning of "software" architecture of the market including RSE "Toshkent", the
depositary system, electronic system for OTC securities trading "Elsis Savdo", clearing chamber "Elsis
Clearing";



                                                       - 49 -

·        information flow of securities market, requirements on report and information disclosure system
(including the current system of collection, processing, analysis and distribution of information on the
securities market status);

·        opportunities and potential of CSM in monitoring/control over securities market ;

·        existing market mechanisms (including mechanisms of offering securities for sale);

·        definition of missing elements of the system for the effective functioning of securities market;

·        qualified comparison of existing level of opportunities and resources (financial, human and
technological) with the international standards.


In addition to this, ISC conducted the qualitative assessment of:

·        distinctions and descriptions of market participants (regulating bodies, stock, clearing system,
issuers, brokers, dealers, institutional investors, specialists in legal issues and accounting);

·        market and normative transparence and overall integrity (compliance with the best practice of
corporate management, protection of minor shareholders);

·        opportunities and potential of market agents to execute the expert evaluation and analysis of
companies, manage the risk and carry out subscription effectively;

·        opportunities of forming the associations of investment institutions.

Also, within the framework of analysis, the company organized a round table with participation of
managers of stock market infrastructure, and also a seminar with participation of securities market
specialists (minutes of meeting as of August 10, 1999).

Based on the above-mentioned, the Consultant worked out recommendations for further development of
stock market as one of sections of the Study. Specifically, these recommendations include the followings:

·        priorities and consistence of reforms of the main directions and legal/normative, tax reforms in
areas indicated above;

·        interaction of market components and institutional reform (stock market, depositary system, OTC
market), including organizational structure, specialists deployment, professional training and professional
development of employees);

·        development of information disclosure and provision system (including requirements of report,
rules of access to data);

·        strengthening of monitoring and control over securities market by CSM, including CSM
administration, organizational structure, qualification and employees' potential.

·        normative and legal basis for effective functioning of the two-level depositary system.




                                                      - 50 -

The results of implementation of the Stage I were the following documents:

·        "Strategic Study for the Development of the Uzbekistan Securities Market, Assessment of the
Current Situation", August, 1999.
·        "Strategic Study for the Development of the Uzbekistan Securities Market. Final Report."
September, 1999 (including 3 Appendices).
·        "Strategic Study for the Development of the Uzbekistan Securities Market. Addendum to the Final
Report", January, 2000 (including 1 Appendix).

After discussion and agreement, the Final Report and Addendum to it were approved as a basis for further
actions under the Project (Minutes of meeting of Supervisory Board of EIBB and CCPB #10 as of April
20, 2000).

As a whole at the first stage of the Project there was achieved a positive experience of cooperation with the
international consultant, and a timely implementation of stipulated activities by the Agreement was
provided.

Particularly, ISC carried out the significant research and analytical work. The presented Final Report
includes 24 key recommendations directed to forming of an affective stock market which provide time- and
resource-wise assessment of implementation of each recommendation, and also responsible organizations
and task priorities.

Within the framework of the next stage of the Project ISC worked out the technical specifications for
Hardware and Software to be supplied under the Project. Along with this, the Company presented a
reviewed schedule of project implementation actions which was declined by the Project participants due to
extremely long duration (beyond terms established for project implementation) and proposed increase of
cost for Consultant's services (beyond the stated volume in the above-mentioned contract).

In this regard, the Contract with ISC was terminated and re-bidding was conducted, where European
Profiles S.A. (Greece) was defined as the winner and the appropriate contract was signed with EIBB in
July, 2002.

European Profiles S.A., based on the results achieved during the first stage and existing analytical data,
presented the plan of further actions on implementation of the project which specifies three nominal phases:


·        development of Global Architecture Design (GAD);
·        working out Plan of Actions for each organization involved into the Project;
·        system introduction and monitoring.

Particularly, at the first phase of the II stage the Consultant worked out GAD (approved at the end of July,
2003) based on the analysis of existing software and computer systems, survey of interaction between the
systems of beneficiaries and also definition of requirements to the information systems and
telecommunications infrastructure.

At the next phase, European Profiles S.A. prepared the Plan of Actions for beneficiaries of the Project and
EIBB (approved in June 12, 2003).

Based on the results of the first two phases, at the stage of introduction there were prepared the detailed
specifications of requirements for system introduction (procurement, installation, professional training,
services) which were to be procured with EIBB's assistance.



                                                      - 51 -

The stated specifications provided for creation of two systems: United Information System (UIS) and
Electronic System for Surveillance and Monitoring (ESSM) joined into an Integrated Business Information
System (IBIS) for Uzbekistan securities market participants.

In general, IBIS is presented as a general architecture of the system which includes the necessary
equipment, software products, components and network materials that provide the main structure for
interaction of all market participants.

For its part, ESSM is intended for use by CSM with the purpose of control and monitoring over observance
of legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan by professional securities market participants and issuers.

At that, taking account that this system is a major mechanism for control and monitoring, it is
interconnected with systems of organizations which activity is to be controlled.

ESSM is intended for automation of control and monitoring process by means of using corresponding
algorithm methods, inquiries, reports and forms of collection, processing and analysis of data regarding
market activity, for purposes of support of fair and clear market by revealing potential cases of illegal
practice of trades.

United Information System (UIS) for securities market participants is intended for processing of
preliminary data from different sources (mainly from beneficiaries) and providing the securities market
participants, local and foreign investors and institutions with information, analytical reports and other
materials about the status and development of Uzbekistan securities market.

The stated information includes the following major directions:

·        Information on prices regarding trading activity;
·        Information on listed companies;
·        Financial report of listed companies and other financial data;
·        Management of corporate actions of listed companies and changes in data;
·        Information on index;
·        Information on members of stock exchange.

In accordance with this specifications there was prepared the bidding document and tender was conducted
to identify the Supplier of System. The winner of the bidding was NCI Projects International Inc. (USA).

According to bidding results, the Contract on Supply and Installation of an Integrated Business Information
system (IBIS) for Uzbekistan securities market participants between EIBB and NCI Projects International,
Inc. was signed (as of February 14, 2005).

This Contract stipulated the implementation of activities in the following major directions:

·        Supply of equipment (working stations, servers, switching and peripheral equipment, standard
software products);
·        Creation of structured cable network (local computing network joined into the single corporate
network within the Republic);
·        Development of application software products (modules of ESSM and UIS).

These activities have been implemented by the Supplier till June 30, 2005 with consulting assistance of
European Profiles S.A. Along with it, there was conducted training of beneficiaries' specialists on working
with the system.

The stated aims of system introduction are introduction of United Information System for securities market
participants (UIS) and Electronic System for Surveillance and Monitoring over securities market



                                                     - 52 -

participants (ESSM) for:

·        Development of market control and monitoring over transactions in Uzbekistan stock market;
·        Improvement of interaction between institutions of Uzbekistan securities market infrastructure;
·        Increase productivity of CSM employees labor;
·        Assistance of integration into the international capital markets;
·        Modernization of outdated technologies;
·        Reduction of expenditures for telecommunications and network including expenditures related to
separate networks;
·        Improvement of information provision to market participants;
·        Increase of safety and security of application software.

At the present time, the Project is at the stage of introduction and beneficiaries of the Project are exploiting
the system (Operational Acceptance Certificate of the System is of July 4, 2005).

4.       Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome.
4.1      Factors outside the control of government or implementation agency:

At the beginning of the project worldwide investment climate affected to the decision making process of the
potential investors. In particular after 1998 Russia financial crisis strategic investors were reluctant to
make investments to the Commonwealth of Independent States about their participation in the large-scale
privatization processes.

Presence of political risks in the Central Asia region until the Taliban regime in Afghanistan was
overthrown in 2002.

4.2      Factors generally subject to Government control:

Along with the attained, there are some corporate level factors preventing successful implementation of the
projects. They include:

·        bureaucracy and obstinacy of industrial associations and complexes, Ministries of Finance,
Economy and others in reviewing the reports, tender documentation, draft documents presented by the
consultants concerning the transactions with the investors (for example, Uzmetcombinat and others). The
managers of the enterprises and associations consider being very low the consultant's share valuation
results, performed according to the internationally accepted DCF and comparable transactions methods,
and insist on evaluation based on the incurred expenses method, which is proper in case of property or real
estate sales. The share sale transactions (for example, Ammophos) may end up with the failure due to
reluctance of the ministries and departments to solve the issues, raised by the investors concerning certain
privileges and warranties for an enterprise;

·        protraction of the industrial reforms and structural transformations on the part of associations,
holdings and other economic units, which under any pretext try to delay the consideration of the
international consultant's recommendations regarding necessary changes, working out of agreed proposals
to be presented to the Government for the issuance of the appropriate resolutions (UNG, Chemicals, etc.);

4.3      Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
At the beginning of the project high staff turnover negatively affected to the project implementation quality.
However, during the last four years of project implementation staff continuity was very high and the
Bureau conducted considerable work. This can be proved that in this period the number of enterprises
involved raised up to 18 with the number of the signed Financial Advisory Contracts raised from 2 up to 8.




                                                       - 53 -

5.       The Brrower's Performance During the Evolution and Implementation of the Project

5.1. Preparation

Cabinet Ministry of the Republic of Uzbekistan, State Property Committee, Ministry of Finance and other
ministries were deeply involved in the design and preparation of the project.

5.2.     Government Implementation Performance

The main Government agency responsible for the successful implementation of the project was State
Property Committee of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Therefore, the State Property Committee's heads and
officers cooperate actively in course of the project implementation works and bear the equal, along with the
CCPB and EIBB responsibility over the results of the project.

The First Deputy Chairman of the State Property Committee was the Chairman of the CCPB/EIBB
Supervisory Board, which apart from its Chairman, includes eight high-level officials (such as Deputy
Ministers and heads of Cabinet of Ministers' departments) which allows to provide constant monitoring
over the process and difficulties arising in course of the project implementation.

With the issuance of the Presidential Decree #3202 on January 24, 2003 and the number of Governmental
Resolutions, the work on privatization and increasing the role and significance of the private sector in the
economy was sharply activated. In particular, with the issuance of the Resolution of the Cabinet of
Ministries of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated #362 dated 21.08.2003 "On measures on increasing the role
and responsibility of the State Commission on carrying out tenders for the sale of state assets to foreign
investors", along with renewal of the membership composition of the Commission, its tasks and authorities
in the big enterprises' privatization processes were remarkably activated in Uzbekistan. In the monthly
meetings the Commission considers tender documents and makes decisions on the announcement of 3-4 big
enterprises privatization tenders, discusses the progress or results of already announced tenders or
negotiations with the selected winners.

5.3      Implementing Agency:
In spite slow start of the project implementation the Case-by-Case Privatization Bureau have done
considerable work to prepare the selected strategic enterprises for the privatization with the participation of
foreign investors. There were some difficulties in cooperation with the sectoral ministries, associations and
organizations in pushing forward the case-by-case privatization projects. In particular there was some
serious barriers in organizing associations and enterprises work with the selected financial advisors, in
agreeing their reports and applying their recommendation in practice. Despite of this, in most projects
(except Uzbekneftegaz) preparatory works were finalized in time and open tenders have been announced in
accordance with the State Tender Committee decisions. In completing all of these case-by-case
privatization procedures the CCPB was an important implementing agency, the activity of which can be
rated highly satisfactory.

5.3 Overall Borrower Performance:

The Government of Uzbekistan considers as an important measure the privatization of large-scale state
enterprises and therefore closely monitors the implementation of the case-by-case privatization projects. All
the main phases of the case-by-case privatization ­ beginning from technical assignment and selection of
financial advisors to tender documents approval and selection of privatization tender winners ­ are
monitored by the special Government body ­ the State Tender Committee, which consists of 17 high level
government officials.




                                                      - 54 -

In overall, the Cabinet of Ministries of the republic of Uzbekistan, the State Tender Committee and State
Property Committee highly professionally managed the implementation of the case-by-case privatization
projects, which results to mostly achievement of the EIBL objectives

6.       The World Bank Performance During the Evolution and Implementation of the Project
6.1.     Lending
Bank performance was highly satisfactory. The project design was ambitious. In spite of the fact that the
total amount was significantly overestimated, it was correctly estimated under the case-by-case component.
However, for some case-by-case privatization projects the projects, such as Oil and Gaz,
telecommunication and chemical sector enterprises privatization projects, the project life was life was too
short. In spite of the one-year prolongation, some of the projects were not finalized during the EIBL
Agreement validity period.

6.2.     Supervision
Bank supervision over the project implementation was satisfactory, especially in the areas of procurement
of consulting services. Each procurement process was closely coordinated with the Bank and corresponding
Procurement Evaluations Reports are submitted in time. In order to timely follow the procurement process,
each quarter the Bank reviewed procurement process monitoring reports and Contract expenditure reports.
On this basis the Bank provided advises on the project implementation process.

6.3.     Overall Bank Performance
The Bank performance was satisfactory. In the general Bank responses to the procurement related enquiries
were in time. The Bank's advices were valuable in resolving the problems arising in procurement processes.
During the project implementation process we have not faced with any major procurement plans that may
cause any serious delays in the project implementation process. The project did not receive any
procurement compliant in the past years.

The World Bank's procurement team has provided very effective and appropriate advise on procurement,
especially during the short listing and technical and financial proposals evaluation process.

The Bank played a key role in assisting the Government in developing policy related recommendation in
privatization large-scale enterprises, which are central to the economic reforms in Uzbekistan.




                                                     - 55 -

- 56 -

