                                               Uzbekistan
                  EnterpriseInstitutionBuilding Loan (LoanNo. 4353UZ)
                          Proposed Amendment to the Loan Agreement

 1. It is proposed to amend two of the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) of the EIBL, in
relation to the Privatization and Capital Market Components. The amendments entail the
narrowing down of the original project objectives for these two components, with a focus on
completing at least one successful sale of a large scale enterprise by the end of the extended loan
period, i.e. 31 December 2004, and on completing ongoing technical assistance being rendered to
the Securities Center within the Capital Markets Component.

2. The present PDO in relation to the Case-by-Case Privatization component reads as follows:
"The objectives of the project are to...(b) Support the Borrower's implementation of case-by-case
privatization to improve enterprise efficiency and attract foreign know-how and capital". It is
proposed to narrow and focus this PDO as follows: (b) "Support the Borrower's implementation
of case-by-case privatization to improve enterprise efficiency and attract foreign know-how and
capital, through (i) the preparation for privatization of at least ten (10)large scale enterprises; and
(ii) the sale of at least one (1) large scale enterprise."

3. The present PDO in relation to the Capital Markets Component reads as follows: "The
objectives of the Project are to...(c) Enhance effectiveness and widen public participation in
capital markets and protect shareholders." It is proposed to amend this PDO as follows: (c)
"Enhance effectiveness in the functioning of the capital markets, by improving access to and
facilitating the flow of information on issuers, turnover and prices."

4. The remainder of the PDOs remain unchanged.

Background

5. The EIBL Loan of US$28 million was signed on July 10, 1998, and had three main
components to support:

         (i)      post privatization advisory services,

         (ii)     case-by-case privatization of large and strategic enterprises and,

         (iii)    developing capital markets.

The Loan was closed on December 31,2003, with all PDOs and KPIs rated as unsatisfactory (See
Attachment 1)and an un-disbursed balance of US$ 20,017,978.35.

6. The Minister of Finance of Uzbekistan requested a one year extension of the closing date to
allow for completion of the ongoing case-by-case privatization transactions and the capital market
technical assistance program. In this request, the Government also requested to cancel US$17.6
million from the remaining balance. The Bank has decided to extend this loan, subject to the
approval of the amendment by the Executive Directors, to enable the pending transactions to
proceed.

7. The Government has provided a detailed proposal, including timetables, for completion of the
ongoing work. The proposed plan has the endorsement of the highest levels of the Government,

confirmed through a Cabinet of Ministers resolution and a decree signed by the President. Several
of the core strategic enterprises included in the original project have now been prepared for
privatization and in several cases tenders have either been launched or are imminent (see
Attachment 3). The Government's proposal focuses on the completion of these most advanced
privatization projects, as well as the component supporting the development of the capital
markets. With the cancellation of the remaining loan balance, no new state enterprises will be
prepared for privatization under the project. Moreover, activity under the post-privatization
advisory services component of the project will cease. The reduced scope of the project as
outlined in the Government's proposal and the extensive discussions with the client over the
period since their request has been received, provides a reasonable prospect for the successful
implementation of the revised proposal.

8. It has been agreed with the Government to amend the PDOs as set out in paragraph 3 above,
to bring them in line with what is feasible within current institutional capacity, the macro
economic environment and the remaining project activities. The Government has requested to

Performance Indicators (KPIs) have likewise been amended to reflect the more focused project
amend the Loan Agreement to reflect these changed PDOs (see Attachment 4). The Key
(see Attachments 2 and 4). These amended PDOs and KPIs also reflect achievements already
made under the project.      A draft letter which the Country Director will provide to the
Government, after this Memorandum has been approved, is also attached (see Attachment 5).

9. The risks identified in the Project Appraisal Document remain. However, with the more
narrowly focused objectives and the detailed action plan which has been agreed with the
Government, a reasonable basis has been established to manage the risks during completion of
the remaining activities. The action plan, which will form the basis for supervision of the project,
includes in respect to each of the activities, (i) the steps to be undertaken, (ii) the responsible
parties within the Government, and (iii) the relevant return dates. Monthly progress reports will
be submitted to the Bank, in addition to a more intensive supervision schedule.         Investment
banks or other international advisers are assisting the Government in respect to all the activities.
No new projects will be initiated.

                                                                                     Attachment 1

ProjectDevelopment Objectives(PDOs)and Key PerformanceIndicators (KPIs)

Project Development Objectives                   Key Performance Indicators

1. Improve efficiency of privatized enterprises. Successful implementation of 30 enterprise
                                                 restructuring plans by the end of the project
                                                 (reduced to 20 during mid-term review in May
                                                 2001).

                                                 Actual status at closing of the loan:

                                                 5 privatized medium-sized enterprises are
                                                 restructured. As discussed with the GoU and
                                                 reflected in earlier supervision reports, the
                                                 post-privatization restructuring component of
                                                 the project should be closed given the
                                                 difficulties experienced in implementing
                                                 restructuring plans. Restructuring of large-scale
                                                 enterprises remains an important objective and
                                                 outcome of the case-by-case privatization
                                                 component.

2. Support the GoU's implementation of case-     Sale of 7 large scale firms to strategic investors
by-case privatization to improve enterprise      by the end of the project (reduced to 5 during
efficiency, and attract foreign know-how and     mid-term review in May 2001).
capital.
                                                 Actual status at closing of loan:

                                                 There has not been a completed case-by-case
                                                 privatization of a large or strategic enterprise.
                                                 However, significant progress has been made
                                                 in preparing a total of 10enterprises for sale
                                                 through investment tender, with four tenders
                                                 announced and one launched (Attachment 3).
                                                 Moreover, restructuring within strategic
                                                 enterprises such as Uzbek Telecom and
                                                 Uzbekneftegas is ongoing with the assistance
                                                 of Commerzbank and BNP Paribas
                                                 respectively.

3. Enhance effectiveness and widen public     Increase in shares on the stock exchange,
participation in capital markets and protect  improved mechanisms for trade of securities
shareholders.                                 and more secure shareholder rights.

                                              Actual status at closing of loan:

                                              There have been some increase in share issues
                                              over the course of the loan, as well as recent
                                              issues of corporate bonds, but virtually no
                                              secondary market trading. Technical assistance
                                              to provide hard- and software to the Securities
                                              Center is ongoing, and therefore it is not yet
                                              possible to measure if the mechanisms for
                                              trading and shareholder protection have
                                              improved.

4. Strengthen the institutional capacity to   Stronger local private entrepreneurs and more
facilitate enterprise reform.                 foreign investment.

                                              Actual status at closing of loan:

                                              Several training sessions for local
                                              entrepreneurs have been conducted. Capacity
                                              to render advisory services has been created
                                              within the Enterprise Institution Building
                                              Bureau (EIBB), and in the State Property
                                              Committee more generally. However, it cannot
                                              be said that foreign investment has increased as
                                              a result this intervention, as the Private
                                              Investment Funds have not developed as
                                              envisaged.



Note: For proposed reduced PDOs and KPIs, please see Attachment 2.

                                                                                             Attachment 2

     The reduced PDOs and KPIs are proposed to be as follows:

2. Present Project Development Objective               Present Key Performance Indicator

 Support the GoU's implementation of case-by-          Sale of 7 large scale firms to strategic investors
 case privatization to improve enterprise              by end of project (reduced to 5 during mid-
 efficiency, and attract foreign know-how and          term review in May 2001).
capita1.


2. Proposed Reduced Project Development                Proposed Reduced Key Performance
Objective                                              Indicator

Support the GoU's implementation of case-by-           Sale of at least 1large scale enterprise to a
case privatization to improve enterprise               strategic investor by the end of the project.
efficiency, and attract foreign know-how and
capital, specifically through:

     (i)      the preparation for privatization of
              at least 10large scale enterprises;
              and,

     (ii)     the sale of at least 1 large scale
              enterprise.
3. Present Project Development Objective               3. Present Key Performance Indicator

Enhance effectiveness and widen public                 Increase in shares on the stock exchange,
participation in capital markets and protect           improved mechanisms for trade of securities
shareholders.                                          and more secure shareholder rights.

3. Proposed Reduced Project Development                3. Proposed Reduced Key Performance
Objective                                              Indicator

Enhance effectiveness in the functioning of the        Improved mechanisms for trade of securities,
:apital markets, by improving access to and            through successful installation of the soft- and
facilitating the flow of information on issuers,       hardware systems as set out in the Global
:urnover and prices.                                   Architecture Design (GAD) report dated June
                                                       2003, and the Plan of Actions (POA) dated
                                                       September 2003 (both as duly amended).'




 As this intervention is scheduled to be completed only at the end of the extended loan period, it will not
be possible to measure outcomes, apart from the successful installation of the system.


                                                                                 Attachment 3

Current Status of Ongoing Case-by-CasePrivatizationTransactions

1, To date, there has not been a completed privatization of a large or strategic enterprise.
However, important progress has been made in preparation for sale, and at present there are
10case-by-case privatization transactions in different stages of implementation:

     0  In respect to 8 of the enterprises (UzCable,Ammophos, Ahangarancement,
        KyzylkumCement, Uzmetkombinat,Kokand Spirit, Andijan Spirit,
        Elektrokhimprom, the tender has already been announced.

     0  In respect to 1 more (Navoiazot),the valuation report has been completed and the
        tender is expected to be announced in May 2004.

     0  In respect to Uzbektelcom, the audit report of Price Waterhouse Coopers was
        completed at the end of October 2003. The TA programs in relation to improvement
        of the legal environment, MIS and corporate strategy and business plan (funded by
        EBRD, ADB and the IFC) are still ongoing. The TA is expected to be completed in
        the second half of 2004. Simultaneously, Commerzbank is approaching potential
        investors to determine interest.

    0   In addition to the above 10 transactions, the diagnostic and restructuring work in the
        strategically important NHC "Uzbekneftegas is ongoing.
                                                      "



2. There are also several other positive developments, which warrant considering extending
the loan to complete the ongoing activities:

        The GoU has increased the percentage of Uzcable's shares offered for sale from 39
        percent to 64 percent (earlier this was done for Ammophos to 51 percent and for
        Uzbektelecom to 70 percent). This is a major achievement in the political context of
        Uzbekistan.

    0   The Cabinet of Ministers approved a Resolution #460 to implement one of the
        options recommended by the Investment Bank on the restructuring of Uzbekneftegaz.
       This is an important step towards the reform of this strategic sector.

    0  Three IFIs - EBRD, ADB and IFC - are funding TA for Uzbektelcom after which
       they will decide whether to make a pre-privatization investment (TA expected to be
       completed in the second half of 2004). Simultaneously, Commerzbank is
       approaching potential investors to determine interest. This, too, is a notable
       achievement in the telecommunications sector.


                                                                                          Attachment 4
                          On the letterhead of the Ministry of Finance
      NoMW08-02-07/98-1679                                                           12April 2004


Mr. Dennis De Tray
Regional Director
Europe and Central Asia
World Bank

Dear Mr. De Tray:

      Re: Enterprise Institution Building Project (EIBL),Amendments to Loan Agreement
        Herewith we propose to introduce amendments to the Loan Agreement, signed on July
10, 1998between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic
of Uzbekistan (Loan No 4353-UZ to implement Enterprise Institution Building Project). We note
that these amendments have been discussed and agreed between the World Bank and State
Property Committee (Goskomimushestvo) of the Republic of Uzbekistan earlier.

        In order to complete the works on active contracts on case-by-case privatization of large-
scale enterprises and on the project of capital market development we propose to introduce the
following amendments into the text of Loan Agreement for Enterprise Institution Building
Project:

        1. Paragraph 1of the Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is revised to read as follows:
        "Project objectives are the following: (a) to improve efficiency of privatized enterprises;
        (b) to assist in implementation of Borrower's policy in case-by-case privatization and to
        attract foreign know-how and capital through: (i) the preparation for privatization of at
        least ten (10) large-scale enterprises; and (ii) the sale of at least one (1) large scale
        enterprise to strategic investor by end of Project; (c) enhance effectiveness in capital
        markets functioning by improving access to and facilitating the flow of information on
        issuers, turnover and prices; and (d) strengthening institutional capacity to facilitate
        enterprises reform according to the Resolution".

        2. In the attachment to Additional Letter No2 the second and third paragraphs should be
            read as follows:
        Complete of ten (10) privatization plans and conclude a privatization contract from the
        Government side for at least one sale.
        Complete of systems' modernization for securities market by end of Project".

With best regards,

M.B. Nurmuratov
Minister for Finance


                                                                                                          Attachment 5

The World Bank                                                    1818 H Street N.W.             (202)477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT             Washington,D.C. 20433          Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                             U.S.A.                         Cable Address: INDEVAS

                                                                                      April 12, 2004


            Mr. Mamarizo Nurmurodov
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            Tashkent
            Republic of Uzbekistan


                          REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN:Enterprise Institution Building Project
                                                     (LoanNo. 4353 UZ)
                                             Amendments to the Loan Agreement
                         And to Supplemental Letter No. 2 re: Pe$ormance Monitoring Indicators


            Dear Mr. Minister:

                    We refer to the Loan Agreement (Enterprise Institution Building Project) dated July 10,
            1998, between the Republic of Uzbekistan (the Borrower) and the International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), as amended, and to Supplemental Letter No. Re:
           Performance Monitoring Indicators (Supplemental Letter No. 2) of the same date. We also refer
           to your letter dated April 12, 2004, requesting certain amendments to the Loan Agreement and
           to Supplemental Letter No. 2.

                    We hereby confirm the Bank's agreement to the following amendments.

            1.      In Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, the first paragraph is revised to read as follows:

                    "The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve efficiency of privatized enterprises; (b)
           support the Borrower's implementation of case-by-case privatization to improve enterprise
           efficiency and attract foreign know-how and capital through: (i) the preparation for privatization
           of at least ten (10) large scale enterprises; and (ii) the sale of at least one (1) large scale
           enterprise; (c) enhance effectiveness in the functioning of capital markets by improving access to
           and facilitating the flow of information on issuers, turnover and prices; and (d) strengthen the
           institutional capacity to facilitate enterprise reform, consistently with the Resolution."

           2.       In the Attachment to Supplemental Letter No. 2, the second and third bullets are revised
           to read as follows:

                    "Completion of ten (10) privatization plans and Government award of ten (10)
           privatization contracts with a view to completing at least 1privatization sale.

                    Completion of systems upgrading for the securities market by completion of the Project."

        Please confirm your agreement to these amendments by countersigning, dating and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. These amendments will become effective as of
the date of countersignature upon receipt of the countersigned copy of this letter by us.



                                            Sincerely,

                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCION
                                     AND DEVELOPMENT


                                    By:
                                         Dennis de Tray
                                              Director
                                Europe and Central Asia Region


AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN




By: Mamarizo Nurmurodov
Title: Minister of Finance


Date:

