Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17665-UZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN TH[E AMOUNT OF US$28.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
May 8, 1998
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECCOI Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange rate on March 26, 1998
Currency Unit = sum
I sum = US$ 0.0119
US$ I = 84.25 sum
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
COM - Cabinet of Ministers
CCPB - Case-by-Case Privatization Bureau
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIBB - Enterprise Institution Building Bureau
EIBL - Enterprise Institution Building Loan/Project
FSU - Former Soviet Union
GKI - State Property Committee
GOU - Government of Uzbekistan
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Agency
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF - International Monetary Fund
MOF - Ministry of Finance
OTC - Over The Counter Market
PIF - Privatization Investment Fund
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PPS - Post-Privatization Support
CSM - Center on Coordination of Functioning and Control of the
Securities Market (Securities Center)
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Ishrat Husain
Sector Director:    Lajos Bokros
Sector Leader:    Gerhard Pohl
Team Leader:   Itzhak Goldberg



PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
UZBEKISTAN
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Contents
A. Project Development Objective .....................................................................I
1. Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators .............................................I
B.  Strategic Context .....................................................................I
1. Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project ..................................................................1
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy .....................................................................                           2
3.  Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices .................                                   ........................4
C. Project Description  Summary  .....................................................................5
1. Project Components .....................................................................5
2. Key Policy an(I Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project ................................................6
3. Benefits and Target Population ....................................................................6
4. Institutional a               nd Implementation Arrangements ..................................................................... 6
D. Project Rationale ......................................................................9
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ................................                             ......................9
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies .............  10
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected  in Proposed  Project Design ..........................                               ......................... 10
4.  Indicators of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ..............................................................  11
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project ....................................................................     11
E.  Summary Project Analyses ...........                           .................. ..1..................................... 1
1. Economic ....................................................................                                                             11
2. Financial .................................................................... 12
3. Technical ....................................................................                                                           12
4. Institutional .................................................................... 12
5.  Social ........           ............................................................ 13
6. Environmental Assessment ....................................................................                                            13
7. Participatory  Approach ....................................................................                                             13
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks .....................................................................                                                     14
1. Sustainability .................................................................... 14
2. Critical Risks ....................................................................                                                      15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................................... 15



G. Main Loan Conditions ...........................                                           16
1. Conditions of Effectiveness ........................... 16
2. Positive Covenants ...........................                                      16
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................                                   18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................                                  19
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.     Country at a Glance
Map



UZBEKISTAN
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECCOl
Date: May 6, 1998                                   Team Leader: ltzhak Goldberg
Country Director: Ishrat Husain                     Sector Leader/Director: Gerhard Pohl/Lajos Bokros
Project ID: UZ-PE-55159  Sector: PSD                Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: TA                              Program of Targeted Intervention:   []  Yes  [x ] No
Project Financing Data               [x] Loan      [ ] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 28.0
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency    [x] Single currency
Grace period (years): 5           []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: NA
Financing plan (US$m): 28.0
Source                        Local            Foreign       Unalloc      Total
ated
Government                                        1.8               17.9                      19.7
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                              2.3              23.1           2.6         28.0
IDA
Total       4.1              41.0          2.6         47.7
Borrower: The Republic of Uzbekistan
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible Agencies: Cabinet of Ministers (COM), State Property Committee (GKI), Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/'US$):    1999   2000        2001       2002    2003
Annual 2.00      4.80        7.00       8.20    6.00
Cumulative 2.00      6.80        13.80      22.00   28.00
Project implementation period: 5 years  Expected effectiveness date: June 1998    Closing date: December 2003



A: PROJECT DEVELO]PMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Project Development Objectives               Key Performance Indicators
Improve efficiency of privatized enterprises.  Successful implementation of 30 of the
enterprise restructuring plans by end of project.
Support the Government's implementation of Case-  Sale of seven large scale firms to strategic
by-Case privatization to improve enterprise  investors by end of project.
efficiency, and attract foreign know-how and
capital.
Enhance effectiveness and widen public       Increase in trade of shares on the stock exchange,
participation in capital markets and protect  improved mechanisms for trade of securities and
shareholders.                                more secure shareholder rights.
Strengthen the institutional capacity to facilitate    Stronger local private entrepreneurs and more
enterprise reform.                           foreign investment.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17:376 UZ, discussed by the Board on February 19, 1998.
The Government of Uzbekistan (GOU) has been following a gradualist approach to reform: although
stabilization efforts have been relatively successful, liberalization of the trade and foreign currency
regime has been slow and erratic. In Autumn 1996, partly as a reaction to a particularly poor harvest of
cotton, its main export commodity, the GOU introduced multiple currency practices, foreign exchange
rationing, and trade restrictions. These measures have resulted in the IMF stand-by program approved in
December 1995 being declared off-track. The Enterprise Reform Loan, a policy-based loan of $180
million, focused on privatization, financial discipline and trade liberalization, was successfully
negotiated in September 1996 but has been on hold since the IMF stand-by went off track in November
1996.
The new CAS is designed to address the Government's concerns about the possible negative
consequences of reforms by demonstrating the benefits and results of policy and institutional reforms in
the context of pilot investment operations, and through continuing dialogue. The Bank believes that the
success of pilot operations, backed by intensified dialogue and technical assistance to build the capacity
for economic management, will demonstrate the benefits of reform and thereby provide a solid basis for
replicating these reforms throughout the economy. However, recognizing the risks involved in this
approach, the strategy has been designed with well-defined triggers to ensure links between Government
performance and further Bank engagement.
The planned strategy envisages three possible scenarios. The high case would include a new IMF
program combined with a strong program of structural reform and liberalization supported by IBRD
adjustment operations. A more likely outcome is an intermediate scenario in which the Government's
continued reservations about liberalization of trade and payments would preclude an agreement with the



2 -
IMF and/or lack of progress on structural reform fronts. Under this scenario, the Government would
maintain at least a modicum of macroeconomic stability (i.e., inflation less than 40 percent per annum
and a budget deficit of less than 3 percent), make substantial progress on selected sectoral and
institutional development issues, maintain fully satisfactory implementation performance, and continue
an active engagement on key structural reform issues. In this case, a series of pilot operations would
provide the main vehicle for delivering assistance to the Government.  These operations would
demonstrate the benefits of the key structural reforms (i.e., agricultural restructuring and privatization),
and support institutional development which would induce the Government to replicate these changes
across the economy. The Enterprise Institution Building Loan (EIBL) is a key component of this
scenario: utilizing the gradual and innovative approach to privatization through Privatization Investment
Funds; initiating a new case-by-case privatization program for large strategic enterprises as the
cornerstone for further industrial enterprise restructuring; and institutional building in the enterprise and
financial sector
Experience in other FSU countries has shown that rapid privatization and liberalization without prior
institution building (i.e., legal framework, regulatory commissions, securities registration, transparent
privatization mechanisms) may result in a public backlash against privatization. Therefore, we believe
that supporting local private entrepreneurs, in particular PIFs, and attracting foreign and local investors
by transparent methods is critical for strengthening the institutional capacity for liberalization and
reform.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Privatization has proceeded slowly since the adoption of the Law on Privatization of November, 1991.
Privatization of small scale enterprises was completed by 1995. The obstacles to enterprise restructuring
have been: (i) The labor collectives, together with the management of the privatized enterprises, hold
significant blocks of shares of most of the enterprises. As a result, the management culture and strategy in
these enterprises has not changed; (ii) Former ministries that were transformed into Associations still
control the strategy of enterprises; and (iii) The Government maintains a regime of dual exchange rates
with restrictions on access to foreign currency, trade barriers, and restrictions on cash withdrawals from
the banking system (the cash/non-cash regime).
Privatization of medium-scale enterprises has been considerably improved with Resolution No. 220 of the
Cabinet of Ministers (COM) "On Measures for Organization of the Activities of Investment Funds" of
June 18, 1996. This Resolution provides the framework for the program of privatization through wholly
private Privatization Investment Funds (PIFs) which issue shares and use the proceeds to purchase state
shares in enterprises offered in auctions.
Privatization of Medium-Scale Enterprises - The PIFs Program:
To date more than 50 PIFs have been licensed and around 25 of them are active in purchasing enterprise
shares and selling their shares to the public; some of them have turned out to be strong advocates of
private entrepreneurship. This is a considerable success because one of the critical goals of the program
was to attract a sufficient number of local private businessmen to invest in starting the business of
investment management. The PIFs have so far sold their shares to more than 100,000 citizens. Surveys
show that a large cross-section of the population has begun buying PIF shares as an investment for their
savings. In 1997-mid 1998, 18 auctions were held in which shares in just below 200 enterprises were sold
to PIFs. It should be noted that the PIFs are free to bid for shares in enterprises of their choosing and
these enterprises were selected out of the best medium-scale enterprises in Uzbekistan. Approximately 50
enterprises were offered in 1997 but were not bought by PIFs.



- 3 -
Recently, following the success of the initial phase of the PIFs program, amendments to Regulation 220
have been made. The most important changes are: (i) no individual shareholder in a PIF is allowed to
hold more than 10 percent of its shares, and; (ii) the decline in offer prices in auctions of enterprise shares
to PIFs will be limited to 50 percent of the "nominal" price, and no credit will be provided to PIFs when
the sale is below the nominal price. These amendments were discussed at length during Project
Appraisal. Point (i) was found to be acceptable; while negotiations regarding point (ii) have continued
after Appraisal with the Government remaining unwilling to change its position. It was agreed at
Negotiations that an acceptable version of Resolution No. 220, including an approved list of 200
enterprises whose shares can be sold to the PIFs, would be adopted by the COM as an Effectiveness
Condition.
Transparent Privatization of Large-Scale Enterprises:
The PIFs Program focused on the privatization of medium scale enterprises. There have been a few cases
of large-scale privatization but there has been no transparent program of large scale case-by-case
privatization.  Further progress in privatization of large enterprises is likely to require significant
participation of foreign investors who can bring international market access, management skills, capital
and technology. The transparency and competitiveness of such a process is critical for attracting foreign
and local private investment. Some of the enterprises that will be privatized have public monopoly
characteristics. These enterprises are typically subject to some form of regulatory control in other
economies because they are the sole suppliers in a particular market or have other powers to earn a rate of
return that is higher than in competitive markets. Until now such enterprises in Uzbekistan have operated
under full state ownership and the regulation was determined directly by the price and production
decisions of the state. Prior to a privatization sale bidders will want to know what form of regulation (if
any) will be applied once the enterprise is in private hands. The state will receive a higher price if there is
little regulation so that the enterprise is free to restrict supply and raise the price of its output. This,
however, may not be in the public interest. If the government fails to provide information about the post
privatization regulatory environment, no bids for the companies may be forthcoming or they may be
lowered by the need to compensate for uncertainty. Therefore, the government will need to undertake
some analysis of market conditions to make an informed judgment about the public need for regulation
and to avoid loss of potentiEal sale value.
Capital Markets and Shareholder Protection:
The PIFs Program is closely connected to capital markets development: it both depends on the functioning
of these markets and makes a major contribution to their development. The authorities are concerned
about the possibility of large investors manipulating small investors as they buy up shares in the PIFs.
Legitimate concerns about the rights of small investors are best addressed through the development of a
transparent secondary market which must include rules on obligations to disclose major acquisitions,
requirements for majority shareholders to offer to buy the shares of minority holders, as well as rules on
insider trading. This is the approach used in other markets. It avoids putting restrictions on demand
which would be detrimental to suppliers/owners, as lower demand will result in lower prices. It also
avoids putting constraints on the concentration of ownership which may be seriously detrimental to
corporate governance and enterprise restructuring.
Secondary market trading is best promoted by ensuring that all relevant information on listed enterprises,
securities market activity, and individual trades is made readily available to all market participants in a
timely manner. This may require imposing reporting requirements as well as installing systems on the
Stock Exchange which ensure that market participants have timely access to trading information. The
objective of this technical assistance is to provide the authorities with advice on the regulation of
securities markets commensurate with international practices.  Issues to be addressed will include
promotion of an active secondary market and the surveillance of secondary market trading.



- 4 -
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
Post-Privatization Advisory Services to Enterprises
Advisory services will focus on "defensive restructuring": re-orienting marketing strategy, improving
accounting practices, cost monitoring and reduction, financial management including cash-flow
management, human resource management, and legal and organizational structure. To ensure the impact
of the privatization on restructuring and growth of enterprises, it is essential that the PIFs and enterprise
managers be able to formulate and execute restructuring plans necessary to modify marketing strategies,
reduce costs, meet quality standards, and attract investors.
As a by-product of these activities, the capacity of the local consulting industry will be enhanced through
collaboration with international consulting firms. We expect this outcome because the project will
finance advisory services using pre-qualified local consultants and consortia of foreign and local
consultants. The individual restructuring efforts will be supported by a broad outreach program
consisting of workshops and various media presentations, designed to develop a better understanding of
the restructuring process among PIFs, enterprises and consultants, and to promote collaboration between
local and foreign consulting firms.
During Appraisal, the Government raised its concern that advisory services which are not complemented
by a credit line are ineffective and create false expectations. The Government argued that while the
project would provide advisory services, enterprises may in fact require investment funds through credit
lines. The Bank Team believes that, even in the absence of a supplementary credit line, advisory services
can fulfill an important role because restructuring will be accomplished through reorganization, asset
sales, and new marketing strategies which will not require major equity or credit investment. The
experience of similar projects in Moldova and Lithuania supports this view. As a compromise, it was
agreed with the Government that assistance will be focused towards privatized enterprises where
improvement in profitability can be achieved within the constraints of existing equipment and technology,
through management, organizational, accounting, financial, and marketing advisory services.
Experience show that difficulties encountered in restructuring often include the opposition of entrenched
management and labor collectives to downsizing, the lack of skills, the long time required for retraining,
and the lack of finance. Given these constraints on restructuring, it is expected that only 30 of the 75
plans initiated under the project will be successfully completed.
Privatizatioin of Large-Scale Enterprises
To privatize the larger enterprises that need sales to strategic investors and/or share placements, there
must be adequate information provided about the enterprises being offered for sale so that the process is
open and clear. This means that, to the greatest extent possible, valuations must be made using
acceptable, market based methods, financial information must be developed in a manner consistent with
GAAP, and disclosures must be made in a way consistent with best commercial practices. In addition,
sales offerings of companies must be adequately publicized and potential investors identified and
approached directly. These prerequisites of a successful privatization effort indicate that the participation
of foreign financial advisors is critical. Input from local advisors is also important for interpretation of
existing laws, commercial practices and market and economic conditions. A collaborative approach that
uses both local and foreign advisors will enhance local consulting capacity and help develop local-foreign
partnerships.



Evidence from other countries strongly indicates that the use of reputable international financial advisors
(preferably investment or merchant banks) through all stages of a company's privatization is critical in
attracting high quality buyers. Such financial advisors are able to generate much more in sales proceeds
than they require in fees and will provide the leadership for successful sales. Accordingly, under this
project component, foreign financial advisors will be engaged for each privatization candidate to: (i)
undertake a quick assessnnent of the privatization candidate's general privatization potential, do the
privatization feasibility study phase (valuation and development of privatization options) and the
privatization planning phase (method of sale, sales plan, timeline and communications); and (ii)
undertake the privatization transaction or sale.
Experience shows that in imany cases the authorities decide not to continue after phases one and two
because the government is not satisfied with the valuation potential sale price, is not willing to modify
the regulatory environment, or is not ready to accept the conditions of the foreign strategic buyers.
Therefore, we assume that out of the 18 cases initiated, only seven will be sold during the five years that
the project is in operation.
Capital Market Development
Secondary market trading is best promoted by ensuring that all relevant information on listed enterprises,
securities market activity, and individual trades is made readily available to all market participants in a
timely manner. This may require imposing reporting requirements as well as installing systems on the
Stock Exchange which enable market participants to have timely access to trading information.
As transparency is vital to promoting the secondary market, this component will include a review of the
current systems for gathering and disseminating information on the: (a) listing and quoting of shares; (b)
issuers (their activities, financial data, etc.); (c) security market information (turnover, prices, principal
shareholders); and (d) trading in individual issues (prices, bids and offers). Proposals will be made for
improvements, including associated costs and possible funding. Given the considerable investments
already undertaken in development of the market infrastructure, emphasis will be placed on building on
current facilities.
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project Components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                Category       Cost Incl.     % of    Bank-         % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
___                   (USS)    financing
Post Privatization Advisory         consulting              15.5  32.5%         13.4      47.9%
Services                             services
goods                  0.7   1.5%         0.1        0.4%
Case-by-case Privatization          consulting              25.4  53.2%          8.9      31.8%
services
goods                  1.1   2.3%         0.6        2.1%
Capital Markets                     consulting
services                1.6   3.4%         1.6        5.7%
goods                  0.8   1.7%         0.8        2.9%
Unallocated Balance                                          2.6   5.5%          2.6       9.3%
Total                47.7  100.0%        28.0     100.0%



-6 -
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
*  The post-privatization component will support enterprise reform by building institutional capacity
for restructuring through a new Enterprise Institution Building Bureau (EIBB) that will provide a
demonstration effect showing that restructuring can be done, and by developing the local consulting
industry.
*  The case-by-case privatization component will build the capacity to privatize large and complicated
enterprises transparently, introduce large foreign investment banks to the Uzbek business
environment which may provide feedback to policy makers about necessary changes, and provide
invaluable experience to local consultants who will work with the investment banks.
*  The capital markets development component will support the further development of the Securities
Center, the Stock Exchange, and the National Depository. Four sub-components are:
(a) securities market regulation and investor protection;
(b) assistance in supporting secondary trade in securities;
(c) technical upgrade of the national depository; and
(d) training.
3. Benefits,and Target Population:
Benefits
*  Faster growth and more efficient resource allocation through enterprise restructuring and
transfer of know-how and capital by foreign and local investors.
*  Increased revenue from sales and more foreign direct investment through privatization.
X  Wider public participation in capital markets through the PIFs Program, and as a result, in
the longer term, deeper and more liquid capital markets.
Target Population
*  Shareholders will enjoy the benefits stemming from increased foreign investment, and the
enhanced earnings and growth potential that more efficient production technology and
increased investment will allow.  They will also benefit from  increased shareholder
protection and improved capital markets.
*  Employees of privatized enterprises will benefit from working for financially stronger and
more productive enterprises that can invest, grow, and offer better quality jobs.
*  Dornestic savers will have a richer choice of vehicles for saving and investing and, in the
long run, will enjoy increased returns.
*  Local consultants will benefit directly from  involvement in the project and from the
opportunity to collaborate with foreign firms.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
Overall Project Structure. The project has three main components. Two new Bureaus, the Enterprise
Institution Building Bureau (EIBB) and the Case-by-Case Privatization Bureau (CCPB) will be
established as the implementing agencies for the post-privatization and privatization components
respectively. The EIBB will also serve as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Capital Markets
component. These Bureaus will be supervised and controlled by a Supervisory Board consisting of
representatives of GKI, MOF, and the COM. The sustainability of these Bureaus is an important
objective of the proposed loan as they are expected to continue their respective tasks well beyond the



-7 -
closing date of the project. The Bureaus will act as PIUs for the EIBL and will be responsible for
ensuring that contracts are formulated in a manner consistent with World Bank guidelines, for
documenting project finances, and for providing information necessary for project reporting and
supervision.
Post-Privatization Support. The EIBB will be co-founded by the GKI and the MOF. It will be an
autonomous, non-commercial, public organization. The EIBB will channel the funds provided under the
EIBL in support of post-prilvatization restructuring advisory services, and it will act as the PIU for this
specific component of the loan. Accordingly, a Project Implementation Agreement describing the role
and authority of the EIBB should be signed between the MOF and the Bureau before it can start utilizing
the funds borrowed by the GOU.
The organizational structure of the EIBB will be as follows:
Supervisory Board
Director
2 Project Managers
4 Consultants
Financial Manager
Accountant
One Support'Staff
Legal Advisor
Administration/Support Staff
- Procurement Officer
The Bureau will be staffed with local staff and will be assisted by one resident foreign advisor. The staff
of the EIBB should be selected on the basis of high quality professional skills and hands-on experience in
providing a general range of-business, management, and financial advisory services to small and medium
sized enterprises.
The Government shall provide a contribution in kind to the Bureau in the form of adequate premises.
Required capital investment (office furniture, computer equipment, and vehicles) will be funded from the
IBRD loan, according to a budget jointly agreed between the Government and the Bank.
Case-by-Case Privatization. For the privatization component of the project, GKI will establish an
independent CCPB and will appoint a Director, acceptable to the Bank, to head the Bureau.
Accordingly, a Project Implementation Agreement describing the role and authority of the Bureau should
be signed between the MOF and the Bureau before it can start utilizing the funds borrowed by the GOU.
Through the CCPB, the Government will hire international investment bankers using open and
competitive tenders consistent with the "World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants". The
criteria for selection of international investment bankers will be that the firm: (i) has been the lead
advisor to Government in at least 10 successful case-by-case privatizations with receipts of at least USD
10 million each; and (ii) the reputation of the firm is of a high standard, as judged by the Bank. The
terms of reference of the investment banker will cover three phases beginning with an initial quick
review of the enterprise (phase 1). If the review is negative, the assignment will terminate and no more
work will be billed. If the review is positive, the same investment banker will carry out a valuation and
develop a privatization strategy (phase 2) and, finally, undertake to sell the company on behalf of the
Government (phase 3). The Bank loan will be used to pay the fixed fees of the investment bankers and
other experts, such as lawyers, industry specialists, and auditors, in phases I and 2. The fees for phase 3
will be paid from the proceeds of the sale.



- 8 -
The organizational structure of the CCPB will be as follows:
-  Supervisory Board
-  Director
- Senior Adivisor
-  Executives-privatization team leaders
-  Senior officers for privatization teams
-  Office/Financial Manager
-  Administration/support staff
-  Procurement Officer
The Bureau will be staffed with local staff and will be assisted by one resident foreign advisor. The staff
of the CCPB should be selected on the basis of high quality professional skills and business experience
or training.
The Govermrlent shall provide a contribution in kind to the Bureau in the form of adequate premises.
Required capiital investment (office furniture, computer equipment and vehicles) will be funded from the
IBRD loan, according to a budget jointly agreed between the Government and the Bank. The
Government will also provide substantial funding from the sales receipts from privatization through the
fees it will pay investment bankers and other professionals.
The three-phase case-by-case privatization process will be monitored and reviewed by the Bank, as
follows:
*  Phase 1: the report of the investment banker on the quick assessment;
*  Phase 2: the report of the investment banker on the valuation of the company, the options for sale
and the recommended sales option; and
*  Phase 3: the sales process recommended by the investment bank and adopted by the Government;
the criteria of selection for a winning tender as developed by the investment banker and adopted by
the Government; and the evaluation of the tender offers with the Government's reasons for selection
of a winning bidder. In the case of privatizations involving share placement, the sales plan and
pricing scheme developed by the financial advisors will also be monitored and reviewed.
Capital Market Development. This component of the project is designed to support the further
development of the Securities Center, the Stock Exchange, and the National Depository.
The principal counterparts to each sub-component will be:
(a) The Securities Center with responsibility for regulation of securities markets,
(b) The Stock Exchange and OTC market participants,
(c) The National Depository,
(d) The Securities Center as coordinator for training for all market participants.
Project activities will include technical assistance and computer hardware and software which will be
entirely funded from the IBRD loan according to a budget jointly agreed between the Government and
the Bank. Contracting and reporting functions of this component of the project will be managed by the
EIBB.
In designing lprocurement arrangements for the assistance to be provided under this component, it will be
desirable to avoid fragmentation. To ensure serious interest and professionalism from consultants in this
area, foreign technical assistance will be presented as one contract for international tender.



-9-
The Supervisory Board will be responsible for coordinating all activity under this component, and
ensuring cooperation between the Bureaus and the consultants. The EIBB will be responsible for the
day-to-day implementation of the component. This will involve engaging consultants to design a
detailed strategic implementation plan which clearly identifies the needs (equipment and services) of the
Center, the National Depository, and the Stock Exchange. The EIBB will seek the Bank's approval of
the strategic implementation plan and solicit bids for a contract for the provision of the necessary
equipment and services.
Finance. Accounting and Auditing Arrangements. Finance, Accounting and Auditing Arrangements.
The EIBB and CPCB will act as PIU's for the project and will maintain the project accounts. The MOF
will appoint a financial manager who will prepare a financial management plan for the project. This plan
will be reviewed by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Prior to loan effectiveness the
auditor will offer an opinion stating that financial management plan conforms with the Bank guidelines
as expressed in OP 10.02 and BP 10.02.
In the past, financial statements and audit reports for the Cotton Improvements Project were complied
after a three month delay. However, the project accounts and audit reports for the Policy and Human
Resources Development Fuind were submitted to the Bank on schedule and were satisfactory. GKI, the
Government department sponsoring the EIBP, has been the executing agency for the Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
the EIBB and the CBC will submit to the Bank each year audited project financial statements not later
than six months from the end of the fiscal year. The audit will be undertaken in accordance with
international standards on auditing and will be financed from the loan.
Reporting Arrangements. Bi-annual progress reports will be prepared by the principle counterparts for
each of the three project conmponents. The format of the reports will be mutually agreed upon prior to the
first submission six months after project effectiveness.
Implementation Completion Report. The PIUs will prepare in conjunction with the Bank an ICR upon
completion of the Project and not later than six months after final distribution of the Loan proceeds.
Included in the ICR will be an assessment of the execution and initial operation of the project, costs and
benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved
in the Project in their respective obligations and accomplishments, and lessons learned.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out in the
following areas: (a) procurements of goods and services; (b) financial management and use of project
resources; and (c) progress towards project objectives. The evaluation will be made with reference to the
key Performance Indicators (that were agreed at Negotiations), and project outcomes will be evaluated in
terms of the progress on privatization, successful restructurings, and improvements to capital markets.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project Alternatives Cons idered and Reasons for Rejection:
The main alternative to this project is to withhold assistance in the area of private sector development
altogether pending further liberalization of the foreign currency and trade regime.
The Team believes that this alternative should be rejected for the following reasons:
Rejecting the project will jeopardize some of the significant advances already made in capital
markets development through the PIFs Program. The Program is at a critical juncture and needs the



- 10-
support that this loan will provide. Without this support, momentum will be lost and the confidence
of the private sector (both domestic and foreign) in the permanence of the reforms and new
institutions supporting privatization will be undermined.
* Successful restructuring and revenue from case-by-case privatization with foreign participation will
increase the support within the Government encouraging reform in other areas and will improve the
financial strength, productivity, competitiveness, and investment levels of Uzbekistan's larger firms.
*  Supporting local private entrepreneurs, in particular PIFs, and attracting foreign investors by
transparent privatization methods is critical for encouraging reform by strengthening the institutional
capacity for liberalization and reform.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies (completed,
ongoing, planned):
Sector issue                          Project                Latest Form 590 Ratings
IP            DO
Advisory services                      Lithuania - Enterprise and            HS             S
Financial Sector Project
(PE8536)
Post privatization restructuring       Moldova - Private Sector             HS              HS
Development I (PE 8561)
Post privatization restructuring       Moldova - Private Sector              S              S
Development II (PE3581 1)
Case-by-case privatization             Bolivia - Capitalization Program      S             HS
(BO-PE-6173)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design:
* The establishment of a highly-qualified locally-staffed unit, with strong leadership, proved
successful both in Lithuania and in Moldova. To build on some of this experience, the Director
of the Lithuanian Advisory Services Group CONSULTA Ltd. has participated in the Appraisal
and will help establishing the EIBB.
* Bank staff with extensive experience in organizing and managing case-by-case privatization
programs in government will help establish the CCPB.
* The experience of other transition economies will be used as demonstration through visits to
other ]FSU/EE countries, and use of consultants from these countries.
* The Moldovan experience shows that non-investment restructuring should precede external
financing and that typically, after restructuring, enterprises did not want external financing.
However, ex ante, this message is least acceptable to enterprise managers and officials. Also, in
Lithuania, although a credit line was available along with the advisory services, many
enterprises used the advisory services without the credit.



4. Indicators of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
The GOU has shown its commitment to the PIFs program by implementing the program in spite of the
fact that the Enterprise Reform Loan, under which it was designed, has been put on hold. The GOU has
established the Securities Center under the leadership of First Deputy Chairman Abdukadirov in April
1996 and supported the development of the program ever since, notwithstanding disagreements with the
Bank about same aspects of program implementation. The Center has become a focal point for capital
markets development in Uzbekistan and has attracted significant support from TACIS and other donors.
In a letter to Mr. Wolfensohn dated October 22, 1997 President Karimov expressed its support for the
PIFs Program.
COM Resolution "On implementing a program of cooperation with the IBRD" dated October 2, 1997
confirms the requested anmount (USD 28 million) and objectives of the project: support of privatized
enterprises through PIFs, case by case privatization of large enterprises, improvement of the depository
system and development of the stock exchange.
5. Value Added of Bank Siupport in this Project:
The Bank has been deeply involved in the design and development of the PIFs program and is uniquely
positioned to support the activities needed to ensure their continued success. Post-privatization support
is critical to ensure that privatization in fact leads to increased efficiency of the enterprise sector and
thereby to growth. The 'Bank has gained experience in the supporting similar efforts in other FSU
countries such as Lithuania and Moldova.
In case-by-case privatization, the Bank can bring significant value added to the privatization process.
While investment bankers have the skills to value and sell companies, the management of the
privatization process, including the management of needed investment bankers, falls to the Government.
Through helping the GOlLJ establish the CCPB to undertake and manage the privatization process,
helping staff it, and proviiding it and the Government with "hands-on" advice from Bank staff with
significant experience in case-by-case privatization, the Bank will help ensure that the program is
established and the Government equipped with the tools to undertake successful privatizations of large
state-owned firms.
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: (i) The potential benefit of restructuring is increased value of the enterprise or
Higher Net Present Value (NPV) of its net cash flow. As NPV is hard to quantify, a switching value was
completed as follows: $200,000 project will raise the sales of an enterprise by at least 15 percent, the
project will break even (see appendix 4); (ii) An abundance of evidence indicates that there are factor-
productivity and cost-efficiency gains from privatization in formerly socialist economies. Some case
evidence also suggests that employment in privatized firms is more likely to climb following
privatization, especially in firms manufacturing primarily for export and natural monopolies (like four of
the companies selected for the case-by-case program).
Cost Effectiveness Analysis: For case-by-case privatization, international experience shows that the use
of reputable investment bankers increases privatization proceeds more than their cost. They have the
market experience and contacts to enable them to accurately value and sell firms that will be sold, in
part, to foreign investors. In fact, many investors are not interested in participating in the sales of
significant companies that are undertaken by unqualified financial agents because of the risk that the sale
will not be transparent and fair, or the offering memoranda will be defective.



- 12 -
For capital markets development, improvements in supervision and transparency of trading and
registration systems are considered best-practice to achieve shareholder protection, and to increase the
contribution of capital markets to growth.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Financial analysis of privatization or restructuring will differ from economic analysis as prices do not
reflect border prices. In each privatization case, international investment banks will conduct a feasibility
analysis based on international prices and evaluate the effect of the distortions on the project. In the
restructuring projects, the EIBB will select enterprises which are less affected by price controls and
currency restrictions (see appendix 4).
At the project level, the design of the Bureaus must ensure sound financial management to facilitate
implementation. During the first year of operation, the operating costs of the EIBB (salaries, office
supplies) vvill be fully funded from the IBRD loan, according to a budget jointly agreed between the
Government and the Bank. EIBB will recover from the beneficiary enterprises 25 percent of the total
advisory services costs paid to the consultants. The proceeds collected from the contribution of the
beneficiary enterprises will be used to cover the EIBB's operating costs. This financing arrangement
will provicle a strong incentive to the EIBB to remain lean and efficient, and to ensure that it delivers
services that the beneficiary enterprises will be willing to pay for because they find them to be of high
professional quality and they demonstrably produce positive results.
International experience, particularly experience from Hungary, Germany and Estonia, all of which had
effective privatizations agencies that carried out transparent and rapid sales, suggests that attracting top-
flight stafi' is key. To do this, the Bureau will be able to offer competitive salaries, that are not
constrained by the government's civil service salary structure, and also the Bureau has some
permanence.
Fiscal Impact: In the long term, successful restructuring of the medium enterprises should contribute to
budget revenues through increased taxes from increased profits. In the medium term, case-by-case
privatization should increase the profitability of the large enterprises due to restructuring by the strategic
buyer. In the short term, privatization proceeds, which we estimate to be, on average, USD $30 million
per company sold, are an extra-budgetary revenue item which should decrease the need for extemal
borrowing. In the medium term, these privatized enterprises will pay more taxes to government,
increasing government revenues, and government will be free of potential future liabilities for any losses
made by the firm.
3. Technical:
The technical resources provided under this project consist of the hardware and software under the
capital markets development component and amount to less than 5 percent of total project cost. These
resources will be provided in tandem with the consulting services which are designed to improve capital
market performance and which are the main thrust of that component. Technical requirements for
hardware and software are being assessed by Danish consultants who reviewed the needs of the National
Depository and the Stock Exchange.
4. Instituiional:
Executing Agencies: Both the Privatization and t!-e Post-privatization components of this project
involve activities that are new in nature and in scope. It was felt that existing agencies within the
government would be constrained by regulations and historical practice to a degree which might
compromise project effectiveness. It was, therefore, essential to establish autonomous, non-commercial,



- 13 -
public agencies for project execution. These agencies are free of civil service hiring and salary
regulations. They can be staffed with technically competent individuals. They will have the scope to
contract with foreign and local consultants who have appropriate expertise, and will be able to operate
without undue influence. There is an important institution building component to the project because the
EIBB will last beyond the end of the project and it is appropriate for the purposes of sustainability and
self-funding that the EIBB be established as an entity separate from existing governmental institutions.
Since these are new institutions it is critical that their role, structure, and responsibilities be clearly
defined. For that reason., staffing and supervision structures have been specified and the COM
Resolution necessary to establish the Bureaus was signed as a condition of Negotiations.
5. Social:
The PIFs program supports wider public participation in capital markets and its public relations
campaign has a positive effect on the public awareness of market economics. Enterprise restructuring
may require layoffs, however, the socially negative impact of layoffs is expected to be minor as the
unemployment rate in Uzbekistan is still very low.
6. EnvironmentalAssessment:         Environmental Category       []A   [ B    [X] C
Investment banks will be required to include, as part of their advisory work, environmental assessments
where required.
7. Participatory Approach
Preparation         Implementation           Operation
IS/CON/COL             IS/CON                IS/CON
Primary beneficiaries
PIFs                          IS/CON                  IS/CON               IS/CON/COL
PIF enterprises               IS/CON                  IS/CON               IS/CON/COL
PIF investors                 IS/CON                  IS                   IS
GKI/MOF                       IS/CON/COL              IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL
Securities Exchange           IS/CON/COL              IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL
Depository                    IS/CON/COL              IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL
Other key stakeholders
Enterprise managers           IS/CON                  IS/CON               IS/CON
Enterprise workers            IS                      IS                   IS
Taxpayers                     IS                      IS                   IS
Investors and savers          IS                      IS                   IS
Classify as IS (Information sharing), CON (Consultation), and/or COL (Collaboration)
The design and regulation of the PIFs, the enabling legislation for them, the selection of firms to be made
available for PIF investment, and the implementation of the PIF program were all accomplished as a
result of extensive collaboration between the Bank, the Government, PIF fund founders, and PIF fund
investors. The post privatization services offered to PIF enterprises under the EIBL will continue this
process. The Technical Assistance provided to the PIF enterprises will be negotiated between the PIF
enterprise and the EIBB.  This process involves the explicit collaboration of the PIF enterprise
management, the PIF funds (through their representation on the enterprise board), and the EIBB.
Information sharing will involve PIF investors and enterprise workers. The GKI and the MOF will have
a direct collaborative input via their participation in the Supervisory Board of the EIBB.



- 14 -
The privatization component was designed through extensive collaboration between the Bank, GKI and
MOF. The Government initially identified 18 potential privatization candidates. The Appraisal team
visited 1:2 of these enterprises to evaluate their privatization potential. In the drafting of privatization
assessments and the full privatization plans, the financial advisors will have a collaborative relationship
with GKI and a consultative relationship with management. The impact on worker interests will be
evaluated by the financial advisors as part of the process of determining the probable needs for, and
impediments to, labor adjustment.
Other key stakeholders include investors in general. Their interests include improved shareholder
protection, under the Capital Markets component, as well as the development of the secondary market in
securities, new disclosure requirements, the prevention of insider trading and similar initiatives, all of
which, constitute a form of information sharing. Similarly, the privatization of large corporations will
open new opportunities for investors and, to the extent the large foreign strategic investors participate,
there will be improvements to corporate governance, management, and technical efficiency that will
enhance returns to local investors. The privatization proceeds will have a direct impact on government
revenues relieving pressure on taxpayers in general.
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Suslainability:
This project is designed to demonstrate the benefits of restructuring and case-by-case privatization to
enterprise managers, GOU officials, and foreign and local investors. A few successful cases of
restructuring following useful advisory services will help in convincing officials, PIFs, and enterprise
managers in the utility of consulting services and the feasibility of restructuring. The EIBB will be
designed to be a permanent institution providing advisory services on a commercial basis. The CCPB
will provide the Government with institutional competence for case-by-case privatizations on an ongoing
basis.
Building the capacity of the local consulting industry will ensure that these cases are replicable in many
other enterprises.
The know-how and management skills acquired from foreign investors and advisors as part of case-by-
case privatization will contribute to sustainability.
Building the regulatory capacity through the establishment of the Commission for Securities Markets
Supervision will provide for sustainable capital markets development.



- 15 -
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex J):
Risk                      Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
(Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective")
1. Non-sustainable Institution building       M            1. Local staffing of the Bureaus will
ensure continuity and skill acquisition
1.1 Post-Privatization: Acceptance of advisory   M         1.1 Careful selection of enterprises;
services and execution of restructuring plans.             co-financing by enterprises.
1.2 Payment of 25 percent of cost of                       1.2 The Bureau will pay consultants
restructuring services by enterprises         S            and collect fees from enterprises
2.1 Transparency of case-by-case privatization  H          2.1 Competitive selection of reputable
investment banks; positive covenant
not allowing share redistribution prior
to sale
2.2 Retention of investment banks for the phase S          2.2 Loan covenant - IBRD withdraws
3 sale.                                                    if Banks are not retained
2.3 Interest of strategic investors           M            2.3 Good privatization candidates -
condition of Negotiations; reputable
investment banks selected
(Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs")
1.2 Capacity of local consulting industry    M             1.2 The Bureau will conduct training,
study tours, and have foreign advisors
2.1 Interest of investment banks              S            2.1 Good privatization candidates are
selected - fixed fees paid from loan
and success fee from sale proceeds
Overall Risk Rating S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                      Type of  Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
Commitment to liberalization                  G        H             Building institutional capacity will
reduce the fears within the GOU of
rapid "uncontrolled" reform; by
strengthening the private sector the
project bolsters the constituency for
liberalization.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



- 16 -
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Conditions of Effectiveness
a) The CoM will adopt a resolution, including a list of 200 enterprises whose shares can be sold to PIFs,
acceptable to the Bank, amending its Resolution No. 220 of June 18, 1996.
b) Project implementation agreements will be agreed and signed between the MOF and GKI and the
CCPB and the EIBB.
c) The MOF will appoint a financial manager who will prepare a financial management plan.
2. Positive Covenants:
a) The Borrower will refrain from changing the share structure or selling or otherwise distributing the
shares of the companies proposed for the case-by-case privatization program until the investment
bank involved proposes a change in the structure or a sale as part of the privatization plan.
b) The MOF and GKI will enter into project implementation arrangements, with the PIU through which
the implementation of the Project shall be entrusted to the PIUs as follows: The post privatization
restructuring activities and the activities of the capital market development components will be
carried out by EIBB, and the case-by-case privatization activities will be carried out by the CCPB.
The MOF and GKI will cause the Project Implementation Agencies to carry out their respective parts
of the Project under the PIUs in accordance with an agreed Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
c) The MOF and GKI will maintain EIBB and CCPB with an adequate number of qualified and
experienced staff, acceptable to the Bank, and provide them with such funds, facilities, and other
resources as may be required for the implementation of their respective parts of the Project.
d) EIBB will select enterprises for providing assistance under the Project that have been designated by
the Borrower for investment by PIFs, or based, inter alia, on the following criteria:
*  small and medium-sized enterprises which are majority owned or controlled by shareholders other
than the Borrower or any person (including corporate entities) representing the interest of the
Borrower or any entities majority owned or controlled by the Borrower;
*  enterprises with 30 percent of the shares that are either owned or controlled by outside shareholders;
*  enterprises that are willing to enter into an agreement with the EIBB to collaborate with consultants
and pay a 25 percent share of the costs of their advisory services;
*  enterprises whose improvements in profitability can be achieved initially, within the constraints of
existing equipment and technology, through management, organizational, accounting, financial and
marketing improvements;
*  enterprises that are not subject to control by State Associations as regards their inputs and outputs
(such as price control, restrictions on sales, dependence on monopoly state-owned supplier).



- 17-
e) EIBB will also:
*  estimate the costs of advisory services of consultants for each case and have the same approved by
the Bank;
*  enter into contracts, on behalf of the Borrower, with the beneficiary enterprises and consultants on
terms and conditions aLgreed by the Bank, including the following: EIBB will be responsible for
direct payment of 100 percent of the fees and expenses of the advisory services to the consultants
selected for the assignrnent. EIBB will, unless otherwise agreed by the Supervisory Board, recover
from the beneficiary enterprises 25 percent of the total advisory services costs paid to the
consultants. The proceeds collected from the contribution of the beneficiary enterprises may be used
to cover the EIBB's operating costs. If the proceeds collected from the beneficiary enterprises are
not sufficient to cover the EIBB's operating costs, the MOF and GKI will provide the necessary
funds to cover the remaining portion of the costs;
*  engage consultants to assist in designing a detailed, strategic implementation plan which clearly
identifies the needs of the Securities Center, the National Depository, and the Stock Exchange, and a
well-coordinated time plan for the provision of the required equipment and services to them;
*  seek the Bank's approval of the strategic implementation plan described above and solicit bids for a
contract for complete equipment and services to be supplied under the Capital Markets component of
the project. If it is found expedient by the Borrower and the Bank to execute a separate contract for
computer hardware and software, the EIBB will take responsibility for ensuring that the provision of
advisory and computer support services is closely coordinated with the procurement of equipment.
f) The Supervisory Board, will act as coordinator and ensure cooperation among the Securities Center,
the National Depository, and the Stock Exchange.
g) CCPB will select large-scale enterprises for privatization under the Project in accordance with
criteria agreed with the Bank. A list of six enterprises to be privatized in the first "wave" was agreed
at Negotiations. Details on these enterprises can be found in Annexes 2 and 4. It was also agreed
that the Borrower will provide an additional five new enterprises to privatize under the Case-by-Case
component by the end of each year.
h) CCPB will also:
*  engage a senior privatization advisor to assist in organizing the tenders and other related activities in
the case-by-case transactions; as well as engage a senior legal advisor to assist in negotiating
contracts (and providing other legal advice relating to the transactions) between the Borrower and
investment banks selected for the case-by-case privatization transactions.
*  select an international investment bank on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank, including the
following: (1) the investment bank has been the lead advisor to various governments in at least five
successful case-by-case privatizations with receipts of at least $25 million each; and (2) the
reputation of the investment bank is of a high standard, as mutually agreed by the Bank and the
Borrower;



- 18-
*  engage the investment bank, under terms of reference and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, to undertake a three stage privatization process on behalf of the selected enterprises which
includes the following. The contract with the chosen investment bank will cover all three phases,
including the sale. (If, without just cause, the Borrower/CCPB chooses to terminate its contract with
the investment banker and use other financial advisors not acceptable to the Bank, the Bank may
suspend further disbursements under the case-by-case program financed by the EIBL. The Bank
may also choose to have the fees paid to the investment bank under the loan reimbursed).
*  submit reports to the Bank in three phases that include, respectively, the report of the Investment
Bank on its initial evaluation of the potential for privatization of the selected enterprises (Phase 1);
the report of the investment bank on the valuation of the selected enterprises, the options for its sale,
and the recommended sales option (Phase 2); and the sales process for the selected enterprises
recommended by the investment bank and adopted by the Borrower, including the criteria for
selection for a winning tender as developed by the Investment Bank and adopted by the
Borrower/CCPB, the evaluation of the tender offers, and the Borrower's reasons for selection of a
winning bidder (all Phase 3).
*  engage regulatory advisers, with the prior written consent of the Bank, in case selected enterprises
are monopolies or in strategic sectors, to separately to examine and report on regulatory questions
prior to a possible privatization sale.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
The project design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
* The CoM will adopt a resolution, including a list of 200 enterprises whose shares can be sold to PIFs,
acceptable to the Bank, amending its Resolution No. 220 of June 18, 1996
* The appointment of a financial manager to prepare a financial management plan
*  Detailed project implementation arrangements (PIAs) for the implementing agencies
However, signiificant progress has already been made on these three items. Resolution No. 220 has
already been substantially amended (a draft of these amendments were included in the annexes to the
Negotiations minutes), and now needs to be approved by the COM. The Terms of Reference for the
financial manager have already been developed and preliminary interviews have taken place in Tashkent.
Detailed examples of project implementation agreements used in other countries in the region were
provided to the Uzbek Delegation at Negotiations.



- 19-
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Itzhak Goldberg
Sector Leader: Gerhard Pohl
Country Director: Ishrat Husaiin



-20 -
Annex 1
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Supervision         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                 (Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhanced private sector      Stronger enterprise           Country statistics            Sustained commitment to
development                  performance and                                             macroeconomic stability
profitability, and increased                               and process of private sector
foreign investment                                         development.
Project Development                                                                      (Objective to Goal)
Objectives:
1. Improve efficiency of     1. Successful                 1. Supervision mission
privatized enterprises.      implementation of 30
enterprise restructuring
plans by end of project
2. Support the GOU's         2. Sale of 7 large scale firms  2.1 Reports of the Center
implementation of case-by-   to strategic investors by end   2.2 Reports of the financial
case privatization to        of project.                   advisors.
improve enterprise
efficiency, and attract
foreign know-how and
capital.
3. Enhance effectiveness     3. Increase in trade of shares  3. Reports from the
and widen public             on the stock exchange,        Depository, the Center and
participation in capital     improved mechanisms for    the stock exchange
markets and protect          trade of securities.
shareholders
4. Strengthen the            4. Stronger local private
institutional capacity to    entrepreneurs and more
facilitate enterprise reform.   foreign investment.
Outputs':.                                                                               (Outputs to Objective)
1. Establishment of          I. Completion of 30           1 . I Supervision missions    1. Sustainable Institutional
sustainable EIBB and         restructuring plans for client  1.2. PIU implementation     building
provision of restructuring   enterprises in the 5 years of   records                     1.1 Acceptance of advisory
plans                        the project.                                                services and execution of
restructuring plans.
2. Provision of viable       2. Completion of 13                                         1.2 Payment of 25% of cost
privatization plans          privatization plans and       2.1 Reports of the PIU        of restructuring services by
Government award of          2.2 Reports of the            enterprises
privatization contracts      consultants
according to PIP schedule.                                 2.1 Transparency of case-
by-case privatization
End-of-project statement of milestone reached through the implementation of each component (each output should correspond in number to its respective
component).



-21 -
3. Provision of workable   3.1 Completion of systems   3.1 Reports of the         2.2 Continuation of
plans for new systems and    upgrading for securities  consultants                investment advisor role in
procedures at the stock    market by end of year 3.    3.2 Reports of the Center,    Phase 3 privatization sale
exchange the Center and the  3.2 Completion of 13      the Exchange and the       2.3 interest of strategic
depository.                candidate training sessions   Depository               investors
abroad and 60 local
candidate training sessions
by the end of year 3.
Components/Activities:    Inpujts: (budget for each                               (Components to Outputs)
activity)
1. Post-privatization                                  1.1. PIU reports           1.1 Capacity of local
Advisory Services                                      1.2. PIU implementation    consulting industry
a) Establish and staff    $3.3 million              records
EIBB
b) Conduct
procurement for     $0.7 million
Bureau
c) Prepare restructuring
plans                $12.2 million
2. Case-by-case
privatization
a) Establish and staff
CCPB                                               2.1. PIU reports            2.1 Adequate level of
b) Conduct procurement    $2.1 million                 2.2. PIU implementation    foreign investment advisor
for CCPB                                           records                    interest
c) Conduct 18 initial      $1.1 million
privatization
assessments            $6.8 million
d) Success fees for 7
privatization
transactions           $16.5 million
3. Capital Market
Development
a) Procurement of
hardware and software                              3.1 PIU reports
b) Develop TORs and        $0.8 million                3.2 PIU implementation
contract technical                                 records
assistance             $1.6 million
c)                                               .



- 22 -
Annex 2
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Project Description
Component 1: Post Privatization Advisory Services - US$16.2 million (total cost of component)
Objectives (i) to support and help accelerate the Governments reform efforts in the enterprise sector by
providing advisory services aimed at improving the profitability and general operational, financial and
managerial efficiency of enterprises with a significant shareholding by outside private owners; and (ii) to
support and facilitate the development and growth of a highly qualified domestic consulting industry.
Activities. The staff of the EIBB, supported by outside short-term consultants as needed, will carry out
the initial diagnostic studies of enterprises that are candidates for receiving assistance under the project.
The purpose of the diagnostic study is to identify and prioritize the enterprise's needs for the advisory
services, and assess their receptivity to outside consulting advice. The diagnostic study will determine
whether the efficiency of the enterprise can be improved without a significant capital investment. If this
is not so, the EIBB will not pursue any further consulting assistance to this company. The duration of the
diagnostic studLy will depend on the size and complexity of the enterprise and other factors.
After carrying out the diagnostic study, the EIBB will prepare Terms of Reference (TORs) for the
subsequent assistance, relating to the rehabilitation and restructuring of the enterprise, including the
development of marketing strategy and quality management systems, provision of partner search,
upgrade of products to international standards, and implementation of modern accounting, financial, and
commercial management systems. All TORs for assistance funded under the IBRD loan will need to be
approved by the World Bank.
After the TORs are approved by the World Bank, the EIBB will conduct open and competitive tenders
for the provision of advisory services by outside consultants. The consultants will be selected according
to the procedures specified in the World Bank's "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency". An Evaluation Committee will be formed to review the bids
submitted by the consultants and select the winner.  The Evaluation Committee should include
representatives of the Supervisory Board, the EIBB, the beneficiary enterprises, and an independent
observer. The result of the selection will be forwarded to the World Bank for review and no-objection.
The Consultants will be required to deliver monthly interim reports to the Enterprise and the EIBB for
the approval. The contract signed with the selected consultant will include a clause that links payments
to the delivery of progress reports. In this way, the EIBB will control and monitor project preparation
and implementation.
The EIBB will be responsible for project monitoring, follow-up, fine tuning, and cancellations of
contracts, if needed.



- 23 -
The following eligibility criteria will be used for selecting enterprises that will receive advisory services
financed under the loan:
* small and medium-sized enterprises which are majority owned or controlled by shareholders other
than the Borrower or any person (including corporate entities) representing the interest of the
Borrower or any entities majority owned or controlled by the Borrower;
* enterprises with at least 30 percent shareholding by outside private owners (i.e. PIFs), and where the
EIBB receives a clear indication that these outside private owners will endeavor to stimulate the
implementation of the recommendations for improvement of the profitability and efficiency of the
enterprise by providing incentives to directors;
* enterprise management's willingness to collaborate with the outside consultants and pay a 25 percent
share of the costs of the advisory services;
* enterprises where improvernents in profitability can be achieved, within the constraints of existing
equipment and technology, through management, organizational, accounting, financial and marketing
improvements;
* enterprises that are not subject to control by the Associations as regards their inputs and outputs (such
as price control, restrictions on sales, dependence on monopoly state-owned supplier).
The initial list of recipient post-privatized enterprises should be approved by the Supervisory Board of
the EIBB. Thereafter, the Supervisory Board might decide to conduct random checks on the enterprises
selected by the EIBB for advisory services to ensure that they meet agreed criteria.
The advisory service costs for each assignment will be estimated by the EIBB in the TORs and approved
by the World Bank. The EIBE will pay the consultants from the funds made available under the IBRD
loan. The EIBB will be responsible for direct payment of 100 percent of the fees and expenses of the
advisory services to the Consultant selected for the assignment. The EIBB shall recover from the
beneficiary enterprises and/or the outside owners (i.e. PlFs) 25 percent of the total advisory services
costs paid to the Consultant. The proceeds collected from the contribution of the enterprises and/or
outside owners shall be used to cover the EIBB's operating costs. The payments obligations of the EIBB
to the Consultants and the payment obligations of the Beneficiary Enterprise to the EIBB will be
stipulated, along with a scheclule of payments, in a Contract signed between the EIBB, the selected
Consultants and the enterprise and/or outside owners before the start of the consulting assignment.
Eligibility Criteria for Local Staff of the EIBB
* University degree in micro-economics, business management or finance;
* Three years of experience working in successful private enterprises (preferably new start-ups or a
joint venture with a reputable foreign company), or in the consulting industry (preferably in
association with Western consultants), or a recognized technical expert with hands-on practical
experience in the type of assignments that the EIBB will be supervising and monitoring (marketing,
organization, turnaround strategies and business planning, cost accounting, finance, project
evaluation;
* Completion of refresher course training (financial analysis, corporate finance, marketing,
organizations and management, restructuring, privatization) on modern management theory, and
practice of not less than three month duration in total, leading to the delivery of a certificate of
success;
* Computer skills.



-24 -
Component 2: Case-by-case Privatization - US$26.5 million (total cost of component)
Objective The objective of case-by-case privatization component is to support the efficient and
transparent privatization of larger state enterprises.
Activities To realize the objective of this component, an independent CCPB will be established by the
GOU to manage case-by-case privatization. International investment bankers will be used as financial
advisors and sales agents for each privatization. This will foster transparency on the sales process, will
help insure successful sales, and obtain market value for firms sold. Specifically:
*  The CCPB will hire international investment bankers through open and competitive tenders using the
"World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants";
*  The criteria for selection of international investment bankers would be that the firm: i) has been the
lead advisor to Government in at least 10 successful case-by-case privatizations with receipts of at
least USD 10 million each; and ii) the reputation of the firm is of a high standard, as judged by the
Bank;
*  Each privatization exercise will be undertaken by the same investment bank. This will provide a
strong incentive for the investment bank to prepare a workable privatization plan, as it will earn most
of its fees from the sale transaction itself in the form of success fees (commission on sale). Each
investment banker would engage and lead a consortium of advisors, (i.e., financial experts, auditors,
lawyers, and other technical advisors as required to complete the sale transaction); and
* As the Government is concerned that privatization advisors may either spend time (and run up their
fees) on enterprises that cannot be sold or may produce privatization plans that are not realistic, the
terms of reference of the investment banker will cover three phases, starting with an initial rapid
review of the enterprise (phase 1). If the review is negative, the assignment will terminate and no
more work will be billed. If the review is positive, the same investment banker will carry out a
valuation and develop a privatization strategy (phase 2) and, finally, undertake to sell the company
on behalf of the Government (phase 3). The Bank loan will be used to pay the fixed fees of the
investment bankers in phase I and 2; the fees for phase 3 will be paid from commissions from the
sale of the companies (success fees).
A list of six enterprises was agreed at Negotiations for the first "wave" of privatizations. They are:
Almalyk Mining, UzCabel (Power & Telecommunication Cables), Andizhan Cable, Okhangoron
Cement, Kuvasai Cement, and Nishanpakhtatozlash. Bank staff have visited 12 of the 18 case-by-case
privatization candidates identified by the Government and these included Almalyk Mining and Uzkabel.
The Bank has also identified other companies among the 18 companies above as potential privatization
candidates once the GoU has gained case-by-case privatization experience, including Tashkent Airport
and Uzbek Airlines. IFC staff have identified Andizhan Cable as a potential candidate.
The Bank is currently in the process of engaging technical specialists to examine in more detail Almalyk
Mining, Uzkabel, and Andizhan Cable. It is the Bank's intention to engage experts to examine
Nishanpakhtatozlash.  Additionally, a minority foreign shareholder has expressed an interest in
purchasing a control block of shares of one of the cement companies on the case-by-case list above.
The Government will also identify a further five enterprises that could be candidates for case-by-case
privatization at the end of each year of the program, using criteria to be developed jointly by the
Borrower and the Bank. These enterprises will provide an additional inventory of possible privatization
candidates as the case-by-case privatization program progresses.



- 25 -
The Government will refrain from changing the share structure or selling or otherwise distributing the
shares of the companies proposed for the case-by-case privatization program until the Government and
the Bank have agreed that a company is not a promising candidate for this privatization program or, if it
is included in the program, until the investment banker proposes a change in structure as part of the
privatization plan.
The three-phase case-by-case privatization process described above will be monitored and reviewed by
the Bank, as follows:
* Phase 1: the report of the investment banker;
*  Phase 2: the report of the investment banker on the valuation of the company, the options for sale
and the recommended sales option; and
* Phase 3: the sales process recommended by the investment bank and adopted by the Government,
the criteria of selection for a winning tender as developed by the investment banker and adopted by
the Government; and the evaluation of the tender offers and the Government's reasons for selection
of a winning bidder.
Eligibility criteria for local staff of the CCPB
* University degree in micro-economics, business management, or finance;
* Three years of experience working in successful private enterprises (preferably new start-ups or a
joint venture with a reputable foreign company), or in the consulting industry (preferably in
association with Western consultants), or a recognized technical expert with hands-on practical
experience in the type of work that the Bureau will be doing; and
e  Completion of refresher course training (financial analysis, corporate finance, privatization) on
modern management theory and practice of not less than three month duration in total, leading to the
delivery of a certificate of success.
Component 3: Capital Market Development - US$2.4 million (total cost of component)
The capital markets development component is designed to support the further development of the
Securities Center, the Stock E,xchange, and the National Depository. Four sub-components are identified
below. These are:
(a) securities market regulation and investor protection,
(b) assistance in supporting secondary trade in securities,
(c) technical upgrade of the national depository; and
(d) training.
The principal counterparts to each component will be:
(a) The Securities Center with responsibility for regulation of securities markets;
(b) The Stock Exchange and OTC market participants;
(c) The National Depository; and
(d) The Securities Center as coordinator for training for all market participants.



-26 -
Securities Market Regulation and Investor Protection
Background
Legitimate concerns about the rights of small investors are best addressed through the development of a
transparent secondary market and rules on obligations to disclose major acquisitions, requirements for
majority shareholders to offer to buy the shares of minority holders, as well as rules on insider trading.
This is the approach used in other markets. It avoids putting restrictions on demand which would be
detrimental to suppliers/owners, as lower demand will result in lower prices. It also avoids putting
constraints on the concentration of ownership which may be seriously detrimental to corporate
governance and enterprise restructuring.
Secondary market trading is best promoted by ensuring that all relevant information on listed enterprises,
securities market activity and individual trades is made readily available to all market participants in a
timely manner. This may require imposing reporting requirements as well as installing systems on the
Stock Exchange which enable timely that market participants have timely access to trading information.
Objectiv,es
The objective of this technical assistance is to provide the authorities with advice on the regulation of
securities markets commensurate with international practices. Issues to be addressed will include
promotion of an active secondary market and the surveillance of secondary market trading.
As transparency is vital to promoting the secondary market, this component will include a review of
current systems for gathering and disseminating information on: (a) listing, quoting of shares; (b) issuers
(their activities, financial data etc.); (c) security market information (turnover, prices, principal
shareholders etc.); and (d) trading in individual issues (prices, bids and offers). Proposals will be made
for improvements, including associated costs and possible funding. Given the considerable investments
already undertaken in development of the market infrastructure, emphasis will be placed on building on
current facilities.
Resources will be devoted to training staff at the Securities Center in international best practices through
on-the-job training, attendance of staff of the Securities Center in international seminars and/or twinning
with other regulatory agencies.
Outline of Work
Consultants specializing in regulation of securities markets and stock market trading systems should
work closely with the Securities Center, the Stock Exchange and the GKI on these issues. They should
review current regulatory measures affecting trade on the secondary market, and propose changes which
will prornote the development of a transparent secondary market. While seeking to promote secondary
trading, these changes should also respect the authorities' concerns regarding shareholder protection.
The consultants will devote considerable resources to training staff at the Securities Center in
international best practices. This component will finance the attendance of staff of the Securities Center
in international seminars and/or twinning with other regulatory agencies.



- 27 -
Assistance to Support Secondary Trading of Shares
Background and Objectives
Currently secondary trading of shares is temporarily suspended. However, even before the suspension,
only limited secondary trading took place and this is also likely to be the case after the suspension is
lifted. Secondary trading is essential in order to allow investors to accumulate meaningful ownership
stakes, thus providing them with the incentive to undertake corporate restructuring.
Large investments have been made in the current infrastructure of the Stock Exchange, but this
investment is currently considerably underutilized. The objective of this component is to study whether
there are institutional or other impediments to trade of shares. Examples of such impediments could be
unwillingness by certain owner-groups to exercise their authority as corporate governors, lack of
transparency concerning enterprise activities and accounts, and lack of knowledge of the basics of
corporate finance (such as the opportunities in corporate take-overs).
Outline of Work
This work will involve advise on issues concerning corporate finance with a view to revealing
impediments to share trading (such as lack of information on corporate activities and earnings) and in
order to encourage trading in corporate shares. Current trading mechanisms and systems will be
reviewed with a view to identifying any impediments/bottlenecks to corporate governance/restructuring.
Advice will also be given to support the development of automated trade in shares of unlisted
corporations using -- as far as possible -- the infrastructure already developed by the National Depository
and the Stock Exchange.
Technical Upgrade of the National Depository
Background
The National Depository is an important part of the financial infrastructure in Uzbekistan and has a key
role in the privatization process. The National Depository, where enterprise shares are registered in
dematerialized form, is the major central registry for enterprise shares in Uzbekistan.
Objectives and work plans
* Linking securities transfer to cash transfer, delivery versus payment (DVP). This is an essential
benchmark in securities settlement systems, as it eliminates principal risk which is the major risk
in security settlement systems. The present system of blocking securities makes it impossible to
do back-to-back trades where the same security is traded several times on the same day. It is
envisaged that the National Depository be responsible for clearing of security trades while
settlement of payments takes place at accounts administered at the Central Bank.
* The focus of the Depository should be on risk management. Depositories need to be ultra-safe
institutions. The objective must be to create a culture of risk consciousness/aversion. This will
involve developing procedures whereby risks are revealed and are monitored, for example,
through sign-off procedures, mandatory reviews of risks when introducing new services or
products, and internal as well as external audits of systems and procedures.



-28 -
*  Legal issues related to securities settlement are extremely complex and include such topics as
procedures resulting from  the bankruptcy of market participants.  Conditions for market
participation and contracts need to be reviewed.
*  Establishing an electronic link between the National Depository with the Stock Exchange will
reduce operational risk.
*  Delays in up to six months have been reported in settlement of transactions (compared to the
usual international standard of three days). Systems should be introduced to ensure shorter
settlement times, including introducing penalties for settlement delays.
* The Depository's current high transaction fees inhibit share trading. The fee structure should be
reviewed with a view to reducing the onus on secondary trading of shares.
*  Clarification regarding certain key features of the Law on the National Depository is advisable to
support inter alia the segregation of investor accounts and the unequivocal supremacy of the
registration of dematerialized ownership at the Depository.
*  Increased customer orientation through the establishment of user-groups and objectives for
servicing customers, e.g. regarding computer up-time.
As an important introductory phase of this component a complete review of the computer systems will be
undertaken to explore the constraints and risks associated with alternative hardware and software
solutions.
Proposals on necessary acquisitions will be outlined based on the review of the computer systems. The
proposals will describe the exact costs of the upgraded systems and outline how the acquisitions should
be brought on line. Among the issues to be incorporated are:
*  supporting the improvement of the clearing and settlement systems of the National Depository;
* introducing securities coding in conformity with international practices;
*  improving information on securities transactions and offers so as to improve market transparency
on securities trading for all market participants;
*  providing the National Depository with a back-up, duplicating computer facilities and warranty
facilities for its servers;
Training
In addition to the assistance outlined above, it is advisable that considerable resources be devoted to
supporting the Securities Center, Stock Exchange, and Depository in fulfilling their functions in a
growing and more complex financial market environment. The staff of these institutions will need
further training in finance, risk management and in corporate and financial law. Only few resources have
hitherto beein devoted to these areas.



-29 -
It is envisaged that training arranged locally (by lawyers, consultants, and staff of the international audit
firms in Tashkent) will be provided in corporate and financial law, risk management and finance. To
supplement this the staff would be encouraged to participate in finance training abroad and participate in
conferences on depository activities abroad. In addition, this component will finance English language
training both locally (on the job), and longer periods of. intensive training abroad at English-speaking
business schools.
To the extent that work-shops on corporate and financial law, risk management and finance are arranged
locally, this will encourage inter-institutional cross-fertilization and the formation of a network of local
professionals/officials in these areas.



- 30 -
Annex 3
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                      Government         IBRD             Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Post Privatization Advisory Service (Component 1)
Technical Assistance                                         2.1           13.4          15.4
Equipment and Goods                                          0.6            0.1           0.7
Subtotal                                                       2.7           13.5          16.2
Case by Case Privatization (Component 2)
Technical Assistance                                         16.5           8.9          25.4
Equipment and Goods                                           0.5           0.6            1.1
Subtotal                                                     17.0           9.5          26.5
Capital Market (Component 3)
Technical Assistance                                        -----            1.6           1.6
Equipment and Goods                                          ----           0.8            0.8
Subtotal                                                     ----           2.4            2.4
Unallocated                                                  ----           2.6            2.6
Grand Total                                                   19.7         28.0           47.7



- 31 -
Annex 4
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Case-by-Case Privatization of large enterprises:
Regarding the large enterprises selected for case-by-case privatization, international investment banks
will conduct a feasibility analysis and valuation based on international prices and evaluate the effect of
Uzbekistan's currency and mrarket distortions on the potential for sale of the enterprise and its valuation.
Four of the six enterprises selected as potential privatization candidates rely almost exclusively on local
inputs and sell in international markets (Almalyk Mining, UzKabel, Andizhan Cable, and
Nishanpakhtatozlash) and, hence, have the advantage of generating most of their revenues in hard
currency and most of their costs in local currency. The two remaining enterprises, Okhangoron Cement
and Kuvasai Cement, receive portions of their revenues in hard currency from exports in Central Asia.
We have avoided choosing companies that buy and sell in local markets, for example, textile mills,
because the local currency risk and the risk of government interference in pricing makes them
uninteresting to foreign investors unless special concessions are offered.
An abundance of evidence indicates that there are factor-productivity and cost-efficiency gains from
privatization in formerly socialist economies. Some case evidence also suggests that employment in
privatized firms is more likely to climb following privatization, especially in firms manufacturing
primarily for export; as is the case in four of the companies selected for the case-by-case program.
It is equally difficult to quantify the net social-welfare gains from higher productivity, more competitive
products and services, and the other elements of a reformed public sector, but there is evidence that they
will include: higher levels of domestic investment in the economy, fiscal benefits from a more viable tax
base, greater public resources available for targeted subsidies (for poverty-reduction, unemployment,
health care, education, and so on).
For case-by-case privatization, international experience shows that the use of reputable investment
bankers increases privatization proceeds more than their cost. They have the market experience and
contacts to enable them to accurately value and sell firms that will be sold, in part, to foreign investors.
In fact, many investors will not be interested in participating in sales of significant companies (or will
not participate at market prices) that are undertaken by unqualified financial agents because of the risk
the sale will not be transparent and fair or the offering memoranda will be defective or found wanting.
Post-Privatization restructuring of medium enterprises:
The potential benefit of restructuring is an increased value of the enterprise: the increase of the NPV of
the enterprise's stream of cash flow following restructuring versus the NPV "without restructuring". As
these cash flows are hard to quantify, we computed a switching value as follows: If an average $200,000
project will raise the sales of an enterprise by at least 15 percent, the project will break even: the
annualized cost is $35,000 (i=12 percent; n=10). For example, in the bread sector in Uzbekistan the
1996 turnover was around 100,000,000 sum or about $1,000,000. The expected net margin (revenue
minus costs minus overhead but before deducting depreciation and interest on capital) could be $200,000
at say 20 percent (net margin in bread). Thus, it would take an increase of 17.5 percent in the net margin
(the annual cost of the restructuring $35,000/annual net margin $200,000) following the TA to justify the



- 32 -
cost of advisory services. Is an increase of 17.5 percent due to restructuring probable? Careful enterprise
selection should make this a realistic target. The selection which is based on the diagnostic study to be
performed by the EIBB will identify the feasibility of restructuring without capital investment
("defensive restructuring") and the willingness of the management to take the steps necessary to
implement the recommendations of the restructuring plan; e.g. market re-orientation, energy metering,
production lay-out reconfiguration, quality control, labor layoffs or other input savings.
As mentioned in Sections B and F in the PAD, a major risk of this project is that liberalization will be
delayed and in the presence of the existing price distortions, enterprises lack the necessary signals to
make proper decisions with regard to restructuring. In general, a manger cannot determine an optimal
product mix or input combination if their prices are distorted by the exchange rate or trade regime.
However, in this "pilot restructuring", the enterprises selected for this project will be relatively more free
to make sound decisions: we will choose small to medium enterprises which do not belong to
associations, produce products which are in high demand locally or are easily exportable to neighboring
countries. Needless to say that economy-wide restructuring will be possible only when the trade regime
is liberalized and the limited objective of this project is to build institutional capacity until the trade
regime is liberalized.



-33 -
Annex 5
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 2003
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
(USD millions)
Implementation Period                         Operational Period
Project Costs                   1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs                 4.2      8.3    10.3    10.7    11.4
Total                        4.2      8.3    10.3    10.7    11.4  0.8 annual
Financing Sources (% of total
nroiect costs)
IBRD/IDA                        4.0      4.8      4.8      5.3      6.3
Co-financiers
Government
Central
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries         0.2      3.5      5.5      5.4     5.1  1.2 annual
Others
Others
Others
Others
Others
Total                        4.2      8.3    10.3    10.7    11.4  0.8 annual
Cost escalation 3 percent
Capital Markets and Privatization comrponents complete after five years.
US$0.8 million annual restructuring cost reflects five restructurings a year after fifth year.



- 34 -
Annex 6
UZBEKISTAN: ENTERPRISE INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurem.ent
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Table Al)
Consultant Selection Arrangements (Table A2)
Thresholds for Procurement Method and Prior Review( Table B)
Procurement Schedule for Year One of Project Implementation (Table C)
Procurement Information (Table D)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table E)
Disbursement Schedule (Table F)



-35 -
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement of goods and consultant services to be financed under the loan will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines -- Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated
January 1995 (revised January and August 1996, September 1997 amendment) and Guidelines -
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, September
1997 amendment). The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A. The procurement
schedule for the first year of the project is presented in Table C. The plans for subsequent years will be
prepared six months in advance.  Procurement would involve technical assistance and training
(approximately 94 percent of total project costs), purchasing of goods (3 percent of total costs). The
remainder of the loan will finance operating costs (3 percent of total project costs). All procurement
under the proposed project will be carried out at central level by the PIU. The project will finance
technical assistance for procurement and management support to the PIU.
Procurement Responsibility
The PIU will include two full-time procurement officers whose main responsibilities will be to prepare
and: (a) submit to the Bank all procurement documents which require Bank's prior review; (b) carry out
any procurement at central level; (c) prepare and submit to the Bank at the beginning of each calendar
year a detailed procurement schedule. The appointment of the procurement officers will be done in
consultation with the Bank. At project launch (July, 1998), the Bank will deliver a procurement
workshop to present and explain procurement guidelines and commence preparing specific bidding
documents.
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice has been published in the April 30, 1998 issue of Development Business,
and as appropriate, will be updated and published annually thereafter. For goods and consultants
contracts of US$200,000 or more to be obtained by ICB for goods and by short-list procedure for
consultants, individual bidding opportunities will also be advertised, in a major local newspaper thirty
(30) days prior to availability of bidding documents and transmitted to potential bidders who expressed
interest in bidding in response to the published General Procurement Notice. The local advertisement
procedure will be repeated for all bidding packages utilizing ICB (at least 30 days in advance of
availability of bidding documents). The local advertisements will be in the English language as well as
in Uzbek at the option of the Borrower. For the preparation of short lists in the selection of consultants,
GPN(s) will be publisheid soliciting expressions of interests.  In addition, a specific notice in
Development Business will be required for consultants contracts of US$200,000 or more.
Procurement of Goods
Goods (US$1.21 million) would consist of computer software/hardware and office equipment and
supplies. To minimize the number of contracts and reduce unit costs, equipment and materials to be
financed under the loan would be combined into large packages to the extent practicable. The
procurement methods would be followed:
(a)  Internationail Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for packages
US$200,000 equivalent and above for an estimated total cost of US$1.14 million.
(b)  International and National Shopping (IS and NS) procedures will be followed for
purchases estimated to cost an aggregate of US$0.07 million. IS and NS will be used for
readily available off-the-shelf goods of standard specifications that are small in value. IS
procedures will be used for goods valued at less than US$200,000, and NS procedures will



- 36 -
be used for goods valued at less than US$50,000. It is expected that miscellaneous office
equipment  and  supplies,  non-proprietary  spare  parts  and  certain  training
materials/equipment will be procured using IS and NS procedures. IS procedures will
require obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers from two different countries and
for NS procedures, quotations from at least three local suppliers.
Consulting Services
Consultant assignments to be contracted are estimated at US$42.48 million of which US$23.88 million
has been allocated for technical assistance and training which would be financed by the Bank 100
percent net of taxes.: As far as practicable, the contracts will be packaged to include a combination of
related skills and services to increase the size and, therefore, the market interest in each contract and
reduce the number of contracts to be administered. The Terms of Reference (TOR) for all assignments
will be subject to Bank's prior review. As presented in Annex 6, Table A2 and Table C, consultancy
services would be procured as follows:
(i)  For the Post-Privatization component, 75 contracts (estimated value US$12.18 million) for
consultancy services would be procured following the "Consultants' Qualification " (CQ)
method of selection(contract value less than US$100,000). Firms would be selected from
a long-list of firms pre-qualified and approved by the Bank.  For contract above
US$100,000, the client would prepare a short-list of three firms out of the above
mentioned long-list, and upon approval by the Bank, solicit proposals from these three
firms using the QCBS method of selection.
(ii)  For the Case-by-Case Privatization component of the project, 18 contracts (estimated value
US$23.33) would be awarded to Investment Banks who have qualifications in the sale of
assets, issuance of financial instruments, and other corporate financial transactions,
notably in the context of privatization operations, shall be selected under the "Quality - and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)" method of procurement in accordance with Section 3.17 in
the World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
(iii) For the Capital Markets Development component of the project, two contracts ( estimated
value US$1.61 million) would be awarded to consulting firms following the "Quality-Cost
Based Selection (QCBS)" method of procurement. Since this activity would involve
customized upgrading of computer hardware and software particularly developed for such
activities, the consultant would be required to take the entire responsibility of preparing the
appropriate bidding documents, including technical specification, evaluation of bids,
contract negotiations, installation, test, train local personnel and operationalize the system.
The cost of the procurement of the computer hardware/software would be outside of the
consultancy contract and reimbursement would be made on a cost basis, after allowing for
the services rendered by the consultants for its procurement services.
(iv) Audit services will be procured under LCS procedures of the consultants' Guidelines.
(v)  Consultancy contracts (estimated value US$5.16 million) would be awarded to individual
consultants who would be providing advisory services to the implementing agencies. The
procurement method to be followed would be the "Individual Consultant (IC)" method of
selection which would require the comparison of at least three CVs.



-37 -
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
For contracts for goods to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, as set forth in the Loan
Agreement, grant a margin of preference in the evaluation of bids up to 15 percent or the amount of
applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in
accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Operating Costs. The two bureaus have been established as the implementing agencies for the project
and as such the loan will finance their operating costs, mainly salaries of personnel, local travel, office
rental (privately owned), utility services, equipment operation and maintenance, and office supplies
based upon an annual budget acceptable to the Bank. The local personnel are being recruited following a
short list selection and TOR agreed upon with the Bank. Level of salaries of the personnel will be agreed
upon with the Bank. However, it is anticipated that the salary levels will be comparable to other
implementing agencies of Bank-financed projects in Uzbekistan.
Bank Review
Prior review by the Bank will be exercised for the following procurement documents:
*  all ICB for goods and the first two International and National Shopping contracts;
*  all consulting services contracts with firms estimated at US$100,000 or more, and with individuals
estimated at US$10,000 equivalent;
*  all extension of contracts with firms raising the contract value at US$100,000 or more equivalent;
*  all extension of contracts with individuals raising the contract value at US$10,000 or more; and
*  all requests for proposal lRFP)
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
To date, a CPAR for Uzbekistan has not been prepared. However, a quick review was done under the
Public Procurement Reform Initiative under a recently approved IDF grant which was expected to be
implemented during 1997. In general, experience with competitive bidding procedures is limited and
close supervision by the Bank and the consultants will be exercised. For this project, the Govemment
will follow Bank procurement procedures as described above and as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Disbursements
The proceeds of the loan (U[S$28.00 million) would be lent to Uzbekistan. The proceeds of the loan
would be passed to theMinistry of Finance. The Borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of five years up to June 30, 2003 (Annex 6 Tables E
and F). The loan closing date (i.e., the final date for presentation of requests for approval or
authorization to disburse on project components) would be December 31, 2003, six months after the
completion date. The project completion date would be June 30,2003. The percent of expenditures for
goods and equipment, and consulting services to be financed under the Loan is given in Annex 6, Tables
A, B and C.



- 38 -
Documentation: Statement of Expenditures - Disbursements would be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) for expenditures under contract costing less than US$200,000 equivalent for goods,
$10,000 equivalent for services of individual consultants, and $100,000 equivalent for services of
consulting firms and operating costs $50,000 equivalent for which detailed documents evidencing
expenditures will be reviewed and kept by PIU and made available for the required audit as well as to
Bank supervision missions.
Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain
and operate, under condition acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial
bank. In this case, the Borrower has requested that two Special Accounts be opened (as there are two
implementing agencies, namely the EIBB and the CCPB) in order to simplify the accounting and
tracking of the withdrawals made by the two bureaus. The selection process and criteria for selection of
the commercial bank would follow the World Bank standard selection procedures. During the early
stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Accounts would be limited to US$100,000 for
each bureau in each special account. However, when the aggregate disbursement under the Loan have
reached the level of US$8 million the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation
of US$500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications
should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as
other appropriate supporting documents. The minimum application size for payments directly from the
Loan account will be 20 percent of the Special Account deposit.
Financing Management. Accounting and Auditing: The Project Coordination Unit would be audited
annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank. No later than six months after the end its fiscal year, the
Project Coordination Unit would submit to the Bank copies of audit reports containing the author's
opinion on (a) project account, including statements of expenditure and the Special Accounts.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive Financing in the amount of USD $500,000 will be provided as of January 1, 1998 to finance
the first transaction in the Case-by-Case privatization component. The primary justification is that it is
vital not to lose the momentum and have the privatization delayed till the time of Loan Effectiveness as
the GoU and the enterprise are currently ready to begin the process.  Furthermore, the positive
demonstration effect of the first large privatization in Uzbekistan will be invaluable for the success of the
remainder of the privatizations under the Case-by-Case privatization component.



- 39 -
Annex 6
Uzbekistani: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    P'rocurement Method                                                                Total Cost (including
contingencies
IC1B                       NCB                     Other        N.B.F
1. Goods
Computers &
Equipment                        1.14                                                0.07                          1.21
(1.14)                                            (0.07)                         (1.21)
2. Services
TA Consultants                                                                       12.18                         12.18
(12.18)                       (12.18)
TA Investment Banks                                                                  23.33                         23.33
(6.83)                        (6.83)
TA Consultants & Training                                                           1.61                           1.61
(1.61)                        (1.61)
Individual Consultants                                                             4.20                           4.20
(2.10)                        (2.10)
3. Incremental Operating Cost
Buildings                                                                          1.11                           1.11
Audits                                                                             0.20                          0.20
(0.20)                        (0.20)
TA consultant                                                                     0.96                           0.96
(0.96)                        (0.96)
Miscellaneous                                                                     0.30                           0.30
(0 30)                        (0.30)
......    'I   N.%         E   ... .........
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other"
are detailed in Table B.



-40 -
Annex 6
Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                         Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                   (including
Expenditure Category                             .                                   contingencies)
___ __ _ ___ _ _QCBS    QBS        IC      LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                   27-90                      0.20    9.22                       37.32
B. Individuals                              5.16                                         5.16
- ~ zaI                                                             42.48
Note: QCBS  = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  = Quality-based Selection
SFB   = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   = Least-Cost Selection
CQ    = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed.



-41 -
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review/
Estimated Total Value
(US$million)                             Subject to Prior
Review
1. Goods             1.21
Computers &       Contracts above
Equipment        US$200,000            ICB                   All ICB packages
up to US$200,000     IS                    First two contracts
up to US$50,000      NS                    First two contracts
2. Services          42.28
Consultant Services  Firms (above        QCBS                  Firms(above
US$I 00,000)                               US$ I 00,000)
Fiirms (less than    CQ                    Firms (less than
US$100,000)                                US$100,000)
Individuals          CV                    above US$10,000
Only Terms of
Reference to be
reviewed
3. Operating, Cost
Audits            0.20                  LCS                  Firns over
Firms over                                 US$100,000
US$100,000
Miscellaneous     0.30                  Based on annual
budget



- 42 -
Annex 6
Uzuekis-aan Enterprise institution Building Project
Table C: Procurement Schedule for Year One of Project Implementation
US$million equivalent
Description       Type    Number of          Estimated Procurenent       Date of  Issuance of        Subnission        Signing            Conpletion of
packages          Cost      Metihod           GPN      Invitation        Bids              of Contract        Contract
A. Goods
Computers &       G        2                  1.14     ICB               4/30/98   6/30-7/30/98      8/30-9/30/98      10/30-11/30/98     2/30/99-3/30/99
Equipment
Office Equipment   G        1                 0.07     IS                4/30/98   6/30/98           8/17/98           10/15/98           12/30/98
B. Services
TA Consultants    TA/CS   10                  1.50     CQ                4/30/98   7/30-9/30/98      9/30-11/30/98     12/30/98- 01/99    4/99-12/99
TA Invet. Banks    TA/CS    3                 1.05     QCBS              4/30/98  6/30/98-3/30/99    8/30/98-5/30/99   11/30/98-10/30/99   4/99-12/99
Individual Consult.  TA/CS    3 expatriates   1.03     IC                4/30/98   6/30/98           8/30/98           12/30/98           12/30/99
24 nationals
TA Consultants    TA/CS    1                  0.50     QCBS              4/30/98   9/30/98           12/30/98          3/30/99            12/2003
C Incremental Operating Costs
Audits                                        0.20     LCS               4/30/98  4/30/98            5/30/98           6/30/98            12/2003
Miscellaneous                                 0.07
TOTAL                                       5.56
G = Goods; TA/CS = Technical Assistance/Consultant Services; TR = Training; ICB = international Competitive Bidding; IS = Intemational Shopping; CQ = consultants' qualifications;
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Services; IC Individual Consultants.



-43 -
Annex 6
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Table D: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Procurement of Goods                     ICB                       NCB                       Is                        NS                       Other Methods
1. Procurement method thresholds          >US$200,000                                        <US$200,000               <US$50,000
2. Prior Review                           All                                                 First two                First two
Procurement of Consultant Services          QBS              QCBS               FB              Least Cost               CQ         Individual
1. Procurement method thresholds                     >US$100,000                         <US$200,000              <US$100,000       <US$10,000
2. Prior Review                                       US$100,000+                             All                      TORs         All TORs and contracts
3. Ex-post Review                                      <US$100,000                       <US$100,000                <US$100,000      <US$50,000
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
1. PIU to recruit qualified procurement staff with prior experience in World Bank procurement procedures: PIU will have primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement
procedures.
2. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: Planned    |3. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready
I     by negotiations? No, draft bidding documents ready by effectivcness.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
1. Estimated date of Project Launch  2. Estimated date of General        3. Indicate if contracts are subject to    4. Domestic Preference for Goods:
Workshop:                           Procurement Notice publication: After   mandatory SPN in Development                    Yes
negotiations (April 30, 1998)       Business: All consultants' contracts
July 1998                                                       above US$200,000
5. Retroactive financing:  No                                                                                            6. Advanced Procurement: No
7. Procurement Monitoring System: PIU to report procurement actions in quarterly progress reports.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
1. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team             UNIT                                                   Ext.
Seyoum Solomon                                                         ECSHD/ESCPF                                           32393
2. Explain briefly the Expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Field Office staff to provide advisory support on procurement matters to PIU.



- 44 -
Annex 6
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Table E: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in            Financing
US$million          Percentage
Goods                                                      100% of foreign
(under Parts A and C of project)                     0.97  expenditures, 100%
(under Part B of project)                            0.23  of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditure for other
items procured
locally.
CQnsultant Services & Training                              100% (net of tax)
(Parts A and C of project)                          13.73
(Part B of the project)                              8.93
Incremental Operating Costs                                100% up to
12/31/99, 80% up to
12/31/2000; 60% up
to 12/31/2001; and
40% thereafter
(Parts A and C of project)                            1.16
(Part B of project)                                  0.37
IJnallocated                                         2.61
Total               28.00



- 45 -
Annex 6
Uzbiekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Table F: Disbursement Schedule
(US $ million equivalent)
FY 1999
Sept.                                 0.50                   0.50
Dec.                                  0.50                    1.00
March                                 0.50                    1.50
June                                  0.50                   2.00
FY2000
Sept.                                 1.20                   3.20
Dec.                                  1.20                   4.40
March                                 1.20                    5.60
June                                  1.20                    6.80
FY2001
Sept.                                 1.75                   8.55
Dec.                                  1.75                   10.30
March                                 1.75                   12.05
June                                  1.75                   13.80
FY2002
Sept.                                2.05                    15.85
Dec.                                  2.05                   17.90
March                                 2.05                   19.95
June                                  2.05                  22.00
FY2003
Sept.                                 1.80                  .23.80
Dec.                                  1.80                  25.60
March                                 1.80                  27.40
June                                  0.60                  28.00



- 46 -
Annex 7
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Loan
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
FY 1997       50
FY 1998      325
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              6/24/1997             6/24/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      11/10/1997            11/10/1997
Negotialtions                                    4/15/1998             4/15/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     7/1/1998               /__119
Preparecl by: GKI/WB
Preparation assistance: PHRD, Danish TF, TACIS
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name  Specialty
Itzhak Goldberg  Team Leader
Bahtier Abdullaev  Post Privatization
Igor Artemiev  Post Privatization
Ronald Hood  Trade/Fiscal
Loup Brefort Privatization
Michael Fuchs  Capital Markets
James Dick Welch  Case-by-Case Privatization
Seyoum Solomon  Procurement
Tariq Hassan  Legal
Subash Chandra  Disbursement



-47 -
Annex 8
Uzbekistan: Enterprise Institution Building Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation P?lan.
B. Bank Staff Assessments and Details on enterprise visits.



-48 -
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uzbekistan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original Amount in USS Millions
Loan or      Fiscal
Project ID      Credit No.     Year                   Borrower                              Purpose
iBRD          IDA          Canceltations      Utidisb
Number of Closed Loans/credirls: I
Active Loans
UZ-PE-9121        iBRD421tiO      1998    REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN                   RURAL W.S. & SANITA.                     75.00         0.00               0.00
UZ-PE44942        iBRD40900       1997    REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN                   PILOT WATER SUPPLY                        5.00         0.00               0.00
UZ-PE-9122        iBRD38940       1995    REP.OF UZBEKISTAN                        COTTON SUB-SEC IMPRV                     66.00         0.00               0.00
UZ-PE-9123        IBRD36500       1994    REPUB. OF UZBEKISTAN                     INSTIT BLDG[rA                           21.00         0.00               0.00
Total                                                                                                                      167.00         0.00                0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans               Ioa
Total Disbursed (iBRD and IDA):                           24.91                  160.00                 14.91
of which has been repaid:                               0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Total now held by 0BRD and IDA:                           167.00                 160.00                  327.00
Amount sold                                                 0.00                   0.00                    0.00
Of which repaid     :                                     0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed      :                                  142.09                   0.00                  142.09
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system
will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU  highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:                                                       a
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 49-
Annex 10
Country at a Glance
P:\UZBEKIST\PFSD\ENT-RESTF\L.ENN\UZBEKPAD.DOC



MASECTO



