Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4353 UZ
Loan Agreement
(Enterprise Institution Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 10, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4353 UZ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary Enterprises” means the privatized enterprises selected for 
post privatization assistance under Part A of the Project pursuant to paragraph 3 of 
the Attachment to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
“CCPB” means Case-by-Case Privatization Bureau established by MoF and GKI 
pursuant to the Resolution.
(c)
“CSM” means the Center on Coordination of Functioning and Control of the 
Securities Market established by the Decree of the President of the Republic of 
Uzbekistan, dated March 26, 1996.
(d)
“EIBB” means the Enterprise Institution Building Bureau established by 
MoF and GKI pursuant to the Resolution.
(e)
“GKI” means the Committee on Management of the State Property and 
Enterpreneurship Support of the Republic of Uzbekistan and includes any successor or 
successors thereto.
(f)
“MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and includes any 
successor thereto.
(g)
“NDV” means the Borrower’s National Depository, called “Vakt”, for the 
registration of securities.
(h)
“PIAs” means the Project Implementation Arrangements, among MoF, GKI and 
EIBB and MoF, GKI and CCPB, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
as such arrangements may be modified from time to time with the prior written consent 
of the Bank.
(i)
“PIFs” means the Privatization Investment Funds established under the 
Regulation.
(j)
“Regulation” means Regulation No. 220 of the Borrower’s Cabinet of 
Ministers, dated June 18, 1996, entitled “On Measures for Arranging Operations of 
Investment Funds”, as may be amended with the concurrence of the Bank.
(k)
“Resolution” means the Resolution, dated April 22, 1998, No. 170 of the 
Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers, as may be amended with the concurrence of the Bank.
(l)
“Selected Enterprises” means the enterprises offered and selected for 
privatization under Part B of the Project pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(m)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(n)
“Supervisory Board” means the Supervisory Board established under the 
Resolution.
(o)
“TSE” means the Tashkent Stock Exchange, a joint-stock company, 
established and existing pursuant to its Charter under the applicable laws of the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-eight million Dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Page  3
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes Parts A and C and Part B of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars two separate special deposit accounts, Special 
Account A and Special Account B respectively, in a bank or banks, acceptable to the 
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account A for Parts A and C of the Project and Special Account B for 
Part B of the Project shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedules 6 
and 7 respectively to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and C of the Project through EIBB and Part B of the Project through CCPB, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and business practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 15, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has, through MoF and GKI, entered into PIAs with EIBB and 
CCPB in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers has adopted a resolution, including a 
list of 200 enterprises whose shares can be sold to PIFs, acceptable to the Bank, 
amending its Resolution No. 220 of June 18, 1996 entitled: “On Measures for Arranging 
Operations of Investment Funds”.
(c)
The Borrower has appointed a financial manager, acceptable to the Bank, 
to review the Borrower’s financial management system for the Project in accordance 
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mustakillik Square 5
Tashkent 700078
Republic of Uzbekistan
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By /s/ Jamshed Saifiddinov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. Roider 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
100%
and training
(a) under Parts A and
   13,730,000
C of the Project
(b) under Part B of
    8,930,000
Page  7
the Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
(a) under Parts A
      970,000
of local expendi-
and C of the
tures (ex-factory
Project
cost) and 80% of
local expnditures
(b) under Part B 
      230,000
for other items
of the Project
procured locally
(3)
Incremental operating
100% up to
costs
December 31, 1999;
80% up to December
(a) under Parts A and
31, 2000; 60% up to
C of the Project
December 31, 2001;
and 40% thereafter
(b) under Part B of
the Project
(4)
Unallocated
     2,610,000
TOTAL
    28,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by CCPB and EIBB on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including salaries of their local personnel (but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower), office rental and furniture, utility services, audit, 
equipment operation and maintenance, office supplies, local travel and supervision 
costs based upon an annual budget acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000 may be made in respect of Categories 1(b), 2(b) and 3 set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after December 31, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent for goods, $10,000 equivalent for services of individual 
consultants, and $100,000 equivalent for services of consulting firms, $50,000 
equivalent for incremental operating costs, and training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve efficiency of privatized 
enterprises; (b) support the implementation of the Borrower’s policy of case-by-case 
privatization to improve enterprise efficiency and attract foreign know-how and 
capital; (c) enhance effectiveness of capital markets, widen public participation 
therein and protect shareholders; and (d) strengthen the institutional capacity to 
facilitate enterprise reform, consistently with the Resolution.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
Page  8
objectives:
PART A:
Post Privatization Advisory Services
1.
Carrying out of diagnostic studies of Beneficiary Enterprises aimed at 
identifying and prioritizing the enterprises’ needs for advisory services and 
assessing their receptivity to consulting services. 
2.
Preparation of terms of reference for and provision of advisory services to 
Beneficiary Enterprises in respect of or relating to their rehabilitation and 
restructuring, including the development of their marketing strategy and quality 
management systems, provision of partner search, upgrade of products to international 
standards, and implementation of modern accounting, financial and commercial 
management systems, and preparation of feasibility studies for presentation to credit 
institutions.
3.
Strengthening of EIBB through the provision of consultants’ services, computers 
and office equipment and development of local consultant companies.
PART B:
Case-by-Case Privatization
1.
Provision of advisory services, including services by investment banks, for 
managing case-by-case privatization of Selected Enterprises, analyzing their 
investment requirements and, if appropriate, preparing their shares for public 
placement on the stock markets, including the public relations required for such 
placement.
2.
Strengthening of CCPB through the provision of consultants’ services, computers 
and office equipment.
PART C:
Capital Market Development
1.
Development of the CSM by providing assistance in the regulation of securities 
markets commensurate with international practices in areas, including: (a) the 
promotion of an active secondary market and the surveillance of the secondary market; 
(b) the promotion of disclosure and information exchange in such areas as listing and 
quotation of shares, the financial status of issuers, prices and turnover and trading 
information (prices, bids and offers); and (c) on-the-job training and twinning with 
other regulatory authorities for the staff of the CSM.
2.
Provision of assistance to support the development of secondary trading in the 
TSE and over the counter market, including: (a) development of systems for the 
exchange of information on market activity; (b) advice on issues which may hinder 
share trading such as corporate finance, availability of reliable information on 
corporate activities and earnings, and identification and resolution of other 
impediments to corporate governance/restructuring; and (c) advice on methods for 
supporting the development of trade in shares in unlisted corporations.
3.
Technical upgrade of the operating practices and computer systems of the NDV 
with a view to supporting improvements in key areas, including: (a) the legal 
framework of the NDV; (b) linking securities transfer to cash transfer; (c) the 
reduction of settlement times and fees; (d) risk management; (e) legal issues related 
to securities settlement; (f) establishing electronic links with the CSM, the TSE and 
the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (the settlement agent); and (g) increased customer 
orientation through the establishment of user groups and objectives for customer 
services.
4.
Provision of training of the staff of the CSM, TSE and NDV, under the auspices 
of the CSM acting as coordinator, in relevant fields, including finance, risk 
management and corporate and financial law.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  9
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
December 15, 2003
595,000 
June 15, 2004
610,000 
December 15, 2004
630,000 
June 15, 2005
645,000 
December 15, 2005
665,000 
June 15, 2006
685,000 
December 15, 2006
705,000 
June 15, 2007
725,000 
December 15, 2007
750,000 
June 15, 2008
770,000 
December 15, 2008
795,000 
June 15, 2009
815,000 
December 15, 2009
840,000 
June 15, 2010
865,000 
December 15, 2010
890,000 
June 15, 2011
920,000 
December 15, 2011
945,000 
June 15, 2012
975,000 
December 15, 2012
     1,000,000 
June 15, 2013
     1,030,000 
December 15, 2013
     1,060,000 
June 15, 2014
     1,095,000 
December 15, 2014
     1,125,000 
June 15, 2015
     1,160,000 
December 15, 2015
     1,195,000 
June 15, 2016
     1,230,000 
December 15, 2016
     1,265,000 
June 15, 2017
     1,300,000 
December 15, 2017
     1,340,000 
June 15, 2018
     1,375,000
_________________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for computers shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  10
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract under Part B of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts under Part C of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply:  
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Page  11
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for consultants under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection of Particular Types of Consultants
Services of investment banks for the case-by-case privatization under Part B of 
the Project shall, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.17 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-Cost Selection
Audit services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services of consultants for EIBB, under Parts A and C of the Project, and CCPB, 
under Part B of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  12
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Project shall be carried out by EIBB and CCPB under the general supervision 
and guidance of the Supervisory Board.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall, through MoF and GKI, enter into Project 
implementation arrangements with EIBB and CCPB on terms and conditions, satisfactory 
to the Bank, including those specified in the Attachment to this Schedule.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause MoF and GKI to exercise its rights under the 
PIAs in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the PIAs or any provision thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall cause MoF and GKI to, until completion of the Project, 
maintain EIBB and CCPB with qualified and experienced staff, acceptable to the Bank, 
in adequate numbers and provide them with such funds, facilities, and other resources 
as may be required for the implementation of their respective parts of the Project.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall offer the following enterprises for privatization 
under Part B of the Project: (i) Almalyk Mining and Metallurgical Kombinat; (ii) 
UzCabel (Power & Telecommunication Cables); (iii) Andizhan Cable; (iv) Okhangoron 
Cement; (v) Kuvasai Cement; and (vi) Nishanpakhtatozlash.
(b)
In addition to the enterprises listed in subparagraph (a) hereof, CCPB 
shall, by December 31 each year commencing in 1998, select in consultation with the 
Bank, at least five other enterprises for privatization under Part B of the Project 
for each following year in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank.
(c)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the term “privatization” means 
the transfer of ownership, control or management of State Enterprises to the private 
sector through the sale of assets of, equity capital in, or the transfer of management 
control over a State Enterprise to the private sector, including the sale of a 
business as a going concern. The term “State Enterprise” means those legal entities 
that are significantly owned or controlled by the Borrower either directly or 
indirectly through another legal entity significantly owned or controlled by the 
Borrower. The term “significantly” represents twenty five percent or more shares in an 
enterprise.
5.
In consideration of the objectives of privatization supported by the Bank, the 
Borrower undertakes and agrees not to permit: (a) purchase by any entities directly or 
indirectly owned or controlled by it (including the Associations) of shares which have 
been acquired by PIFs at the special PIF auctions pursuant to the Regulation, or (b) 
enterprises to repurchase their own shares that have been acquired by PIFs as 
mentioned in sub-clause (a) hereof. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term 
“Associations” has the same meaning ascribed thereto in Article 77 of the Borrower’s 
Civil Code, 1997, insofar as it relates to associations established by entities 
directly owned or controlled by the Borrower and includes any other entities owned or 
controlled by the Borrower.
Attachment to Schedule 5
Terms and Conditions of Project Implementation Arrangements
General Obligations
1.
(a)
EIBB shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project and CCPB shall carry 
out Part B of the Project on behalf of the Borrower under the general supervision and 
guidance of the Supervisory Board.
(b)
EIBB and CCPB shall carry out their respective parts of the Project under 
Page  13
the PIAs in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, agreed with the Bank, in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
EIBB and CCPB shall maintain their accounts and carry out their audits in 
respect of their respective parts of the Project consistent with the provisions of 
Article IV of this Agreement.
Post Privatization Advisory Services under Part A of the Project
3.
EIBB shall, with the prior written consent of the Bank, select enterprises for 
participation under Part A of the Project: (a) that have been designated by the 
Borrower for investment by PIFs, or (b) on the basis, inter alia, of the following 
criteria:
(i)
Enterprises which are majority owned or controlled by shareholders 
other than 
the Borrower or any person (including corporate entities) 
representing the 
interest of the Borrower or any entities 
majority owned or controlled by the 
Borrower.
(ii)
Enterprises 30 percent of the shares of which are either owned or 
controlled 
by outside shareholders. The term “outside shareholders” 
means (1) 
shareholders other than the Borrower or any 
other entity or individual 
representing the interest of the 
Borrower, or (2) non-employee shareholders.
(iii)
Enterprises that are willing to enter into an agreement with EIBB 
to 
collaborate with consultants and pay a share of the costs of 
their advisory 
services (25 percent).
(iv)
Enterprises whose improvements in profitability can be achieved 
initially, 
within the constraints of existing equipment and 
technology, through 
management, organizational, accounting, 
financial and marketing improvements.
(v)
Enterprises that are not subject to control by the Associations as 
regards 
their inputs and outputs (such as price control, 
restrictions on sales, 
dependence on monopoly state-owned 
supplier).
4.
EIBB shall:
(a)
estimate the costs of advisory services of consultants for each case and 
have the same approved by the Bank; and
(b)
enter into contracts, on behalf of the Borrower, with the Beneficiary 
Enterprises and consultants on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including 
the following:
(i)
EIBB shall be responsible for direct payment of 100 percent of the 
fees and 
expenses of the advisory services to the consultants 
selected for the 
assignment.
(ii)
EIBB shall, unless otherwise agreed by the Supervisory Board, 
recover from the 
Beneficiary Enterprises 25 percent of the total 
advisory services costs paid 
to the consultants.
5.
EIBB shall use the proceeds collected from the contribution of the Beneficiary 
Enterprises to cover EIBB’s operating costs. The Borrower/MoF shall provide the 
necessary funds to cover the remaining portion of the costs in case the proceeds 
collected from the Beneficiary Enterprises are not sufficient to cover EIBB’s 
operating costs.
Case-by-Case Privatization under Part B of the Project
6.
CCPB shall:
(a)
engage: (i) a senior privatization advisor to assist in organizing the 
Page  14
tenders and other related activities in the case-by-case privatization transactions; 
and (ii) a senior legal advisor to assist in negotiating contracts between the 
Borrower and the investment banks selected for case-by-case privatization transactions 
pursuant to paragraph (b) hereof, and to provide other legal advice relating to these 
transactions as required; and
(b)
select an international investment bank or banks (“Investment Bank”, 
which term shall include the consortium of other advisors, such as legal advisors, 
technical advisors, auditors and accounting firms, led by said bank or banks, as the 
case may be) for each case-by-case privatization transaction on the basis of criteria 
agreed with the Bank, including the following:
(i)
The Investment Bank has, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower 
and the Bank, 
been the lead advisor to various governments in at 
least five successful 
case-by-case privatizations with 
receipts of at least $25 million each.
(ii)
The reputation of the Investment Bank is of a high standard, as 
mutually 
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.
(c)
engage the Investment Bank to undertake a three phase privatization 
process on behalf of the Selected Enterprises, as specified in sub-paragraph (d) 
hereof, under terms of reference and on terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank, 
including the following:
(i)
The contract with the Investment Bank shall cover all three 
phases, including 
sale.
(ii)
The Borrower understands and agrees that if the Borrower/CCPB 
terminates its 
contract with the Investment Bank and selects another 
investment bank not 
approved by the Bank, the Bank may 
suspend further disbursements under Part B 
of the Project. The 
Borrower/CCPB shall, in such case, reimburse to the Bank 
the fees paid 
to the Investment Bank with the proceeds of the Loan.
(d)
submit reports to the Bank as follows: Phase 1: the report of the 
Investment Bank on its initial evaluation of the potential for privatization of the 
Selected Enterprises; Phase 2: the report of the Investment Bank on the valuation of 
the Selected Enterprises, the options for its sale and the recommended sales option; 
restructuring and efficiency enhancing options; and investment requirements; and Phase 
3: (i) the sales process for the Selected Enterprises recommended by the Investment 
Bank and that adopted by the Borrower; (ii) the criteria of selection for a winning 
tender as developed by the Investment Bank and that adopted by the Borrower; and (iii) 
the evaluation of the tender offers and the Borrower’s reasons for selection of a 
winning bidder; and
(e)
engage regulatory advisers, with the prior written consent of the Bank, 
in case Selected Enterprises are monopolies or in sectors that raise major policy 
issues, to separately examine and report on regulatory questions prior to a possible 
privatization sale.
7.
The Borrower shall, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refrain from changing 
either the share structure or selling or otherwise distributing the shares of the 
companies proposed for the case-by-case privatization under Part B of the Project 
until the investment banker engaged pursuant thereto proposes a change in the 
structure or sale or distribution as part of the agreed privatization plan.
Capital Market Development under Part C of the Project
8.
EIBB shall:
(a)
engage consultants to assist in designing a detailed, strategic 
implementation plan which clearly identifies the needs of CSM, NDV and TSE under Part 
C of the Project and a well-coordinated time-plan for the provision of the required 
equipment and services to them; and
(b)
seek the Bank’s approval of the strategic implementation plan developed 
Page  15
under sub-paragraph (a) above and solicit bids for a contract for complete equipment 
and services to be supplied under Part C of the Project (if it is found expedient by 
the Borrower and the Bank to execute a separate contract for computer hardware and 
software equipment, the EIBB shall take responsibility for ensuring that the provision 
of advisory and computer support services is closely coordinated with the procurement 
of equipment).
9.
The Supervisory Board shall act as a coordinator and ensure cooperation among 
CSM, NDV, TSE and the consultants.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account A for Parts A and C of the Project
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1(a), 2(a) and 3(a) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into Special Account A pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$50,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$150,000.
2.
Payments out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special Account A 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish Special Account A shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into Special Account A of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into Special Account A such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of Special Account A, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank 
requests for deposits into Special Account A at such 
intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into Special Account A 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of Special Account 
A for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account A, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Page  16
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into Special Account A:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in Special Account A as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
Special Account A: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into Special 
Account A (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into Special Account A 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in Special Account A will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in Special Account A.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account B for Part B of the Project
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1(b), 2(b) and 3(b) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
Page  17
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation”  means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into Special Account B pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$50,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$150,000.
2.
Payments out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special Account B 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish Special Account B shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into Special Account B of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into Special Account B such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of Special Account B, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank 
requests for deposits into Special Account B at such 
intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into Special Account B 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of Special Account 
B for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account B, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into Special Account B:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
Page  18
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in Special Account B as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
Special Account B: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into Special 
Account B (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into Special Account B 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in Special Account B will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in Special Account B.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
