Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
   Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
December 27, 2001 
 
His Excellency 
Mr. Mamarizo Nurmurodov 
Minister of Finance  
Ministry of Finance 
Tashkent 
Republic of Uzbekistan 
 
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN: Enterprise Institution Building Project (Loan No. 4353 UZ) 
 Amendment to the Loan Agreement 
 
Excellency: 
 
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Enterprise Institution Building
 
Project) dated July 10, 
1998, between the Republic of Uzbekistan (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). We also refer to your letter dated May 8, 2001 
requesting certain amendments to the Loan Agreement. 
 
We hereby confirm the Bank’s agreement to the amendment set forth in the Annex to this 
letter. 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment set forth in the Annex to this letter by 
countersigning, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  This amendment will 
become effective as of  the date of countersignature upon receipt of the countersigned copy of this 
letter by us.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
/s/ Kazuko Ogawa 
 
Acting Country Director 
 Uzbekistan 
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN 
 
By: Mamarizo Nurmurodov 
Title:   Minister of Finance 
 
Date: 1/12/2002 
Page  2
ANNEX  
to Letter dated  
December 27, 2001 
 
AMENDMENT  
TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT (LOAN NO. 4353 UZ) 
 
1. 
Section 1.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement is revised to read as follows: 
 
“(a) Beneficiary Enterprises” means: (i) the privatized enterprises selected for post 
privatization assistance under Parts A3. and A.4 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 3 of the Attachment to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) the state-owned 
enterprises selected for restructuring by EIBB under Part A.1 of the Project pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 3(c) of the Attachment to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Section 1.02 (l) of the Loan Agreement is revised to read as follows: 
 
“(l) 
“Selected Enterprises” means the enterprises offered and selected for 
privatization under Parts A and B of the Project pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.” 
 
3. 
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is revised to read as 
follows: 
 
Amount of the  
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants’ 
services 
 
100% 
 and 
training 
 
(a) 
under Parts A and 
13,730,000 
 
C
of
the Project 
 
(b) 
under Part B of 
8,930,000 
 
the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
(a) 
under Parts A and 
970,000 
100% of local 
 
C
of
the Project 
 
expenditures (ex- 
 
(b) 
under Part B of the 
230,000 
factory cost) and 
 
Project 
 
80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items 
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Incremental operating 
 
100% up to 
 costs 
 
 
December 
31, 
 
1999,
80% up to 
 
(a) 
under Parts A and 
765,000 
December 31, 
 
C
of
the Project 
 
2000, 60% up to 
 
December 31, 
Page  3
2001, and 40% 
 
thereafter 
 
(b) 
under Part B of 
765,000 
100% up to 
 
the Project 
 
December 31, 
 
1999,
80% up to 
 
December 31, 
 
2001,
60% up to 
 
December 31, 
 
2002,
and 40% 
 
thereafter 
 
(4) Unallocated 
2,610,000
TOTAL 
28,000,000”
4. 
Part A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is revised to read as follows: 
 
“Part A:   Restructuring, Privatization and Post Privatization Advisory Services 
 
1. 
Provision of consulting services for the restructuring by EIBB of state-owned 
enterprises. 
 
2. 
Provision of consulting services, including services by financial advisors, for  
privatization of enterprises not selected for privatization under Part B of the Project. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of diagnostic studies of Beneficiary Enterprises aimed at identifying and 
prioritizing the enterprises’ needs for advisory services and assessing their receptivity 
to consulting services. 
 
4. 
Preparation of terms of reference for an provision of advisory services to Beneficiary 
Enterprises in respect of or relating to their rehabilitation and restructuring, including 
the development of their marketing strategy and quality management systems, 
provision of partner reach, upgrade of products to international standards, and 
implementation of modern accounting, financial and commercial management 
systems, and preparation of feasibility studies for presentation to credit institutions. 
 
5. 
Strengthening of EIBB through the provision of consultants’ services, computers and 
office equipment and development of local consultant companies.” 
 
 
5. 
 Part B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is revised to read as follows: 
 
“Part B: Case-by-Case Privatization
1. 
Provision of advisory services, including services by: (a) investment banks; and (b) 
financial advisors with the Bank’s prior approval, for managing case-by-case 
privatization of Selected Enterprises, analyzing their investment requirements and, if 
appropriate, preparing their shares for public placement on the stock markets, 
including the public relations required for such placement. 
 
2.   Strengthening of CCPB through the provision of consultants’ services, computers and 
office equipment.” 
Page  4
6.  Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part C of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement are revised to 
read as follows: 
 
“1.  Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultants under Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection of Particular Types of Consultants
Services of investment banks for the case-by-case privatization under Part B of the 
Project and services of financial advisors for privatization under Parts A and B of the Project, 
shall, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.17 of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
7. 
The heading of paragraph 3 of the Attachment to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is 
revised to read as follows: 
 
“Restructuring, Privatization and Post Privatization Advisory Services under Part A of the 
Project”. 
 
8. 
In paragraph 3 of Attachment to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the word “or” before 
the words “(b) on the basis, inter alia, of the following criteria:” is deleted and two new sub-
paragraphs (c) and (d) are added at the end of said paragraph 3 of the Attachment to Schedule 5 to 
the Loan Agreement which read as follows: 
 
“(c)  state-owned enterprises selected for restructuring by the EIBB under Part A.1 of  the 
Project; or 
 
(d)  enterprises selected for privatization by EIBB under Part A.2 of the Project, which 
are not selected for inclusion in Part B of the Project.”  
 
9. 
Two new paragraphs 6 and 7 are added to the Attachment to Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement under the heading “Restructuring, Privatization and Post Privatization  Advisory 
Services under Part A of the Project” which read as follows: 
 
“6. 
The eligibility criteria and methodology for each privatization under Parts A.2  
and B.1 of the Project and the reporting requirements shall be agreed with the Bank in each 
particular case. 
 
7. 
EIBB shall select with the Bank’s prior approval financial advisors, such as 
commercial banks, financial, auditing and consulting firms, including, where appropriate, the 
consortium of other advisors, such as legal advisors, technical advisors, and accounting firms, led 
by said financial advisors, as the case may be, provided that the reputation of the financial advisor 
is of a high standard as mutually agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.” 
 
10. 
The earlier paragraph 6 of the Attachment to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement under 
the heading “Case-by-Case Privatization under Part B of the Project” is renumbered paragraph 8,  
the word “and” at the end of sub-paragraph (d) of said paragraph is deleted, the period at the end 
of sub-paragraph (e) of  said paragraph is replaced by a semi-colon and the word “and” is added, 
and a new sub-paragraph (f) is added at the end of said paragraph 8, which reads as follows: 
 
Page  5
“(f) 
only in cases where the Bank’s prior approval has been obtained, select financial 
advisors, such as commercial banks, financial, auditing and consulting firms, including, where 
appropriate, the consortium of other advisors, such as legal advisors, technical advisors, auditors 
and accounting firms, led by said financial advisor, as the case may be for each case-by-case 
privatization, provided that the reputation of the financial advisor is of a high standard as 
mutually agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.” 
 
11.  The earlier paragraph 7 of the Attachment to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is 
renumbered paragraph 9 and is revised to read as follows: 
 
“9. 
The Borrower shall, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refrain from changing 
either the share structure or selling or otherwise distributing the shares of the companies proposed 
for the case-by-case privatization under Part B of the Project until the investment banker or the 
financial advisor in cases agreed with the Bank, engaged pursuant thereto  proposes a change in 
the structure or sale or distribution as part of the agreed privatization plan.” 
 
Page  6
Cleared with and cc:  Gerhard Botha (ECSPF), John Ogallo, (LOAEL), Zoe Kolovou (LEGEC), 
Sunil Bhattacharya (ECSCS) 
 
