Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14702-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
May 3, 1996
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Sucre (SI.)
Official Exchange Rate Effective June 1995
US$1.00 = S/. 2,533.93
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)  =       2.205 pound (lb)
I hectare (ha)        =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (lum)            0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)           =       3.28 feet (ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AgGDP         - Agricultural Gross Domestic Product
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
CIAT          - Research Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIP           - International Potato Center
CIRAD         - International Center for Cooperation in Agronornic Research for
Development
CONUEP        - National Council for Universities and Polytechnics
COTESU        - Swiss Fund for Technical Cooperation
EA            - Environmental Assessment
ENAC          - State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
FUNDAGRO    - Foundation for Agricultural Development
GOE           - Government of Ecuador
GTT           - Technology Transfer Groups
IDB           - Inter-America Development Bank
LDRC          - International Development Research Center (Canada)
INDA          - National Institute for Agricultural Development
IDEA          - Institute for Agricultuwal Strategy
IERAC         - Ecuadorian Institute for Land Reform and Settlement
INERHI        - Ecuadorian Institute for Water Resources
INIAP         - National Institute for Agriculture and Livestock Research
ISNAR         - International Service for International Agricultural Research
MAG           - Ministry of Agriculture
NARS          - National Agricultural Research System
NGO           - Non-Government Organization
OM            - Operational Manual
PIU            - Project Implementation Unit
PRONADER    - National Rural Development Program
PROFOGAN    - Livestock Development Program
PROTECA       - Agricultural and Livestock Technology Development Program
SOE           - Statement of Expenditure
USAID         - U.S. Aid for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                          i
2. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND                                                        I
A. Macroeconomic Context                                                              1
B. Agriculture in the Economy                                                         2
C. Agricultural Institutions and Services                                             3
Research                                                                         3
Extension                                                                        4
Plant and Animal Health                                                          5
3. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                                                                5
A. Research Expenditures                                                              S
B. Government Agricultural Technology Strategy                                        6
Public Private Roles                                                             6
C. Bank Experience in Agricultural Sector Lending                                     7
4. THE PROJECT                                                                          8
A. Origin and Rationale for World Bank Involvement                                    8
B. Economic Evaluation                                                                9
C. Project Objectives  >                                                             11
D. Project DescrIlption                                                              11
A Diversified, Interactive and Competitive System                               11
This report is based on the work of a World Bank mnission which visited Ecuador between May 22 and
June 2 1995. The mnission comprised of Matthew A. McMahon (Task Manager), William B. Johnson
(Financial Analyst, LA3NR), and Ms. Nohelia Mejia (Consultant). The peer reviewers were:
Ms. Gabrielle Persley (ESDAR), and Ms. Andrea Silverman (LA2NR). The Division Chief is
Mr. Nicholas Kraffl and the Director is Mr. Paul Isenrnan.



Research Priorities                                                             12
Research - Extension Linkages                                                   13
E. Project Components                                                                13
Competitive Grants                                                              13
Strengthening INIAP                                                             14
Project Implementation Unit                                                     16
Status of Project Preparation: Project Year One                                 16
Project Costs and Financing                                                     17
Procurement                                                                     18
Disbursement and Special Account                                                19
Accounting and Auditing                                                         21
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                              21
Organization and Management                                                     21
Executive Council                                                               21
The Project Implementation Unit                                                 22
Management of the Competitive Grants                                            22
Peer Review Panel                                                               23
Operational Manual                                                              23
Processing Proposals for Competitive Research Grants, and Research and Education Exchange
Partnerships                                                                    24
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                       25
Project Benefits                                                                26
Project Risks                                                                   26
Environmental Impact                                                            26
Poverty Alleviation                                                             27
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                                       27
ANNEXES
I - Loan and Project Summary Costs                                              30
2 - Organization Chart                                                          33
3 - Ecuador's Agricultural Research System                                      34
4 - Economic Evaluation                                                         44
5 - Guidelines for the Competitive Research Grants Program and Research and Education
Exchange Partnerships                                                           52
6 - Priorities for Research                                                     61
7 - Key Performance Indicators for Project Monitoring                           70
8 - Key Performance Indicators for Project Impact Evaluation                    74
9 - Audit Requirements                                                          75
10 - Project Implementation Schedule                                            78
11 - Bank Staff Inputs for Project Supervision                                  82
12 - Documents on Project File                                                  83
MAP IBRD No. 27174



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Ecuador.
Implementing Agency:    Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Beneficiaries:           Farmers, growers associations, universities, and the private
sector.
Poverty:                 While the project is not a direct poverty intervention it has
important implications for rural poverty as the research
priorities being financed under the project are of importance
to small farmners as illustrated in the recent Ecuador Poverty
Report (June 30, 1995).
Loan Amount:             US$21.0 million, including US$1 million to be
financed retroactively.
Terms:                   To be repaid in 21 years, including 7 years of grace, with a
LIBOR based standard interest rate for single currency
loans.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.25.
Net Present Value:       An economic evaluation of both research and
extension, the latter being financed by IDB, gave an
estimated NPV of US$389 million, using a discount
rate of 12 percent.
Map:                     IBRD No. 27174
Project Identification
Number:                  EC-PA-7131






ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Macroeconomic Context
1.1         Prior to 1992, Ecuador discriminated against agriculture for most of thirty
years, as it followed an import substitution model of industrialization for economic
development. The effects of this policy, which included high tariffs, subsidized interest
rates and an expansionary fiscal policy, were accentuated by the petroleum boom of the
1970s that led to an overvalued exchange rate. The net result was that the model
subsidized industry and urban dwellers, and discriminated heavily against agriculture and
rural areas. Certain compensatory measures, such as subsidized credit, public sector
irrigation and mechanization subsidies benefited only a small group of select farmers.
1.2         The present Government has implemented a series of macroeconomic
policy reforms, building on thoseintroduced by Governments in the 1980s.1 Tariff and
non-tariff barriers to trade have been reduced substantially or removed, interest rates are
market determined, exchange rates are allowed to fluctuate, energy prices have been
increased, privatization of Government enterprises has started, and the Government has
followed a more conservative fiscal policy. In all, over 30,000 public sector jobs have
been eliminated.
1.3         The Government also has implemented some sectoral policy reforms for
agriculture, based on a program of modernization of the public sector. The state system
of agricultural price supports has been eliminated, except for a few export crops, and
storage silos sold or leased out. A new Agrarian Law has been passed which will make
land and water markets more efficient, and which eliminates the outdated land reform law.
IERAC (now INDA), the land titling agency, is in the process of being restructured.
Restrictions on agricultural exports have been removed. Irigation policy has been
reformed with; the substantial downsizing of INERHI, the regionalization of public
projects, the shifting of operation and maintenance of public systems to private water
users, and the introduction of mechanisms for greater cost recovery. In the area of
agricultural research, through a law passed by Congress in 1992, the National Institute for
Agriculture and Livestock Research (INIAP) was awarded administrative autonomy and
access to an endowment fund paid for by the National Treasury. Both the IDB and the
World Bank have strongly supported all of these reforms through the IDB Sector Loan,
and the World Bank Technical Assistance Project for Irrigation.
Whitaker, Morris D. and Duty Greene 1990. "Development Policy and Agriculture: An Historical
Perspective" in Agriculture and Economic Survival: The Role ofAgriculture in Ecuadors
Development. Edited by Morris D. Whitaker and Dale Colyer. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.



2
1.4         However, reforms to the sector are still not complete. Reference prices are
still being maintained for exports of coffee, cacao and bananas. ENAC still is involved in
price supports through the market for CDs. Water rights can only be transferred with
land, unless there is specific Government approval. And several Government agencies still
need to be restructured or privatized.
1.5         The net effect of the macroeconomic and sectoral reforms, referred to
above, is to increase incentives for agriculture and thereby create the conditions for it to
be a dynamic and sustainable contributor to the overall economy. This in turn, will
provide a much more positive basis upon which the modernization of the agricultural
research system can proceed. These changes will put new demands on the system and it's
on this basis that the project is designed.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
1.6         Agriculture is still the dominant sector of the Ecuadoran economy. In
1994 it accounted for 17 percent of GDP, 33 percent of foreign exchange earnings, and is
the major source of employment in the economy accounting for 35 percent of formal and
the bulk of informal employment. After a period of slow growth prior to 1980, the sector
has shown impressive growth over the past decade and a half, having risen from
13.2 percent in 1980 to 17 percent of GDP in 1994. However, physical growth came
almost exclusively from an expansion in area. Yield data for the seven principal crops
show that the average growth in production, between 1980 and 1992 was 3.58 percent per
annum, with area expansion at 4.55 percent and yields declining at a rate of -0.93 percent
per annum.2 The growth in animal production is also reflected in the increase in the area
dedicated to pastures, which has increased from 2.1 million ha in 1974 to 4.9 million ha in
1992.
1.7         Ecuadoran agriculture in general is characterized by low yields. A
comparison with Colombia, where the range of crops and growing conditions are similar,
shows yields of the main crops in Ecuador ranging from 52 percent to 27 percent lower
than those in Colombia. Even in the case of its main export crop, bananas, technology
levels fall will behind that of its main competitors. Under this scenario, with land
productivity declining and available land resources diminishing, the development strategy
must be changed to a "science-based" approach concentrating on the improvement of the
productivity of sustainable agricultural systems. This will be the challenge of this project.
2 Ecuador - Agricultural Sector Review 1992.



3
C. Agricultural Institutions and Services
Research
1.8         This activity is carried out by INIAP, universities and the private sector.
Annual expenditure is calculated at about US$7.4 million, with about 200 scientists being
engaged in conducting, supporting and managing research.
1.9         INIAP which was founded in 1959 as the research institute of the Ministry
of Agriculture has been the prime recipient of public funds for agricultural research. It has
seven research stations and a number of experimental farms and conducts research on
about thirty different crop and livestock species. Part of its land is used for seed
production and commercial farming. Over the years, from being a well-focused
organization that produced good results, it developed into a very weak organization that
maintained little of its original objectives. From the foundation of INIAP up to 1975,
public investments in agricultural research increased steadily, reaching a high of
0.85 percent of AgGDP in 1975. This level of investment compared very favorably with
that of other LAC countries. However, since then, public investments have been
drastically reduced and were only 0.25 percent of AgGDP in 1992. The result was a
serious decline in INIAPs executive and scientific capacity. Simultaneously, due to
political pressures it expanded its program beyond its budgetary capacity, reducing its
operational funds and making it very unattractive for good researchers to stay.
1.10        To overcome this downward spiral the Congress approved a law in 1992
giving INIAP administrative autonomy. Along with this autonomy it was assigned by law
an endowment fund of approximately US$10 million. This endowment fund is to be
added to yearly by the National Treasury. This autonomy - although the institute is still
almost totally dependent for its budget on the MAG - has brought many changes to the
organization. It has set its own salary scale, has reduced its personnel by about 30 percent
and is now developing a new set of research priorities. This is an ongoing process with
the objective of a smaller, better focused and more relevant institution. Following the
recent downsizing INIAP has six Ph.D., 65 M.S., and 123 other graduates (including
those in training) in a total staff of 433. Its 1995 budget is of the order of US$4.2 million
(see Annex 3).
1.11        In the case of universities, most have limited research equipment, lands
and libraries. Although there are 25 faculties of agricultural and veterinary science, many
faculty are part-time and of a total of 1,253 professional staff in 1992, only 70 had
M.S. degrees and nine had Ph.Ds. In theory, university research should be well funded by
the National Council for Universities (CONUEP) which is supposed to receive one
percent of GDP for research grants. In practice the Government has never met this
obligation and in 1992 CONUEP received only US$1.3 million or under 0.01 percent of
GDP. About 20 percent of this is allocated for projects in the agriculture sector. In



4
addition to CONUEP funds, some universities have been able to solicit funds from
international and local sources. These are usually for small projects (see Annex 3).
1.12         The participation of the private sector in the generation of technology has
been increasing in recent years. It now funds and executes research in a variety of
commodities, such as maize, banana, coffee, palm oil, horticultural crops, flowers, milk
processing and a variety of other activities. These activities are concentrated in the
applied end of the research spectrum such as the development of hybrid seeds, field testing
of agrochemical, in vitro reproduction of plant materials, etc., and are an important source
of ready to use technology. A recent study4 of private sector agricultural research identified
nine organizations that were involved in some depth, with 22 professionals and 24 technicians,
including three Ph.Ds and M.Scs. These are much smaller numbers of researchers than at
INIAP although their estimated 1991 annual budget (US$3.1 million) was 75 percent as large.
This was attributable to better salaries and a much higher technician to researcher ratio.
Research is also being carried out in Ecuador by foreign research institutes (e.g., CIRAD, CIP,
CIAT), usually in collaboration with INIAP and is often funded by donors such as COTESU,
USAID or IDRC (CEOD).
1.13         Farmers associations have not as yet been an important source of financing
for agricultural research. They usually place more emphasis on policy activities where
they defend the interests of their associates. However in some cases they have financed
agricultural extension in a very limited way. The Government is currently processing new
legislation to promote the formation of producer associations (gremios) and this could have a
mraor influence on the direction of research in the future. Financial support from farmers will
be critical for the long-term sustainability of the research system, because it is through such
support that farmers research needs can be expressed, leading to a more demand-driven
system.
Extension
1.14         Public agricultural extension in Ecuador exists since 1945, having been
financed under a variety of programs and donors. In recent times the largest effort in this
area has been the Agricultural and Livestock Technology Development Program
(PROTECA), which had an extension component, and which was financed by the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and executed by MAG. This project terminated in
September 1994. This program financed about 500 public extensionists to give technical
assistance to about 85,000 small and medium sized farmers. However, the MAG has not
institutionalized the system and when the project finished there were about 400 trained
extensionists available to be employed in other activities.
1.15         Besides PROTECA there have been other donor funded projects in
agricultural extension such as: the Research, Extension and Education Project funded by
4 Falcoi, Ccsa A. 1992, Public and Private Sector Interactions in Agricultural Research in Less-
Developed Countries: The Case ofEcuador. ISNAR.



5
USAID and executed by FUNDAGRO; the Technology Transfer Groups (GTT) funded
by Swiss Aid (COTESU) and executed by INIAP; the Livestock Development Program
(PROFOGAN) funded by the German Government and executed by MAG and some
universities; and the agricultural extension component of the PRONADER project funded
by the World Bank. For the past thirty years, many NGOs, both national and international
have been active in the area of agricultural extension. These organizations have worked
with the poorest farmers in the marginal areas.
1.16        IDB has prepared an agricultural extension project, as a part of the
Modernization of Agricultural Services Program, which also includes this project. The
extension project will focus both on competitive and small farmer agriculture. It aims to
increase the participation of the private sector by contracting implementation of the
project to private firms and in the case of competitive agriculture by introducing cost
recovery mechanisms which in the long run should lead to greater private sector
participation in the financing of the service.
Plant and Animal Health
1.17        These activities are presently executed by specific programs within MAG
under the direction of the Technical Subsecretary. Present activities of the Government
are concentrated in the areas of import and export quarantine, control of the movement of
animal and vegetable products, disease and pest control programs, register and control of
agriculture and veterinary products, diagnostic laboratories, control of packing houses and
the inspection of meat and other agricultural products. These services have been
characterized by the lack of operating budget and adequately trained personnel. Because
of this, the results have not been very good, with the entry of new pests and diseases
adding to the problems caused by the traditional endemic ones. There have been other
complications such as an increase in the residues of antibiotics, pesticides and other
contaminants found in food supplies. EDB has prepared a project for the establishment of
a new national Plant and Animal Health Service, as part of the Modernization of
Agricultural Services Program.
2. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Research Expenditures
2.1         The greater part of agricultural research in Ecuador is funded by the public
sector. Public expenditure on agricultural research can be justified for a number of
reasons, the three principal ones being: "market failure" because firms or individuals
cannot capture sufficient benefits to justify the investment; natural resource research which
benefits all of society; and social equity. As Ecuador looks to the future and the need to
increase its investments in agricultural research, neither the public nor the private sectors
alone will be capable of responding to the research needs of the sector. One of the



6
challenges will be to develop funding systems that use both public and private resources in
an efficient way.
2.2         Public investments in agricultural research (in INIAP and the universities)
have declined steadily in real terms since 1975. Public research expenditures as a share of
AgGDP also declined steadily after 1975 and were only .25 percent in 1993 compared to a
high of .85 percent in 1975. While no historical data are available on private sector
investments in agricultural research, it is clear that the sector has increased its investments
as Government support eroded. It is estimated that total (public plus private) research
investment in 1993 to be US$7.4 million or .43 percent of AgGDP, which is only slightly
above fifty percent of the level of public investment in 1975 (see Annex 3).
2.3         While there are empirical recommendations as to an appropriate level of
investment in agricultural research there is no simple formula available to determine how
much money should be invested and subjective judgment is relied on when making such
decisions. This being the case, then an important criterion for Ecuador should be the level
of investment of its competitors and short to medium term projections for investment
should be brought in line with these levels.
2.4         Even with private sector research, Ecuador has made very limited
investments in comparison to the rest of the developing world. Data for 52 developing
countries showed an average investment in agricultural research of .94 percent of AgGDP
during 1980-1985, up from .69 percent during 1970-1979. Thus, Ecuador sharply
reduced its investments in agricultural research while most of its competitors were
increasing their investments. Ecuador compares quite poorly with its regional trading
partners in terms of investments in agricultural research. According to IDB, in 1993 Peru
invested close to one percent of its AgGDP in agricultural research (not including private
sector investments) or four times more than Ecuador. Colombia also invested more than
Ecuador, at 0.5 percent of its AgGDP in 1991. These bordering countries are Ecuador
most important competitors in the Andean Pact, both for lucrative export markets in the
U.S. and Europe, and for provision of food and fiber supplies in the region. The fact that
Peru and Colombia are investing so much more in agricultural research puts significant
pressure on Ecuador to increase its investments and reform its research system (see
Annex 3).
B. Government Agricultural Technology Strategy
Public Private Roles
2.5         Research activities are spread across a continuum that ranges from basic at
one end through strategic and applied research to adaptive research at the other end.
Depending on the appropriability of the results and the level of risk involved, private and
public sectors can participate and interact along that continuum. Practice has shown that
private sector efforts are more concentrated in the applied and adaptive end of the
continuum whereas public funding focuses on basic and strategic research activities along



7
with areas that have to do with social equity, poverty alleviation and the environment. In
an effective system public and private research complement each other, because each
sector is involved in different types of activities along the research spectrum. Historically,
public investment has been the springboard for private involvement in research in
developed countries.
2.6         It is generally accepted that in countries with the same level of
development as Ecuador that there is a large public good component in agricultural
research. However, as the economy develops further the private sector will participate to
an increasing degree. It is important to define in principle the public good component of
research and to have funding mechanisms in place that can respond to the system as it
evolves to increasing private sector participation.
2.7          The strategy of the present Government is to revitalize the agricultural
research system by; increasing overall funding and putting in place incentives, in the form
of funding mechanisms, that will increase the participation of other organizations (private
sector, universities and NGOs) both in the implementation and financing of research.
C. Bank Experience in Agricultural Sector Lending
2.8         Bank projects in Ecuador have repeatedly encountered weaknesses in
public sector management and coordination. These include excessive bureaucracy,
inadequate personnel incentive structures, and shortages of trained people at all levels.
The institutional capacity to absorb technical assistance is frequently limited. Leadership
mandates are often superficial and/or fleeting and agency management turns over
frequently. Projects require the explicit definition of issues and objectives during
identification and preparation, and a tight focus on a limited number of components.
Careful attention is needed to limiting the longer-term burden on the recurrent budget, and
human resource development should be given high priority. Regular, intensive supervision
is needed to keep components on track.
2.9         The Bank has supported and continues to support agricultural research in a
number of ways; as freestanding research projects, as components in rural development
projects, in education projects and in policy-based lending. Since the beginning of FY78
the Bank has been involved in freestanding research projects with total project costs of
US$3.8 billion and a loan amount of US$1.7 billion. Research components in other
projects have cost close to US$2.0 billion with a loan amount of US$0.5 billion.
According to the OED database, the results have been relatively favorable with 78 percent
rated as "satisfactory". Despite this positive rating common problems have been identified
across the range of projects. These problems are; inadequate counterpart funding,
overdimensioning in relation to prospective resources, lack of capacity to plan and set
research priorities, and lack of demand driven research.



8
3. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Rationale for World Bank Involvement
3.1         The 1992 Ecuador Agricultural Sector Review highlighted three broad
problems facing the agricultural sector: (i) unrealized sectoral growth; (ii) deforestation
and soil erosion from rapid expansion of the crop and livestock frontiers, raising serious
concerns about the sustainability of sectoral growth; and (iii) acute and widespread rural
poverty. This project addresses (i) and (ii) through strengthening the agricultural research
system so as to increase productivity and thereby have more efficient growth and less
exploitation of the natural resource base. While it is not a direct poverty intervention it
has important implications for rural poverty as the research priorities, i. e., rice, potatoes,
maize, etc., being financed under the project are of importance to small farmers as
illustrated in the recent Poverty Report (June 30, 1995). As the project is expected to
increase agricultural productivity it will also increase economic opportunities in rural areas
and halt the deterioration of the natural resource base which is tightly linked to rural
poverty. Through increased food production it will also maintain an adequate supply of
cheap food for poor consumers. This project is fully consistent with the CAS that is being
presented to the Board on April 4, 1996, and would support three of the broad objectives
for Ecuador: poverty alleviation, by focusing research on basic food commodities grown
by resource poor farmers; institutional strengthening, by modernizing INRAP through its
Development Plan; and private sector development, by opening research funding to a
range of institutions, including foundations, universities and NGOs.
3.2          The project is a component of the Modernization of Agricultural Services
Program by the Ministry of Agriculture. The other two components, Technology
Transfer and Plant and Animal Health are being financed separately by IDB for a total
project cost of US$41 million (paras. 1.16 and 1.17). The overall program which will be
managed by the Project Implementation Unit within MAG, is aimed at strengthening the
range of public services needed for a modern and competitive agricultural sector.
3.3         The justification for public investments in agricultural research is that some
of the results of such an activity are public goods. Private agents do not have the full
incentives to invest in such goods. Public subsidies, rather than full cost recovery from
agricultural producers benefiting from research are also justified, because benefits from
such research flow to consumers and the environment. They flow to consumers via long-
term commodity price decreases which affect the poorer classes disproportionately in a
beneficial way, and the environment benefits through more efficient use of natural
resources. This latter is very important in Ecuador as most of its agricultural growth in
the last fifteen years has come from expanding area under cultivation and pastures thereby
increasing erosion and lowering biodiversity. Under the economic framework of more
open markets and increased trade, Ecuador will be under increased pressure to modernize
its agriculture and compete internationally. Because of new developments in science, of
which the country has not taken advantage for at least fifteen years, and the present low
productivity levels (see Annex 3), the agricultural research system is presented with new



9
demands and also opportunities to lead the sector in renewed and efficient growth. This
project will assist in orienting this public investment to more efficient uses in line with the
Governments objectives for agricultural research.
3.4          Support for the project is also warranted on the basis of past results.
Although support for agricultural research has unstable and declining over the past twenty
years in Ecuador, the system has been successful in general and in some areas has made
major contributions. Joint research on rice by INIAP, universities and international
agencies resulted in returns of 34 percent between 1970 and 1990. A series of related
studies carried out by INIAP with support from ISNAR and FUNDAGRO revealed the
following rates of return to research investments: hard corn, 70 percent; African palm,
32 percent; potatoes, 33 percent; soybeans, 17 percent; and wheat, 29 percent.5 An
economic evaluation of both research and extension, the latter being financed by IDB, was
carried out as part of the initial preparation. This study gave an internal rate of return of
44.5 percent based on certain assumptions as to changes in productivity and prices. There
are limitations on the validity of such an evaluation, since not all productivity increases can
be attributed directly to research and extension alone, and the assumptions are based on
data from past experience. The full results of the economic evaluation are available in the
project file (Annex 11).
B. Economic Evaluation
3.5          Economic analysis for the project has been carried out to test its economic
viability. A multiple criteria model has been utilized in light of the fact that agricultural
research is focused upon different objectives such as: economic growth, distribution of
income and sustainability; multiple criteria models seem to be more appropriate to
evaluate the attainment of different objectives. The model used (MODEXC, developed in
1990 by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture) is a partial equilibrium model
which evaluates the direct benefits of new technology and associated income distribution
results.
3.6          The social benefits and costs for each technological option are estimated
and benefits of each technology are distributed among specific activities (such as genetic
improvements or new fertilization systems). This process allows estimation of economic
efficiency for each activity.
3.7          The selection of commodities considered under the analysis is based on the
relative weight that each commodity holds in the gross national agricultural product
(GNAP). The GNAP used in this case represents the average for years 1991 through
1993. The result is a group of 16 products that accounts for over 90 percent of the total
aggregate value of domestic production. Based on INIAP historical data, average annual
growth rate and price projections are estimated for each commodity (see Annex 4 for
5 INIAP 1993 Retorno a las Inversiones en Investigacidn Agropecuaria Quito: Direccidn de
Planificaci6n.



10
details). These projections have been incorporated in the economic model in order to
estimate overall technology benefits.
3.8         Assumptions regarding the following have also been included in the model:
(a) exogenous growth and demand rates for commodities; (b) the consumption structure
of commodities relative to beneficiary incomes; (c) farm data representative of
beneficiaries; (d) yields of new and present technologies; (e) the time required to
implement and adopt new technologies; (f) the area to which new technologies are
applied; (g) research required to obtain new technologies and the probability of success for
such research; and (h) research and technology costs. This data allows for the estimation
of increased production because of technological change and its adoption by farmers. This
is purely technical information, taken directly at INIAP's research stations, from
interviews with different commodity research specialists.
3.9         Based on the above, the model estimates producers and consumer
surpluses, separating those that can be ascribed to technological factors. The benefits
ascribed to the project are estimated to be only thirty percent of the surpluses, multiplied
by the probability of success (about 75 to 80 percent) for each technology through the
research and transfer process. As demonstrated in Annex 4, net benefits from the project
are estimated at nearly US$176 million in year 15. Considering benefit flows for all years
and the project costs, the NPV for the project is estimated at about US$389 million, using
a discount rate of 12 percent. The ERR is estimated at 52 percent. These results are in
line with numerous ex post studies regarding the impact of agriculture research and
technology projects in Latin America and worldwide.
3.10        In addition to the overall project benefits estimation, the impact of
technology application on international trade has been measured. Trade would improve
significantly, considering that most commodities under the analysis can be exported.
Based on the consolidated results of MODEXC, it is estimated that the trade surplus for
these products could grow by 49 percent in the year 2000 and at the end of the project it
could more than triple.
3.11        Finally, sensitivity analysis has been carried out for the project to test the
impact of either overall income decreases or increases. As shown in Annex 4, by
decreasing benefits such that income resulting from the project fall by 20 percent, the
estimated internal rate of return would decline by eight percent. This represents a
reduction in the NPV of about US$95 million. Because of the relatively high NPV and
return benefits would have to fall by over 80 percent to obtain an NPV of zero. A
20 percent increase in overall costs yields similar NPV and IRR results. To obtain an
NPV of zero, costs would have to increase by nearly six times. While these results show
that project returns are sensitive to movements in overall benefits and costs, the returns
are high enough that a 20 percent unfavorable shift in either benefits or costs would not
produce negative overall results.



11
C. Project Objectives
3.12         The objective is to strengthen the national capacity to do agricultural
research, with an aim to increase agricultural productivity and output while preserving or
enhancing the natural resource base, by: (i) introducing a competitive research grant
program; (ii) developing Research and Education Exchange partnerships with intemational
science institutions; and (iii) strengthening the national agricultural research institute,
NIAP.
D. Project Description
A Diversfied, Interactive and Competitive System
3.13         To achieve the above objectives this project proposes to put in place a new
technology generation system for Ecuador. The project will create a research capacity
within the country that will result in a diversified, and interactive and sustainable research
system. Increasing or diversifying the number of suppliers of technology will by itself
bring more resources into the system and will provide a broader opportunity for private
funding sources to participate, thereby contributing to the sustainability of the system.
Through the competitive funding grants, opportunities will be provided for joint research
projects to be developed between research entities (research institutes, universities, NGOs
etc.), and the private sector. Giving the opportunity to farmers groups to cofinance such
projects will strengthen their ownership of the research system, along with their
participation on the executive council and their involvement in the discussions for priority
setting.
3.14         In the past, little has been done to encourage the integration of the three
main groups, INLAP, universities and farmers groups, that effectively make up the national
agricultural research system (NARS) in Ecuador. This all-inclusive concept of a NARS is
one of the underlying principles of this project. The project will incorporate the largest
number of research and interest groups as possible. This will help to assure that all
aspects of needed research can be covered and that the products will provide answers for
most relevant economic, social and environmental problems.
3.15         Another principle underlying this project is that of interaction. A modem
agricultural research system requires regular interaction among the various institutional
participants and scientists. Linkages between farmers and researchers need to be clearly
articulated, efficient and regular. Farmers must be able to communicate their concerns to
researchers quickly and systematically. Through participation in competitive funding
mechanisms farmers will be able to influence the research agenda. The various research
institutions must be able to affiliate with each other and work closely together in joint
research programs, when circumstances warrant. The project through special funding
mechanisms will develop these linkages and promote joint research programs between
institutions that will allow them to work together when their collective resources are
better able to resolve a problem than individual efforts (see Annex 4).



12
3.16         Another principle underlying this project is competition, which is a required
element for efficient production of new technical knowledge. The project will utilize the
concept of competition as the basis for allocating scarce research resources among
individual researchers and among research institutions. This will allow the system to be
more responsive to the needs of farmers and be more demand driven.
Research Priorities
3.17         Sectoral policy for agriculture in Ecuador encompasses the broad issues of
equity, efficiency, food security and natural resource conservation. When INIAP was
established in the mid-sixties its work program revolved around a set of priorities, which
were developed within the framework of national food self-sufficiency and thereby
concentrated on the basic food commodities. However, over the years the list of priorities
was added to indiscriminately through political pressure, and by researchers who set their
own research agenda.
3.18         In recent years, INIAP has sponsored in collaboration with ISNAR two
priority setting exercises to improve the objectivity of research resource allocation. For
the preparation of this project Fundacion IDEA used an economic surplus model
developed at CIAT (Colombia) to suggest research priorities. Although these three
studies resulted in somewhat different specific rankings of priorities there was a high level
of congruency between all studies when the top ten priorities were taken as a group. The
studies were also consistent in emphasizing that the most important commodities are those
from the coastal region. This reflects the change in agricultural production over the past
thirty years. These priorities have now been accepted by the MAG for funding under the
project (Annex 6). This exercise in priority setting should be regarded as an iterative
process of dialogue arnong all the interested parties; producers, Government, and research
organizations in order to have the flexibility to modify priorities as circumstances demand.
3.19         INIAP has used its priority setting exercises to establish a research
progran based on nine national, four regional programs and seven technical departments.
The nine national programs are: cattle and pastures, rice, corn, roots and tubers, coffee,
cacao, bananas and plantains, fruits, legumes and agroforestry. The four regional
programs are: Andean grains, soya, small grain cereals, and swine. The seven technical
departments are: soil and water, pest management, genetic resources, nutrition,
biometrics, economics and planning, and information.
3.20         Since the most important problems that have to be solved are of a practical
nature the research agenda to be financed under this project will concentrate on the
applied and adaptive end of the research spectrum. There will also be a strong orientation
towards products that make up the bulk of small farm production, such as plantains, rice,
potatoes, maize, coffee and cacao. Natural resource management research, i.e., soil and
water management, genetic resources, and pest management will also be funded.



13
Research - Ejtension Linkages
3.21        This project is part of an overall Modernization of Agricultural Services
Program being developed by the Ministry of Agriculture which also includes Agricultural
Extension and Plant and Animal Health, both of which are being financed by IDB.
Although they are being financed separately, there are operational linkages between
research and extension which will be financed by the extension component. These
linkages include the direct contracting of extension services by commercial farmers from
research entities and the technical training of extension agents by research organizations.
Since much of the research funded under this project will be applied and adaptive and will
include "on-farmn" research, the research-extension linkages will be further strengthened.
E. Project Components
3.22        The following components have been included in the project:
(a) Competitive Grants which include research grants, research and educational exchange
partnerships with international institutions; (b) Strengthening INIAP; and (c) Project
Implementation. The indicated costs are base costs.
Competitive Grants
3.23        This component (US$15,000,000) is divided into two subcomponents:
(a)   Research Grants (US$7,500,000) will finance individual research
subprojects, on an open competitive basis with variable grant support, up
to a maximum level of 75 percent of total subproject cost, a maximum
subproject cost of US$100,000 each and a maximum life of three years.
Researchers from universities, NGOs, and INIAP wili be eligible to
compete for research support in priority areas as established by MAG.
Private sector researchers will be eligible in partnership with one of these
entities, and with appropriate matching support. This competitive grant
system is proposed as a mechanism for: (a) increasing the efficiency of
allocation of funds for agricultural research; (b) assuring the participation
of scientists in agricultural research from among the several institutional
participants; and (c) strengthening interactive linkages between public and
private sector entities. In the process of judging the scientific merit of any
proposal for grant support, the following criteria, among others, will have
to be met:
* relevance of the proposal to national research priorities;
* basic capacity of the researcher to do the proposed research, i.e., level
of experience, sound technical approach, and facilities to do the work;



14
*  probability of successful outcome and intrinsic merit of the research,
i.e., will the results serve as the basis for improved technology or as a
solution for environmental problems that can be applied at the farm
level?; and
*  evidence that completing the research will strengthen capacity of the
proposer in the research area and stimulate further research, education
and development of manpower in agricultural sciences.
These subproject selection criteria, along with others, have been agreed
upon with the Bank and are included in the Operational Manual
(para. 4.11).
(b)   Research and Education Exchange Partnerships with International
Institutions (US$7,500,000) will finance on a competitive basis, the
formation of Research and Education Exchange partnerships between
research agencies, universities, key NGOs, and international science
institutions to facilitate the importation of applicable technology, to
strengthen the research capacity of Ecuadoran research institutions and to
strengthen graduate education programs in Ecuadoran universities.
Competitive grants of up to 50 percent for research and 100 percent for
scholarships will be awarded to selected participants. Each will be given in
high priority research areas. Grant funds will be used for joint research
programs, fellowships, short-term technical assistance, and personnel
exchanges. Appropriate criteria for awarding these grants will be part of
the OM (para. 4.11) and will include: the critical nature of the area of
research; potential contribution to strengthening the national research
capacity; and the sustainability of the relationship. It will also finance, on a
competitive basis, the strengthening of graduate teaching and research
programs based on partnerships with foreign universities as well as high
priority short-term training. In this way it will build on an important array
of individual faculty capacity scattered throughout the university/NGO
system.
Strengthening INALP
3.24         This component (US$6,500,000) will strengthen INIAP in the following
areas:
(a)   Development Plan (US$100,000). This plan which will be completed
within the first year of the project and will address the long term
sustainability of INIAP. The plan will include inter alia: the development
of a personnel policy; the assignment of personnel in compliance with the
research priorities to be financed; asset restructuring; role and management



15
of the endowment fund; and a financial plan. The Development Plan will
be used as a basis to develop monitorable indicators for use in the
Implementation Agreement to be signed by MAG and INIAP for the
execution of the MNIAP component. The signing of the Implementation
Agreement will be a condition of disbursement for the other
subcomponents that follow.
(b)   Training for Advanced Degrees (US$2,000,000). Fellowship Grants for
advanced degree training and short-term training will be provided in high
priority areas. Dissertation or thesis research will be done in Ecuador, as
part of INIAPs on-going research program. The scholarships will cover
the costs of tuition, living expenses, and travel.
(c)   Ecuadoran Scientists as Long-term Consultants (US$2,900,000). The
project will finance about 22 Ecuadoran research scientists (10 Ph.Ds and
12 Masters) at local consulting salaries. This will jump-start the research
program of INIAP that is now depleted of qualified personnel and will put
in place effective research programs into which Ph.D. and Master students
can return. These consultafits will be hired for priority research areas only.
While they will be employed for the duration of the project, the successful
implementation of INLAPs Development Plan should ensure that these
consultants can be maintained as staff by INIAP once the project
terminates.
(d)   International Senior Agricultural Scientists (US$300,000). About
25 man/months of short-term support from senior agricultural scientists
and their institutions will be provided in critical research areas and for
research administration. Such scientists will be from leading research
institutions and their home research institution will provide the advisor on a
cost reimbursable basis. These advisors will be senior researchers with
experience in research funding and administration, as well as current
credentials in research. The institutional linkage will facilitate the further
integration of international researchers into Ecuador nascent agricultural
science system, and from the international science network more generally.
(e)   Equipment, Vehicles, Rehabilitation of Laboratories, and Libraries
(US$1,200,000). In terms of physical plant, INIAPs highest priority is for
rehabilitating and modernizing the research stations, including electricity
and water supply. The subcomponent will finance: the rehabilitation of the
existing facilities - civil works (US$700,000) and vehicles and equipment
(US$500,000), including laboratory equipment, vehicles and farm
machinery, library materials and equipment including software and
hardware to support an information system.



16
Project Implementation Unit
3.25        The overall implementation of the project (US$3,300,000), will be the
responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which has been established by
MAG. It will contract the technical aspects, such as the evaluation and selection of the
Competitive Grants, to a NGO with expertise in this area.
3.26        The PIU will administer and promote the project and will be the main
contact for the Bank for project implementation. The PIU will prepare an Annual Work
Plan, including budget, for all work under its supervision, along with annual financial
statements. This subcomponent will finance technical assistance, vehicles and equipment,
contracted staff salaries, office supplies and overhead.
3.27        Technical assistance will include the implementation of a supervision,
monitoring and evaluation system for investments in Research and Education Exchange
partnership subprojects. It will also include the promotion and training of participating
entities in preparing proposals for grant funding consideration; the preparation of a project
performance report to be used as a basis for a comprehensive midterm review; the end-
evaluation of the project which will assess, inter alia, the impact of the project and
xletermine if the Government should prepare a follow-up project; and other technical
assistance, including training, to support the implementation of the project.
3.28        The management of the competitive components of the project will be
awarded under a single contract to a NGO (US$2,100,000). The NGO will be responsible
for the review, selection and administration of the Research subprojects and the Research
and Education Exchange Partnerships. The NGO will: invite proposals; review the
technical and financial aspects of the proposals; through a Peer Review Panel, select
subprojects; draft cofinancing contracts for the approved subprojects; and supervise
subproject implementation. Under this subcomponent, the project will finance a service
contract that will include technical assistance, the Peer Review Panel, consultant salaries,
office supplies and overheads, including the management fee.
Status of Project Preparation: Project Year One
3.29        INIAP is preparing the terms of reference for the preparation of its
Development Plan and will have selected the consultants by May 31, 1996. An invitation
for research proposals, will be sent out, and proposals will be reviewed by
October 1, 1996. MAG will prepare the Annual Work Plan including Budget for 1997 by
October 31, 1996. Students for graduate training will be selected by October 31, 1996.
MAG will prepare the TORs for the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation
system along with those for the promotion and training for the project by October 31,
1996 and will have selected the respective consultants by November 30, 1996. For the
NGO contract to manage the technical aspects of the program, MAG has sent to the
Bank a draft consultants contract and will select the NGO by September 30, 1996.



17
Project Costs and Financing
3.30        The estimated total project cost is US$27 million, including US$2.2 million
for contingencies (as detailed in Annex 1). Costs were calculated using January 1996
prices and include a physical contingency of five percent on institutional strengthening
components. Expected price increases over the financing period were calculated using
Bank current projections for international inflation.
3.31        The Republic of Ecuador will be the Borrower. It was agreed at
negotiations that the financial terms be modified so that the loan be a US dollar loan at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR based US dollar, single currency loans. It was also
agreed that the amortization terms for this loan benefit from the decision to finance the
Environment TA loan on fixed-rate US dollar loan terms. The shorter maturity for that
loan (13 years) enables this loan to be financed with a 21-year maturity, including seven
years grace, somewhat longer than standard country terms for Ecuador of 20 years,
including five years grace. The Government of Ecuador has requested a LIBOR-based
US dollar single currency loan in the context of its external debt management strategy.
Ecuador's net trade position is largely US dollar denominated, and Ecuador would like to
increase the share of US dollars in its overall liability portfolio to reduce its currency risk.
It has selected the LIBOR-based interest rate in order to better tailor the repayment terms
of this loan. The Government is aware of the resulting interest rate risk it is taking, since
most of its external commercial debt is also indexed to LIBOR. The Government will
make the loan available to MAG to finance project components. MAG will cofinance,
with participating entities, the Competitive Research Grant Program and the Research and
Education Exchange Partnerships. MAG will also finance the strengthening of INIAP;
and the management and administration of the project.
3.32        The project will be financed by a Bank loan of US$21 million (78 percent
of total project cost), including US$1 million in retroactive financing. This will cover
100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange costs and 68 percent of the local costs.
The balance of project costs will be financed by Government (US$3.1 million, or
11.5 percent), and by participating research groups, i.e., universities, farmer groups and
NGOs, (US$2.9 million, or 10.7 percent). MAG will finance all Competitive Grants
including Partnerships, at an average of 65 percent of total subproject costs, financing at
75 percent for the first US$4.5 million, 65 percent for the next US$4.5 million and
55 percent thereafter (para 5.1 (c) (iii)). Adequate funding will be made available to the
project, by allocating funds in the annual budget for the following year according to the
proposals to be submitted to the Bank no later than October 31 of each year following the
requirements specified in the projects Annual Work Plans (para. 5.1 (c) (i)). The
Government will provide adequate working capital to the PIU by depositing, in advance,
in the PIU account its share of the equivalent of one month's operating expenses
(para 5.1 (c) (ii)).



18
Procurement
3.33        Procurement of goods, works and contracting services financed by the
Bank under the project will follow procedures acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines
Procurement under Bank Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995). As applicable, standard
bidding documents for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be agreed upon and
incorporated into the Operational Manual, to be used by the implementing agencies as the
basis for procurement under the project.
3.34        Civil Works contracts costing more than US$100,000, up to an aggregate
of US$500,000, will be awarded based on NCB procedures. Minor works estimated to
cost less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$250,000 will be procured
under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation.
3.35        Vehicles and laboratory equipment will be packaged into contracts greater
than US$50,000 and will be procured under Limited International Bidding (LLB) from
suppliers with service and maintenance facilities in Ecuador. Other goods, and equipment
valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent per order, will be purchased on the basis of price
quotations from at least three eligible suppliers up to an aggregate of US$400,000.
3.36        The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and technical
assistance under the project will be consistent with the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by Bank Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing Agency, using
Bank issued standard forms of contract and standard letters of invitation acceptable to the
Bank.
3.37        Under Research Grants and Partnerships procurement of goods (fertilizers,
chemicals, etc.) and equipment (laboratoratory equipment, field implements, etc.) will be
done under shopping, due to the small size of grants. Procurement of fellowships will be
done by direct contract, because of the specific nature of each fellowship. The contract
for each grant will state that procurement will follow procedures acceptable to the Bank
and a sample contract will be included in the Operational Manual. A procurement
specialist on the staff of the PIU will review procurement under the project to ensure that
the conditions described are met. During supervision missions, the Bank will sample
contracts for review of how procurement was being implemented
3.38        Prior Review. The Bank will review all contracts for goods, equipment,
civil works and consultants over US$50,000. Approximately 15 percent of all
procurement will be subject to prior review by the Bank. This low percentage is
acceptable due to the fact that most procurement will be made by the grantees under small
grants. As a safeguard against such low levels of prior review, the staff of the PIU will
include a procurement specialist who will review all procurement not under prior review
by the Bank, in accordance with the Operational Manual. As for NCB procurement there
will be no prior registration of bidders, no requirement for local agents, and no provision



* a g _- - :x-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                     . ;-- f:   . =.   . >. . :.   . -. -.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . :. -. -  . . .   . . .   . . . . .     . -. a. . . . . . . . . .   .   . . .
O ^ # O .^.: t .. , 9. w . .-. . . ._. .,, -. .-- ,,,. ,, . E- ,, ,,,. . . c ... -. _ a-.:.. .. .C. ..
.   .   . ..   ... . .~
S .                                                                                                                                                                                                   0~~~~~~..    .    ..
|  W B                    _. . .-..   . . . '                                                                                                               .           .                         j                                         e'j j-"
w :'-- ,.|-.-.''.'|' , ,.'''' W: -;'. --I 1-1 1-.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                       ..     ....              ...  ... 
.......                                                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~00            .
.. ..                ... .
2   o  t                                     ---- - -- ---  -- -~~~~.....   .   .   .- - -- .   :    :::   ::':::::::: .:                .: ':  :,'.: :.:.:.   !:1l.:l. '.:::.:':
0;   n. v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         oc
00~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- ...00..-...
.    . ....  .     ..... ~      ~             I 
.... ..   . ..               . ..    . ....                                                                   ...       .            .. ...
FII  ~~~~~~~~~Ji;;;n~~~~~... ....  ..0                                                                                                                                                                                              A0c



20
expenses including travel and maintenance and overhead expenses of the PIU will be
reimbursed from the loan at a rate of 85 percent of costs up to a loan disbursement of
US$225,000, 70 percent thereafter up to US$360,000, and 50 percent thereafter until
project completion. The Bank will reimburse 100 percent of the Governments share of the
Competitive Research Grants and Research and Education Exchange Partnerships up to a
maximum of 75 percent of the total investment cost of each subproject.
3.41          All disbursements from the loan, except for equipment and materials are
expected to be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). All contracts, including
consultants, greater than US$50,000 or more equivalent, will not be eligible for SOEs. All
expenditures under research grants, fellowships, training, incremental operating costs and
contracts not requiring prior review will be disbursed under SOEs. The participating
entities responsible for the procurement of goods and contracting services will maintain
the SOE. The minimum value of each disbursement request will be US$120,000 during
the initial period of the project, and US$200,000 when cumulative disbursements from the
loan have reached US$4.4 million. Retroactive financing of up to US$1 million for
eligible expenditures made after May 31, 1995, but no more than 12 months before
signing, will be provided for under the loan. The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 2003, with a closing date of December 31, 2003.
3.42          The Borrower will establish a Special Account in the Central Bank of
Ecuador, or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank to cover eligible project
expenditures under the loan. The Bank will initially deposit up to US$0.6 million upon
receipt of an initial withdrawal application. This could later be increased to
US$1.0 million (representing the average expected loan disbursement for a four-month
period) once cumulative disbursements from the loan reached US$4.4 million. Subsequent
replenishment by the Bank into the Special Account will follow the procedures for which
Bank funds are disbursed against actual expenditures.
..... -Table 2: Disbursements fiom Lo:n   S$); ...          .. ..... . .. ..
Cat  o                   Amount of Loan.....% of Loanu
I Grants ~ ~ ~ ~~......              ...     to        on 
a. -  Research and Education Exchan-ge -    i -t4C2ft -10,600,0002-: t::i:t:::itE050.50 - f:0 !- 
t 0;::0b. ;-F-ellowshi s -   0-- j  :      il000A;:;000000 ;0  :0 AP  2,000V;; fg 00000, 000  9.5 
2. Civi 0000;000000                          0       00000000000g;tlD Works    A?07707:;0. ....... 6....00. ..00 i .0 3. . ...0.
03. Good s I NJAP0-;-ltl                             4 . . ..  .. .. .. . ..... . .. .00...  -4X,00    i .....-0...  2.00-..  i;
;-;b;.E Ohrs;--_ 22:;:0-:;-:                                     f     :--:::S:-i:0:-:i : fd .:000 :  1o:0.5
5. Incremetal 0 eat   CotsCW;0000:000000000- iCl00000:5:0S0 O-it000       2.7:;000::5:gA
i6. nallocated  t$       tt     :      04:  t-:   1- 90Q0 000;t  9.0-V
:: .               .     .   .    ....To t          1     00 0 0 0 ..  ..  . ... ..    ..  ..  ..:: :  ...0 .    ...... i: ..    .   .   .  ..  ..  ..;:'';;';.i..:   0   .0 .    .  ii  i
i:ii ~ ~ ~ ~ .   ....i::  .i::  ..:   7    7   :    :-  ::- :i    T + l    : : : ::;:  .:: .:EiE:- .....:iii .: ..:   ::i::i:: i .:.........   .......    ..: .:..
:::.::.7:   :::::  ::~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~. :::.  ..2:  :- :::: ::. .v; . .::-   ....  .. :::  ::   .. .:  .E:   ......: :::::   ..: :::   .. .. : ::.::a ^ Y 9 V .......   .. . .::.



21
Accounfing and Audifing
3.43        The PIU will establish consolidated project accounts and maintain other
records as needed, including separate accounts and records of the total cost of financed
subprojects and the cost of individual project activities. Contracts with participating
entities will include accounting and auditing requirements as provided for in the
Operational Manual.
3.44        Project accounts, the Special Account, and related financial information
(including supporting documentation for the SOEs) will be audited annually by an
independent private auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Bank auditing
guidelines. Certified copies of the audited consolidated project accounts and audited
Special Account in the Central Bank (including a separate opinion on the use of SOEs)
will be submitted annually to the Bank not later than six months after the close of the
financial year (para. 5.1 (c) (v)). As part of the Operational Manual, the contracts with
the participating entities will include a condition that, if the financial audits identify
significant irregularities in any participating entity, the PIU will take the necessary steps to
suspend the contract.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
4.1         An Executive Council, chaired by the Technical Subsecretary, has been
formed within MAG, with responsibility to oversee the project. A Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) has also been established by MAG, which will be responsible for reporting to
the Bank and managing the INIAP Institutional Strengthening component. This PIU will
contract out the management of the Competitive Grants to a NGO and this contract will
be financed by this project. The NGO will be responsible for handling all technical and
pre-contractual aspects of the project and will be supported by a Peer Review Panel which
will review all proposals for the Competitive Grants component of the project (see
Organization Chart - Annex 2). The NGO will send out an invitation for proposals to be
financed, competitively, based on priorities established by the Executive Council and
approved by MAG. The annual budget for the project which will also be established by
the Executive Council and approved by MAG will determiine the size of the program for
any one year.
Executive Council
4.2         The Council will be led by the Technical Subsecretary in the Ministry of
Agriculture and will include representatives of the private sector, universities, foundations,
and NGOs. The function of the Council is: to oversee the implementation of the project;
to approve Annual Work Plans including budget; to ensure that the PIU and INIAP



22
comply with the obligations stated in their Annual Work Plans; and to ensure that
proposals conform to national research priorities as established by MAG.
The Project Implementation Unit
4.3         The PIU, which has been established by a Ministerial Resolution, will be
responsible for preparing the budget, annual work plans, making payments from the loan
account for project expenditures, and preparing financial and progress reports for the
project and will be the main contact for the Bank for project implementation. The PIU
will also contract consultants to: (a) implement a M&E system; (b) prepare an evaluation
report for the Midterm Review; and (c) prepare an End Evaluation of the project. It will
contract staff to promote the project and provide training to participating entities in
preparing proposals for grant funding, and it will manage the contract for the management
of the Competitive Grants.
4.4         The PIU will have about seven staff, including support staff, led by a
Director, who will report to the Executive Council and the Technical Subsecretary in
MAG. The Director will have overall responsibility for the administration of the project.
He will be supported by a Finance and Administration Manager who will handle payments
from the loan account for project expenditures (contracted payments for research,
exchange partnerships and fellowship grants, technical assistance, equipment, vehicles,
civil works, and materials procured under the project). He will also prepare the annual
budget, consolidate project cost statements and arrange for the audit of the projects cost
statements and Special Account. There will also be a Procurement and Contracts
Specialist who will ensure that all technical assistance contracts and the procurement of
goods, equipment and vehicles, and civil works financed under the project, directly or
through the Competitive Grants, are done in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Government and the Bank. There will also be a Monitoring and Evaluation Manager and
an assistant to monitor and evaluate project implementation.
4.5         As a condition of effectiveness the Project Director will have been hired
and the PIU will have the minimum staff in place, in numbers and with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, to initiate the project (para. 5.1 (a) (i)). Government will, at all
times, retain in the PIU staff in numbers and composition, including the position of
director, satisfactory to the Bank for efficient implementation of the project, (para. 5.1 (c)
(vi)).
Management of the Competitive Grants
4.6         The management of the Competitive Grants will be contracted out to an
NGO. The NGO will promote these grants by organizing training workshops on the
preparation of proposals for competitive selection, send out annual invitations for
proposals; conduct a preliminary technical and financial review of proposals before passing
them onto the Peer Review Panel for final approval; draft contracts for the approved
subprojects with the selected implementing agencies; and supervise subproject



23
implementation. Service contracts for the execution of subprojects will be signed by the
PIU.
4.7         For fellowships that will be awarded under the project the NGO will:
screen proposals for compliance before passing them on to the Peer Review Panel; prepare
financing agreements with the selected participants; assist the awardee and those selected
from INIAP for fellowships in applying to graduate schools; monitor and supervise the
awardees progress; and arrange for students to return to Ecuador to do their thesis work
on appropriate topics in INIAP, university or private sector laboratories. It will also
advise the PIU on the payments to be made under the component. A draft contract,
between MAG and the NGO, for the management of the Competitive Grants has been
prepared. It will be a condition of effectiveness that the NGO has been selected and a
Letter of Intent signed (para. 5.1 (a) (ii)).
4.8         Under the project there is a Strengthening component for INIAP. This will
be in the form of technical assistance to prepare a Development Plan, fellowships, research
consultants, civil works to rehabilitate existing facilities, vehicles, equipment and materials.
INIAP will prepare all of the necessary pre-contractual documentation and pass this on to
the PIU and the NGO, where appropriate, for processing. All payments will be made by
the PIU. INIAP would agree through an Implementation Agreement with MAG to meet
certain requirements which would include the preparation of a Development Plan that
would deal with the assignment of personnel; the separation of production and research
activities; asset restructuring; and the role and management of the Endowment Fund. It
will be a condition of disbursement of the INIAP component that the Implementation
Agreement with INIAP would be signed (para. 5.1 (b) (i)).
Peer Review Panel
4.9         A Peer Review Panel (five members) will be contracted through the NGO,
to review, and select: the Research Grants and the Research and Education Exchange
partnership subprojects to be financed under the project. The Panel will present the
selected proposals to the contracted NGO for financing. Panel members will be
contracted at a standard daily rate for about thirty days per year. Contracts will be for
two years. The Peer Review Panel will consist of scientists with a proven record in
research and will come from the various research entities, including the private sector.
International participation will be needed in certain instances. There will be an
environmental specialist on the Peer Review Panel who will review proposals for their
environmental impact. The qualifications and terms of service for all panel members will
be included in the OM, and MAG will ensure that the Peer Review Panel will be
maintained with members satisfactory to the Bank.
Operational Manual
4.10        An Operational Manual (OM), will be a working document for the project,
describing how to plan, identify, prepare, select, contract, finance, supervise, evaluate, and



24
account for the proposals to be financed with participating entities under the project. It
will be a condition of loan effectiveness that the OM has been adopted by MAG, through a
Ministerial Resolution (para. 5.1 (a) (iii)), and MAG will implement the project as per the
agreed OM and that the Government will send to the Bank for approval, any proposed
changes to the OM (para. 5.1 (c) (vii)).
Processing Proposals for Competitive Research Grants, and Research and
Education Exchange Partnerships
4.11        The system for the identification, processing and approval of proposals for
financing is based on open competition for funds, based on research priorities set by MAG
and selection criteria developed in the Operational Manual. Entities eligible to compete
will be INIAP, universities, growers associations and other private sector entities.
4.12        The PIU will send letters each year to participating and prospective entities
inviting proposals for the various competitive subcomponents of the project. This
invitation letter will state basic criteria for proposals, in accordance with the OM, as well
as the projects investment priorities for that year. The contracted NGO will enter
proposals received into a database and eliminate duplicates, technically unacceptable
proposals, those that do not meet environmental standards, and those that did not address
the main objectives of the project. The final list will be sent on for final review to the Peer
Review Panel.
4.13        The Peer Review Panel will review and select the proposals on a technical
basis and criteria established in the Operational Manual and within the annual budget
allocations. They will then inform the PIU as to their final selections along with the
reasons for such a selection. For the proposals that are accepted, the PIU will notify the
implementing agencies as to the acceptance of the proposal and the amount of financing.
For each approved subproject, the contracted NGO will prepare draft financing contracts
between the PIU and the participating entity. Once Government budgetary contributions
were secured, the PIU will sign contracts with participating entities and make payments
according to the schedule set forth in the contract. Letters will also be sent out indicating
which proposals were not selected and the reasons for such action.
4.14        The PIU will prepare an Annual Work Plan, including budget, for the
project in accordance with normal Government timing and procedures. The PIU will send
to the Bank for review, by June 30 of each year, the proposed Annual Work Plan,
including budget, to be undertaken by the PIU under the project for the coming year
(para. 5.1 (c) (viii)).



25
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15        In order to ensure adequate monitoring and supervision, the PIU will
appoint consultants not later than three months from the date of effectiveness, under terms
of reference (included in the OM), satisfactory to the Bank, to implement a monitoring
and evaluation system for the project and send a report to the Bank for comment within
six months from the effectiveness date (para. 5.1 (c) (ix)).
4.16        The PIU will submit an annual progress report to the Bank (due
February 28 of each year) and a short progress report, (due August 31 of each year),
identifying the major issues, problems and actions taken in the planning and
implementation of the project (para. 5.1 (c) (x)). These reports will include the status of
each component and discuss any problems that might arise which could affect
implementation. This information will also help the Bank and the PIU to plan the timing
and composition of supervision missions.
4.17        Midterm Review. To evaluate the project, the PIU will hire consultants,
no later than 24 months from the date of effectiveness, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare a midterm performance report. No later than 30
months after the effectiveness date, and using the above report as a basis, the Borrower
will undertake jointly with the Bank, a Midterm review and evaluation of the activities
carried out under the project and the results achieved. This review will include but not be
limited to: (a) the Executive Council, the PIU, the management contract for the
Competitive Grants, and the Peer Review Panel; (b) all aspects of the implementation of
approved proposals, particularly the selection process and the response of the private
sector and universities; and (c) the effectiveness of the provisions of the Operational
Manual and its application. Consultants satisfactory to the Bank will be hired, no later than
24 months after effectiveness, to prepare a midterm project performance report and the
midterm review will take place no later than 30 months after the date of effectiveness.
Once the review has been completed all required adjustments, including changes to the
Operational Manual agreeable to the Bank, would be introduced (para. 5.1 (c) (xi)).
4.18        End Evaluation. Consultants will be hired by June 30, 2000, to assess the
overall success of the project and to determine whether and when a follow-up project will
be needed. The consultants will assess the projects success in developing and integrating
links across the research spectrum from basic to adaptive research, and in promoting an
integrated, interactive and competitive research system that involves the public sector,
farmers groups, universities and other private sector entities (para. 5.1 (c) (xii)).
4.19        The Borrower, through MAG, will prepare and furnish to the Bank, no
later than six months after the close of the project, a plan for the future operation of the
project. The Borrower has also agreed to give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on such a plan and thereafter carry out the plan, taking
into account the Banks comments (para. 5.1 (c) (xiii)).



26
Project Benefits
4.20        Benefits will accrue to the agricultural research system, by making it more
competitive; by involving a broader range of institutions; by attracting more funding from
the private sector and therefore leading to greater sustainability; by developing exchange
partnerships and therefore facilitating the importation of technology, and strengthening of
graduate teaching in universities. The project will also develop a critical mass of scientists
capable of doing research.
4.21        Beneficiaries will be farmers, the majority of whom are poor, and who
produce the basic food commodities, such as rice, maize, potatoes and plantains along
with those that produce export crops such as bananas and plantains. Technologies
developed under this project will improve management of soil and water, increase disease
and pest resistance of crops which will result in reduced pesticide use, develop integrated
pest management methods and soil conservation methods, and produce higher yielding
crop varieties.
Project Risks
4.22         General risks to this type of project are lack of Government commitment,
inability to set priorities and maintain them, lack of counterpart funding, uncertainty of
private sector participation and the lack of good working conditions for returning M.S.
and Ph.D. fellows. The project will address the commitment risk by eliciting a statement
of the Governments agricultural technology strategy in which it provides assurances of the
priority it gives to public funding of agricultural research. The project will set as a
condition of effectiveness the setting of priorities by the MAG in conjunction with
producers and research organizations. In terms of sustainability of funding, an analysis of
future needs has been made during project preparation, the results of which have been
presented to MAG for discussion and will be used as the basis for eliciting sustained
support in the future. The preparation of a Development Plan by iNLAP which will
address such issues as asset restructuring and the management of its endowment fund will
improve the sustainability of that institution. This analysis also includes investments from
the private sector. To support the MAG in managing the Competitive Grants component
of the project a NGO will be contracted. INIAP's autonomy along with access to
competitive funds should better employment conditions for higher level staff.
Environmental Impact
4.23        The direct and immediate environmental impacts of agriculture can be
grouped into four categories: (a) loss of habitat; (b) loss of soil productivity; (c) modified
hydrology; and (d) soil and water contamination. On the whole this project should have
beneficial environmental impacts. Encroachment by farmers and ranchers on frontier
tropical forests and other natural habitats should diminish as: (i) yields increase on
productive lands; and (ii) generation of technology enhances Ecuador's ability to deal with
environmental issues such as land degradation and agricultural chemical pollution.



27
4.24        Research programs financed by the project will; improve management of
sods and water, increase disease and pest resistance of crops and thereby reduce chemical
use, develop integrated pest management methods that will include more rational use of
pesticides, and develop soil conservation methods. As one of the main objectives of the
project is to increase the productivity of agriculture this should result in less pressure
being put on land and water resources. Research on animals and pasture should also
produce environmental benefits. Since much of the recent expansion on the coast has
been for pastures for animal production, more efficient use of pasture will decrease the
pressure on fragile tropical lands.
4.25        Specifically the project would have an environmental assessment (EA)
specialist on the Peer Review Panel of the project to screen research proposals. The
Operational Manual would include environmental criteria for the selection of research
projects under the competitive grants component.
Poverty Alleviation
4.26        While it is not a direct poverty intervention it has important implications for
rural poverty as the research priorities, i.e., rice, potatoes, maize, etc., being financed
under the project are of importance to small farmers as illustrated in the recent Poverty
Report (June 30, 1995). Rural poverty is tightly linked to the productivity of agriculture
and environmental degradation. This project will strengthen the knowledge base of
Ecuadoran agriculture and thereby increase productivity. Such productivity increases will
lead to more efficient growth, increase economic opportunities in rural areas, and halt the
deterioration of the natural resource base. The project will benefit farmers, most of whom
are poor. Through research on basic commodities such as rice, barley, plantains, and
potatoes, which make up the bulk of the calories consumed by the poor, poor consumers
will also benefit.
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         During negotiations of the loan, agreement from the Government of
Ecuador has been reached on the following actions:
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)   the director of the PIU will have been hired and a minimum staff in
place, in numbers and composition acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.5);
(ii)   the NGO for the management of the Competitive Grants
component has been selected and a Letter of Intent signed
(para. 4.7); and



28
(iii)   the OM acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted by MAG,
through a Ministerial Resolution (para. 4.10).
(b)   Condition of Disbursements:
(i)   disbursement for expenses in the "Strengthening INIAP"
component, other than those for consultants to prepare the
Development Plan, would be conditional on the signing of the
Implementation Agreement with INLAP which would include the
Development Plan which would deal with, inter alia, the
assignment of personnel; the separation of production and research
activities; asset restructuring; and the role and management of its
endowment fund (para 4.8).
(c)   during negotiations the following agreements were reached with the
Borrower;
(i)   adequate funding will be made available to the project, by allocating
funds in the annual budget for the following year according to the
proposals to be submitted to the Bank no later than October 31 of
each year following the requirements specified in the projects
Annual Work Plans (para. 3.32);
(ii)   the Borrower will provide adequate working capital to the PIU by
depositing, in advance, in the PIU account its share of the
equivalent of one months operating expenses (para 3.32);
(iii)    MAG will finance all Competitive Grants, including Partnerships at
an average 65 percent of total subproject costs, financing at
75 percent for the first US$4.5 million, 65 percent for the next
US$4.5 million and 55 percent thereafter (para 3.32);
(iv)   the Borrower will ensure that all parties participating in the project
follow procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.39);
(v)    accounting and audit requirements described in paras. 3.43 and 3.44
will be followed;
(vi)    Government will, at all times, retain in the PIU, staff in numbers
and with qualifications, including the position of director,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.5);



29
(vii)    MAG will implement the project as per the OM and Government
will approve the OM and submit it to the Bank for approval any
proposed changes to the OM (para. 4.10);
(viii)   the PIU will send to the Bank for review, by June 30 of each year,
the proposed Annual Operating and Work Plans to be undertaken
by the PIU under the project for the coming year (para. 4.14);
(ix)    consultants will be contracted, not later than three months from the
date of effectiveness, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, to implement a monitoring and evaluation system for the
project, and send a report to the Bank for comment within six
months from the date of effectiveness (para. 4.15);
(x)   the PIU will submit an annual progress report to the Bank, due
February 28 each year, and a short progress report (due August 31
of each year) identifying the major issues, problems and actions
taken in the planning and implementation of the project
(para. 4.16);
(xi)   the PIU will hire consultants, no later than 24 months from the
effectiveness date and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, to prepare a midterm performance report, and that no later
than 30 months after the effectiveness date, and using the above
report as a basis, the Borrower would undertake jointly with the
Bank, a midterm review and once the review has been completed,
all required adjustments, as well as changes to the Operational
Manual agreeable to the Bank would be introduced (para. 4.17);
(xii)   consultants will be hired, by June 30, 2000, to assess the projects
success to date and determine if there should be a follow-up project
(para. 4.18); and
(xiii)    MAG will prepare a plan, within six months after project closing,
for the future operation of the project and discuss this plan with the
Bank (para. 4.19).
5.2   Recommendation. Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$21 million with a term of 21 years,
including a 7 year grace period.



30
ANNEX 1
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary Costs
ECUADOR                                         Annex 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                 Page 1
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY COSTS
CATEGORY                                                           US$1000_                               World     Local
Local   Foreign   TOTAL      %                 Bank    Support
COMPElITIVE GRANT& 
1. Raleech Grnts                                            6,376    1,125    7,500      30.2               4876      2625
2. Exchange Pwtirrships - Research                          4,080    1,020    5,100      20.6               3315       1785
3.                  - Edkucation                              240    2,160    2,400       9.7               2400          0
4. Tota                                                     4,320    3,180    7,00      30.2               5715       1785
5. Total Comeponent                                        10,895    4,306   15,000      60.5              10590      4410
STRENOGTHNING INAP
1. Development Plan                                             0      100       100      0.4                100          0
2. Training
. PhDs                                                         0      900       900      3.6                900          0
b. MSe and Other Training                                      0    1,100    1,100       4.4               1100          0
3. Netional Re_sarchere 
a. PhDc                                                    1,800         0    1,800      7.3               1 530       270
b. MS'                                                     1,080         0    1,080      4.4                918        162
4. rnternational RePearchts                                     0      300       300       1 .2               300         0
5. Civil Works                                                595      105       700       2.8                595       105
S. Equipnent, VehNic, Materials etc.                           78      442       520       2.1               442         78
7. Total Component                                          3.863    2,847    6,500      26.2               5885        616
PROJECT IMPLJMdTATION UNT
1. Tectlcal Aa_ietanca inc.Midterm  nd End Evaluations        180      180       380       1.                306         54
2. Vehclee and Eqaipment                                       10       66        65      0.3                  65        10
3. Project Staff                                              716        0       715       2.9               488        227
4. Operating, Maintenance and Overhead Coats                   48        12       60      0.2                  41        19
6. R_e erch Management Contract                             1,60      420    2,100       8.5               1785        315
S. Total                                                    2,833      667    3,300      13.3               2675        625
TOTAL  OJECT *ASE CO8TS                                    16,981    7,819   24,800    100.0               19150      56so
Total Contingencies - Physical                                336       154      490       1.8                428        62
- Price                                    1,171      539    1,710        6.3               1423       288
TOTAL tJECT COSTS                                          18,487    8,513   27,000    100.0               21000      6000
PINANCINO PLAN
1. Private Sector and Universities                          1666    1,236    2,900       10.7
2. IMAP                                                     2,060         0    2.060      7.6 
3. Mrtvty ot Agrtculbwo                                     1,040         0    1,040       3.9
4. Bank Loan                                               13,500    7.500   21,000      77.8
Total                                                      18,265    8,735   27,000    100.0



31
| ECUADOR                                                             Annex 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                                  Page 2
_C OFINANCING MATRIX
Part.       MAG's         Bank Loan
Entities      Share    as a % of MAG
COMPEhTINE GRANTS                                                     %             X              %
1. Rerwch Grants                                                      36          66 /1           100
2. Exchange Pwtnershipe - Reeearch                                    36          65/1            100
3.                  - Education                                                    100            100
STRENGTHENINC INAP /2
1. Development Ple,n                                                               100            100
2. Training
a. PhDs                                                                           100            100
b. MS and Other Training                                                          100            100
3. National Reeswrcherh
a. PhDs                                                                           100           100/85
b. MSe                                                                            100           100/86
4. International Researchers                                                       100           100/86
S. Civil Works                                                                     100           100/85
6. Equiprent, Vehicles, Materials etc                                              100           100/85
PROJECT IMPLEBIENTATION UNIT /2
1. Technical Assistance inc.Midterm and End Evaluations                            100           100/85
2. Vehicles and Equipment                                                          100           10018S
3. Project Staff                                                                   100         85/70/50 13
4. Operating. Maintensnce nd Overhead Coats                                        100         85/70/50 13
5. R"earch Management Contract                                                     100           100/85
Note 1: Subgrents from MAG would average 86b  of total subproject costs with MAG financing 75% up to the first US$4.6 million,
86% for th next US$4.5, and 65% thereafter. IDB would finance research subprojects on the eame baeis ae the Bank.
Note 2: Trairnig, Technical Assistance. Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment would be reimbursed at a rate of 100%
for foreign coats and 86% for local coots.  1           1                          I
Note 3: Salariei and Operating costs would be reimbursed at 86% until withdrawals in this Category, have reached
an aggregate amount eqavelent to $225,000; 70% until withdrowal have reached $ 360,000 and 50% therefter.
_ _ _ _       _ _         _ _             _ _        __            __               __                 _                _       _



32
-           -     Annex 1
ECUADOR                                        P                   _ __
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY COSTS
I
aee.   Centlngeuck
CATEGORY                                                 Coas  Physalc    Price    Toal         %
COMPEnTIVE GRANTS
1. Resrch Grants                                           7,500               502   8,002       29.6
2. Exchag Partnernhips - Rerch                             6,100    =          383   5,483       20.3
3.                 - Education                             2,400         _     146    2,546       9.4
4. Total                                                   7,600               529   8.029       29.7
5. Total Component                                        165000         _    1,032  16,031      59.3
STRINTHIdING IHAP
1. Deveopment Plan                                          100         6        1      108       0.4
2. Trainingg
a. PhDt                                                    900        46       60    1,005       3.7
b. MSc ndw Oh Traring                                     1,100       56       89    1,244       4.6
3. NatIonal Reoerchwe
a. PhDe                                                   1,800       90      161   2,041        7.6
b. MSa                                                    1,080       64 W     94    1,228       4.6
4. International FReearchers                                 300       15        28     343       1.3
S. Civil Works                                              700        36       27      762       2.8 
. EqLipmrent, VNhicl_, Materiale aet.                       520        26       20      666       2.1
7. Total Component                                         6,500      325      470   7,296       27.0               =         -
PROJECT IMPLE.EITATION UNIT
1. Teclwicsl Aaaitance inc.Midterm and End Evaluationr      380        18       36      413       1.5
2. Vehiclee and Equipment                                     86        3         1      89       0.3
3. Pr*ct Staff                                              715        36       65      806       3.0 
4. Operating, Maintenance and Overhead Costs                  80        3         4      87       0.2
S. Raerch Management Contract                              2,100      106      161    2,368       8.7
6. Total                                                   3.300       165      246    3.711     13.7  ___
TOTAL PROJECT BASE COSTS                                  24,800       490     1,747   27,037    100.0
Total Contingencts Physical                                 490
-Prica                                    1,710 _
TOTAL POJECT COSTS                                        27,000 



33
ANNEX 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization Chart
MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE
EXECUTIVE        TECHNCAL
COUNCIL          SUBSECRETARY
PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
UNIT
COMPETITIVE
PEER REVIEW      GRANTS
PANEL            MANAGEMENT UNIT



34
ANNEX 3
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Ecuador's Agricultural Research System
Investments in Agricultural Research
1.           Rates of Retum Around the World. Expenditures on agricultural research
consistently have been an excellent investment for a wide variety of governments and countries
around the world. Evenson, Waggoner and Ruttan6 reviewed 34 studies of returns to such
investments in various developed and developing countries and reported that returns ranged
from 20 to 110 percent per year. A similar review of 10 studies in South America found
returs ranging from 11 to 119 percent (Scobie)7. These high rates of return have helped these
countries to experience more rapid economic growth and development relative to countries
which discriminated against agriculture.
2.            These returns, which cover many years of investment, are comparable to the
rates of return received by a private investor on a certificate of deposit, savings account or
other investment instrument. They are extraordinarily high by any standard and suggest that
even developed countries still are substantially underinvested in agricultural research.
3.           Returns in Ecuador. Ecuador also has experienced success in its efforts to
generate, access and diffuse improved technologies, even though average yields still are
relatively low. Posada Torrese found a benefit-cost ratio of 2.46 for expenditures on
agricultural research in Ecuador between 1971 and 1981. Joint research on rice by INAP,
universities and international agencies resulted in returns of 34 percent between 1970 and 1990
(Palomino and Echeverria)9. A series of related studies carried out by INHZP with support
from ISNAR and FUNDAGRO revealed the following rates of return to research investments:
hard corn, 70 percent; african palm, 32 percent; potatoes, 33 percent; soybeans, 17 percent;
and wheat, 29 percent (INLAP)10.
6Evenson, Robert E., P.E. Waggoner and V.W. Ruttan 1979. "Economic Benefits to Research: An
Example from Agriculture." Science 205: September 14: 1101-1107.
7 Scobie, Grant M. 1986. "Partners in Research: The CGIAR in Latin America. Washington, D.C.:
paper presented to the Executive Directors of 1DB, February 18.
s Posada Torres, Rafael. 1986 "Ecuador and the CGIAR Centers: A Study of their Collaboration in
Agricultural Research" Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, September, CGIAR Study Paper
No. 11.
9 Palomino, Julio and George Norton. 1992. "Determinaci6n de Prioridades de Investigaci6n
Agropecuaria en Ecuador" Quito: MNIAP.
10 INIAP 1993a. "Retorno a las Inversiones en Investigaci6nAgropecuaria" Quito: Direcci6n de
Planificaci6n.



35
4.            Thus, Ecuador science base has made a modest contribution to agricultural
development. It is interesting to speculate how much larger the contribution might have been
with a more neutral macroeconomic policy matrix and if the funding constraints discussed
below had been addressed on a sustained basis.
5.           Standards for Funding Levels. ISNAR and the World Bank recommend as
a standard that between one and two percent of the gross domestic product of agriculture
(AGDP) be expended on agricultural research (ISNAR and IICA p.45)11. A separate source
indicates that two percent has become the accepted target (ISNAR)"2. Expending one to two
percent of AGDP on agricultural research is the necessary investment range for building a
viable science base for agriculture on the basis of experience in developed and developing
countries.
6.           Perspective on Ecuador's Investment History. Investments in agricultural
research in NIAP and the universities declined steadily in real terms at three percent per year
between 1974-76 and 1991-93 ". Research expenditures as a share of AGDP also declined
steadily after 1975 and were only .25 percent in 1993 compared to a high of .85 percent in
1975. The rapid erosion of investments during the last two decades is in sharp contrast to the
period 1965-1975 when funding increased at 14.5 percent per year.
7.           The situation is not quite so dismal when one considers that the private sector
also engages in agricultural research and it is evident that its investment has increased as
Government support has eroded. It is now estimated that private sector investments are about
US$3.1 million'4. Based on these estimations the total research investment (public and private)
in 1993 would be US$7.4 million or .43 percent of AGDP. Nevertheless, the trend in
agricultural research investments as a share of AGDP still would have declined from the high in
1975.
8.           Even with private sector research, Ecuador has made very limited investments
in comparison to the rest of the developing world. Data for 52 developing countries showed
an average investment in agricultural research of .94 percent of AGDP during 1980-1985, up
from .69 percent during 1970-1979 (ISNAR and ilCA p. 47). Thus, Ecuador sharply reduced
its investments in agricultural research while most of its competitors were increasing their
investments.
ISNAR and IICA (International Service for National Agricultural Research and Interamerican Insfitute
for Agricultural Cooperation). 1989. "Reforzamiento del Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones
Agropecuarias: Base para un Sistema Nacional de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria". The Hague:
ISNAR, June.
12 ISNAR (International Service for National Agricultural Research) 1990. "Why are Expenditures on
Agricultural Research so Small?" ISNAR Newsletter 12: January:2.
13 Univrsity viestments in research were only reported globally. It was assumed, for this analysis, that
10 percent of the total was dedicated to agriculture.
14 Falconi, Cesar A. 1992, Public and Private Sector Interactions in Agricultural Resrch in Less-
Developed Countries: The Case of Ecuador. ISNAR.



36
Ecuador in Comparison with Regional Trading Partners
9.           Share of AGDP Invested in Sectoral Research. Ecuador compares quite
poorly with its regional trading partners in terms of investments in agricultural research.
According to internal IDB project documents, in 1993 Peru invested close to one percent of its
AGDP in agricultural research (not including private sector investments) or 4.0 times more
than Ecuador. Colombia also invested more than Ecuador at .5 percent of its AGDP in 1991,
and historically has invested much more. These bordering countries are Ecuador most
important competitors in the Andean Pact, both for lucrative export markets in the U.S. and
Europe, and for provision of food and fiber supplies in the region. The fact that Peru and
Colombia are investing so much more in agricultural research puts significant pressure on
Ecuador to increase its investments and reform its research system.
10.          The case of Spains response to its integration into the European Common
market in 1986 is instructive. Spain invested only about .5 percent of AGDP in agricultural
research in 1978. By 1988 it had increased this to nearly 1.5 percent and had substantially
reformed its agricultural research system (Herruzo and Echeverria)'5 as it was forced to
become more productive in order to compete in the Common Market.
11.          Yields of Principal Crops. The failure to invest more in agricultural research
is reflected in relatively low yields in Ecuador compared to its neighbors (Annex Table 3). The
strong correlation between the levels of investment in research cited above, and yields suggests
a clear lesson for Ecuador. If it is to compete with its neighbors it must increase investments in
research and agricultural productivity.
12.          The Emerging World Economy and the Need to Compete. Ecuador faces
a looming productivity crisis of major proportions. The low levels of yields relative to its
regional and hemispheric trading partners places the country at a major disadvantage. When
one considers the extent of the disparity in the context of the emerging global economy and
significant new market opportunities, it underscores the urgency with which Ecuador must deal
with its productivity crisis.
13.          Ecuador clung to its inward-oriented macroeconomic policy matrix for a
decade or more after most of its neighbors began to open their economies. Now the
accelerating pace of regional, hemispheric and global economic integration is forcing the
country to play catch-up in an increasingly competitive environment. NAFTA, the Andean
Pact, and MercoSur are harbingers of ever more rapid, comprehensive and expanding free
trade and economic integration during the next few years. This presages a complete
realignment in production and trading patterns as private investors focus on those goods and
services which they can produce most efficiently for a global economy.
5Hemrzo, A. Casimiro and Ruben Echeverria. 1993. "Agricultural Research in Spain: Experiences
Relevant to Latin America." The Hague: ISNAR, Discussion Paper No. 93-04, February.



37
14.          Ecuador moribund research system for agriculture and its relatively low levels
of productivity can only be described as one of the most serious problems facing the nation.
The country is in an extremely precarious situation which is getting worse, as research
investments lag far behind its competitors. The Government must act decisively and soon with
substantial infusions of resources, especially human capital, if the country is to take advantage
of emerging new markets for products it produces. Even with such actions, the long gestation
period for agricultural research means that some opportunities are lost forever. But failure to
act will relegate the economy to even lower growth rates and eventual stagnation when
petroleum reserves are exhausted.
ILL Ecuador's Agricultural Research System:
Challenges and Opportunities
15.          Fundamental Problems. The research system suffers from several basic
problems which all tend to derive from inadequate funding for agricultural research. Because
INIAP has dominated the system for the last three decades most of the problems relate to
INIAP. Some of the constraints, however, relate to weaknesses in universities, and lack of
cohesiveness in the system.
16.          Too Few Research Scientists. Ecuador has significantly underinvested in
research scientists (ISNAR and IICA pp. 3943); (Venezian and Moncada pp. 29-30)16. The
number of researchers with post-graduate degrees in INIAP and the universities is inadequate
to produce the level of new technical knowledge needed for rapid, sustained increases in
agricultural productivity. For examnple, INIAP had only 6 Ph.Ds and 65 Masters in 1994,
down substantially from the mid-1980s. Universities had an additional 9 Ph.Ds and 70 Masters
in agricultural disciplines. This compares with 126 Ph.Ds and 353 Masters in Colombias
Govenmuent and semi-public research agencies, and universities (ISNAR unpublished data).
Several areas especially lack research scientists in Ecuador, including animal sciences, natural
resources, agricultural economics, rural sociology, biotechnology, and irrigation sciences.
17.          Inadequate Salaries. The principal constraint to attracting and retaining
agricultural scientists during the 1980s has been the relatively low salaries offered. As budget
support declined, INIAP lost four out of five Ph.Ds and 18 of 67 Masters between 1986 and
1989, or nearly one-third of its senior scientists in a three-year period. While the situation has
improved somewhat, LIAP continues to be plagued by turnover of research scientists. The
underlying problem is limited funding for INIAP, universities and other research institutes and
NGOs which are part of the system. Unless funding is increased, it will be very difficult to
increase salaries to market levels, even if the problem of an inadequate salary scale were
resolved. Thus, the research system has a difficult time competing for scarce human capital
and developing the critical mass of scientists necessary for a sustained research program.
16 Venezian Leigh, Eduardo and Jesus Moncada de la Fuente. 1989. "Ecuador. Propuesta de un Sistema
de Investigac6n y Transferencia de Tecnologia Agropecuaria ". Quito: MAG/USAID, September.



38
18.          Little Interaction with the Private Sector. The current research system has
limited interaction with or support from the private sector. Research by INIAP has become
increasingly confined to research stations. In the 1980s, research programs were coordinated
closely with production research programs (Programas de Investigaci6n en Producci6n-
PIPs) which were carried out on cooperating farms. The PIP program provided a feedback
System from farmers to researchers as weil as involving researchers more directly in outreach
activities. However, the PIP program was reduced substantially because of budget constraints.
Results tend to remain "bottled up" on the stations and to be less relevant to farmers and
especially to other entrepreneurs in the food system. As public budget support has declined and
the private sector has had to become more involved in research, farners appear to have
become less and less supportive of INIAP. Universities, which also have increased their
involvement in agricultural research, have developed reasonably good linkages to the farmers
they serve. However, their research base is very small and tends to be oriented primarily
toward marginal farmers. Ecuador's research system needs to increase on-farm trials and
feedback from farmers and more fully integrate and include natural resource, economic and
social concerns into research design and recommendations.
19.          Limited Participation of Universities. Ecuador's universities are mainly
teaching institutions which historically have had little involvement in agricultural research or
exension activities. The number of university research scientists in agriculture (nine Ph.Ds and
70 Masters) is quite limited relative to the total agricultural faculty of 1,253. But it is
approximately twice the number of research scientists in INIAP and represents a resource that
can expand the amount of research being done for the sector.
20.           The limited agricultural research that is carried out is done almost exclusively
through thesis work, with some guidance from the major professor. The quality of thesis
research varies widely depending on source of funding and the quality of related guidance.
Library and other research facilities are deficient and linkages to the international network of
agricultural science are extremely limited. Resource constraints and poorly-trained faculty
result in little laboratory or field work. Classroom lectures dominate the educational process,
and most of the largely urban-raised students graduate with little or no practical experience in
agriculture.
21.          Resources for higher education are spread too thin. What is needed is a more
foased effort with substantial upgrading of a few key faculties of agriculture. The higher
education system needs to be linked into the international science network for agriculture and
more completely integrated into the national research and extension system, especially in the
area of research.



39
22.           Weak International Linkages. Ecuador's research system does not have
strong, sustained working relationships with sister institutions in the international science
network. Ecuador science base for agriculture tends to work in isolation compared to many
other national systems (Posada Torres); (Joint Subcommittee)17. There is ample evidence that
national research systems substantially increase their productivity as they become fully
articulated into other national systems, international and regional research centers and foreign
agricultural universities (Hayami and Ruttan);1 (Arndt, Dalrymple and Ruttan)'9. Such
linkages eliminate duplication of effort and save scarce resources as the national science base
exploits research results from the international agricultural science network. Such results from
one country may have the potential of conferring large benefits in other countries but must be
accessed and then adapted by the national research system to fit different agro-climactic and
ecologic conditions in the new location.
23.           Inadequate Infrastructure. The physical infrastructure supporting Ecuador
science base for agriculture is beginning to deteriorate. Several experiment stations need to
have basic infrastructure such as plumbing and electricity modernized. Laboratory equipment
is outmoded and must be upgraded if the system is to be fully productive. Library holdings are
out of date and not adequate to provide researchers with access to peer research. Computer
facilities are limited both in terms of hardware and software. Finally, the research system has
very limited communication linkages to the international system, such as InterNet.
24.           Lack of Focus. Due to political pressure and lack of strong leadership INIAP
lost its focus throughout the 1980s. This led to a proliferation of programs that was not
matched by the financial resources put at its disposal. For example, by the late 1980s INTAP
research had expanded into nine research support programs (e.g., plant pathology), eighteen
crop and livestock commodity programs and four production systems programs (e.g., multiple-
crops). As a result, INMAP was attempting to cover over 80 separate research programs. The
problem has become even more difficult with the rapid loss of senior scientists since 1986, as
inexperienced junior scientists have had to fill positions for which they are not prepared. A
similar problem exists in universities which basically respond to the priorities present in the
limited amount of funding they receive.
25.           Research programs have concentrated almost exclusively on production
agriculture. Post-harvest handling and storage, processing, marketing and consumption are
largely ignored in the design of research programs. The important set of natural resources
issues affecting agriculture are not addressed by IMAP at all. They are dealt with on a
sporadic and ad hoc basis by private NGOs and foundations such as Funwdci6n Natura and in
17 Joint Subcommittee (Joint Ecuadorian/North Carolina State University Subcommittee). 1987.
"Reorientaci6n del Sector Agricola: Una estrategia para acelerar la aplicaci6n de las ciencias con
el fin de aumentar la productividad en la agricultura ecuatoriana" Quito: USAID, February.
18 Hayami, Yujiro, and Vernon W. Ruttan. 1985. "Agricultural Development: An International
Perspective" 2nd. Edition. Baltimore and London: The Johns Hopkins University Press.
9 Arndt, Thomnas M., Dana G. Dalrymple and Vernon M. Ruttan. 1977. "Resource Allocation and
Productivity in National and International Agricultural Research" Minneapolis: University of
Minnesota Press.



40
a few university faculties of biology. Other important areas such as agricultural economics,
rural sociology and irmgated agriculture also are severely understaffed.
26.          No Systematic Approach. There is no systematic approach or congruent
policy structure to condition and focus agricultural research in Ecuador. The four principal
players in the system-INLAP, universities, the private sector, and NGOs, have little interaction
with each other. There is no clearly stated set of national priorities to guide resource
allocations, the institutional structure is disjointed and does not have a policy construct which
defines objectives and roles, there is little or no incentive for individual researchers to take
initiative, and the system is isolated from the international science network. More critically, the
private sector and consumers, which generally reap large benefits from the public goods nature
of much of the systens research, do not appreciate the role of public sector research in
agriculture.
27.          Agricultural research suffers from discontinuity of policies, personnel and
leadership. For example, there have been six Directors General of INIAP since 1981. Each
new administration has resulted in changes in the emphasis, organization, key personnel and
allocation of funds (Posada Torres). Even though INLAP now is an autonomous agency, the
Director must meet political as well as technical criteia and the agency thus is subject to short-
term political pressures. The result is a tendency toward centralized planning and management.
28.          Because research results tend to have a long gestation period, and also to be
location specific even within a countuy, a decentralized system is more efficient (Hayami and
Ruttan, Chapter 12). In South American countries the trend is toward autonomous,
decentralized systems, such as Brazils public corporation, the Brazilian Agency for Agricultural
Research (EMBRAPA). Ecuador needs to strongly consider the efficiencies inherent in a more
decentralized structure of it research systeni, including regionalization of INIAP, and stronger
role for universities.
Recent Improvements
29.          There have been several significant developments, especially during the last
two years, in the Ecuadoran agricultural research system. These developments and policy
changes provide a solid basis upon which a project intervention can be designed and
implemented. Collectively, they are a foundation upon which a new, modernized national
research system can be built.



41
30.          An Autonomous INIAP. INLAP was given financial and administaive
autonomy on July 22, 1992 which has alleviated its salary constaint to some degree. This
autonomy has allowed the Institute to increase its salary levels to a base of US$750 for Ph.Ds
and US$450 for Masters. In practice the Ph.Ds currently employed earn as much as US$1,500
to US$2,000 through joint appointments with or through other entities. INLAP now has the
authority to increase salaries to market levels, but still will be subject to political pressures
about salary levels, since it still is a state agency, Also, it is subject to state rules about
personnel managernent. It can eliminate unwanted positions by buying early retrments, but it
loses the budget associated with the position. And it can only increase its staff through a
complicated approval process.
31.          Nevertheless, INIAP now enjoys substantially greater flexibility which should
facilitate the modernization of the research system. But even with modest increases in salary
levels, the Institute and universities face growing salary pressure from the increasing
internationalization of Ecuador's economy and the resulting integration of the professional
labor market.
32.          An Endowment Fund. INIAP also was given an endowment fimd of
S/. 20,000 million as part of the process of receiving its autonomy. The Government agreed to
pay this in three installments, with the first of S/. 7,000 million (about USS3.25 million at the
current exchange rate of 2,170) already paid, and the second intallment of S/. 7,000 million
now due. This is an important step in increasing budget support for INLAP. However, archaic
regulations force INIAP to invest the fund in state bonds which yield less than the rate of
inflation, so the principal balance is being eroded. If this problem can be addressed, the fimd
will grow to nearly US$10.0 million by 1997. If INLAP sells assets not needed for research,
the find could grow to as much as US$30.0 million by 1999. Interest eamnings on a fund of
this size will make a major contribution to INLAPs budget, as the project comes to an end.
Even with an endowment of this size, however, the Government will need to increase its aual
budget support to INIAP if the country is to meet minimum international standards of one
percent of AgGDP invested in agricultural research.
33.          A Downsizing Plan. lNIAPs current staffing, is 433 consisting of 194
professionals, 47 technicians, 87 administrative stag 50 service staff and 61 vacancies. In
addition six INIAP staff are away on higher degree training and 33 professional staff are
provided through contracts (many of which are in the technology transfer area). The recent
downsizing reduced total staff from 667 to 433 by major cut-backs in non-professional staff
INIAP appears to have done an excellent job in absorbing this reduction, although the number
of technicians per researcher is now below what is normal at research institutes and far below
the ratio in private sector agricultural research in Ecuador. Of the 188 professionals on hand
now 12 (six percent) are involved in senior management at headquarters and the seven research
stations, 11 (six percent) are in finance and administration, 10 (five percent) in the planning and
evaluation unit, five (three percent) in information/communications, 21 (11 percent) in
technology transfer, 13 (seven percent) in production and 116 (62 percent) in conducting
research. This suggests a rational and balanced distribution, particularly as many of the



42
contracted staff not included in this total have a function that relates closely to technology
transfer and validation so that the real figure for this task may be closer to 20 percent.
34.          The manpower plan for training in the project will need to be carefully designed
in terms of disciplines in order to ensure that it is tailored to develop persons who are potential
leaders, while at the same time ensuring that INIAP trains a core of expertise in all key
disciplines. An effort should be made to ensure that all trainees take some courses in
management as this is likely to be an important part of the task of a number of them when they
return. In addition to training biological researchers the training programn should be used to
strengthen the planning/economics expertise in INIAP and also skills in information, so that
INLAP can capitalize on the "information revolution" that is now taking place throughout the
world.
35.          Priority Setting. INIAP has been aware of the need to focus and concentrate
its research program for several years. It has sponsored a careful analysis of research priorities
(Palomino and Norton)20 and has developed and implemented a more focused and
concentrated research program (RIAP 1993b)21. This program includes 12 national programs
covering 20 crops, and another seven interdisciplinary research programs. This new, focused
set of priorities is an improvement over the ad hoc collection of research programs that had
evolved in response to political pressures in the 1980s. The Ministry of Agriculture has
adopted these priorities as the basis for funding subprojects in the Agricultural Research
Project.
36.          Increased University Involvement. Universities have become increasingly
involved in agricultural research throughout the 1980s, with funding support from CONUEP.
They have developed small pockets of capability with substantial local support from farmers
and their associations. They have become increasingly aggressive in pursuing relationships and
funding support from other sources, including international agencies. They also have
developed extension and outreach programs to serve local clientele. The universities represent
a fledgling base of regional support for agricultural research from the private sector. Their
faculty resources need to be further integrated into the research system on a more regular and
sustained basis, for they are an important resource for strengthening and modernizing it.
37.          Expanding Linkages within the System. Linkages among the four major
players in the agricultural research system are increasing. Universities have signed research
contracts with INAP, the Foundation for Agricultural Development (FUNDAGRO) and
others (Venezian and Moncada pp. 44145). NGOs are becoming a more integral part of the of
the agricultural science network in Ecuador through contracts for research with INIAP and
universities. And the private sector has increased its ties to the system, especially to
universities. INIAP has long had important ties to university faculties. It selects students in
20 Palomino, Julio and George Norton. 192. "Determinaci6n de Prioridades de Investigaci6n
Agropecuaria en Ecuador. " Quito INL4P.
21 INIAP. 1993b. "Politicasy Estrategias del Instituto NacionalAutonomo de Investigaciones
Agropecuarias (INIAP). Quito.



43
their last year from various university faculties and provides them with scholarships as part of
the APo Tcnico Rural program (one year of required public service as part of a undegraduae
degree program). In return, the students work at INIAP experiment stations where they learn
basic research skills and do their thesis as part of an INIAP research project, under close
supervision and guidance of INIAP scientists. The numbers of students trained under this
program have ranged from 15-40 per year, depending on the number of positions assigned by
MAG (ISNAR and IICA p. 37). INIAP hires the most capable of these graduates into its
research staff Thus, INIAP identifies a select corps of advanced university students and trains
them in research methodology and applied agricultural sciences. In essence, it provides the
closest thing there is to post-graduate training in agriculture science in Ecuador. It also has had
a fairly good program of advanced training for its staff in various degree and nondegree
programs abroad.



44
ANNEX 4
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECI
Economic Evaluation
1.            Economic analysis for the project has been carried out to test its economic
viability. A multiple criteria model has been utilized in light of the fact that agricultural
research is focused upon different objectives such as: economic growth, distribution of
income and sustainability; multiple criteria models seem to be more appropriate to
evaluate the attainment of different objectives.
2.            The model used is one which was developed in 1990 by the International
Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT). It is a partial equilibrium model called "Analysis
of Economic Surpluses" (MODEXC) and is designed to evaluate the direct benefits of
new technology and associated income distribution results. The evaluation for the
proposed project, which measures the potential impact of technology generation and
transfer projects, uses MODEXC for several reasons:
* The model has a solid theoretical basis. It explicitly includes exogenous changes in
supply and demand, that are not linked to technological change under analysis;
3  The model has been successfully used in a number of studies: Pachico, Lynam and
Jones (1987)22, Alston, Edwards and Freebairn (1988)2, Rivas et al (1992)24,
Jarvis and Sere (1988)25.
*  The resulting indicators permit prioritization among commodities. They show
which commodities produce larger social benefits and which should have a higher
priority when research budgets are being assigned.
22 Pacheco, D. J.K. Lyiman and P. Jones (1987). The distribution of benefits from technical change
among classes of consumers and producers: an ex-ante analysis of beans in Brazil. Research Policy.
Volume 16, No. 5, pp. 279-285.
23 Alston, J.M., G.W. Edwards and J.W. Freebairn (1988) Market distortions and benefits from research.
American Journal of Agnicultural Economics 70(2) pp. 281-288.
24 L. Rivas, James Garcia, Carlos Sere, Lowell S. Jarvis and Luis R Sanint. Modelo de Andis de
Excedentes Econnmicos (MODEXC) abril de 1992 CAT, Documento de Trabajo 107.
25 Sere, C. and L.S. Jarvis (1988): The betting line of beef: ex ante estimates of improved pastures:
research benefits for the Latin American Tropics; Presented in ISNAR\RUTGERS "Agricultural
Technology Management Workshop", Rutgers University, New Bnmswick, New Jersey, July 6-8,
1988.



45
3.          The social benefits and costs for each technological option are estimated
and benefits of each technology are distributed among specific activities (such as genetic
improvements or new fertilization systems). This process allows estimation of economic
efficiency for each activity.
4.          In order to evaluate the impact of technology transfer activities, it is
necessary to emphasize that their objective is to get new technologies accepted by the
market. Given this fact, it is necessary to consider these activities in the technology
generation process, and quantify the benefits according to their relative weight in the
process. This should be taken into account when the case of the National Autonomous
Institute for Agricultural Research (INIAP) is analyzed. It should be remembered that
INIAP does not transfer technology to producers. Its mission is to generate and validate
technology for the use of private and public organizations that are in charge of transfer
and extension activities.
5.          The selection of commodities considered under the analysis is based on the
relative weight each commodity holds in the gross national agricultural product (GNAP).
The GNAP used in this case represents the average for years 1991 through 1993.
6.          The result is a group of 19 products that accounts for 97 percent of the
total aggregate value of domestic production. However, the model has been run for just
16 products --excluding sugar cane, tomatoes and cotton, that only account for four
percent of total aggregate production. The following table shows the assumed average
annual growth rate for each of the 16 products. The output projections are based on
NIAP historical data which measures the impact of a package of technology (similar to
the one applied under the proposed project) on commodity production. The price
projections are based on historical commodity price trends.



46
Average Annual Rate of Growth of Prices and Production
Thousands of US$
Rice                  0.9/O        3.1%
Bananas               0.2%          1.5%
Cocoa                 -1.7%         3.2%
Coffee                 1.3%         0.4%
Beef                  0.2%          2.5%
Barley                -1.3%         1.4%
Dry Beans             -3.5%         2.5%
Milk                  -0.8%         3.90/o
Maize                 -0.9%         3.5%
Sweet Corn            3.3%         -1.4%
Maize Soft Dry        -0.2%         1.90/a
Oil Palm              0.2%          1.5%
Potatoes              -2.5%         2.70/a
Plantains             -1.7%         2.90/o
Soybeans              0.1%          1.70/o
Wheat                 -2.90/o      -1.0%Vo
Average               -0.6%         1.9%/6
7.           These growth assumptions for specific commodities, along with the
following additional assumptions have been incorporated in the economic model in order
to estimate benefits for the overall project. These additional assumptions include:
3 An estimation of the exogenous production growth rates and demand for the
commodities considered under the analysis;
*  Identification of supply and demand price elasticity, and demand income elasticity
values for the selected commodities;
*  The consumption structure for selected commodities in relation to income levels
consistent with those of beneficiaries under the project; and
*  Identification of farm models representative of farms impacted by the project.
8.          In addition, to measure the impact of specific technologies under the
project, technical coefficients and research costs associated with new technologies, and the
way in which these technologies influence the supply of the selected commodities, have
been estimated. These estimates include the:
* Yields of the new and present technologies;
* Time frame in which the new technologies are inplemented;



47
* Time frame for adoption of the new technologies;
* Potential land area where new technologies could be used;
* Percentage of potential area required by the new technologies;
* Research activities that are undertaken to obtain a given technology;
* Estimate of the probability of success of the research process; and
* Cash flow of research costs for each activity and technology.
9.           This data allows for the estimation of increased production because of
technological change and its adoption by farmers. The yield growth rates used in the
assumptions are averaged over the period used in the evaluation, while real growth rates
may be more uneven. It is also assumed that the technologies are scale neutral and all
farmers will participate in their use to varying extents. This is purely technical infonnation,
taken directly at INIAP's research stations, from interviews with different commodity
research specialists.
10.          The model calculates points of market equilibrium for each of the fifteen
years in which the project is evaluated. Based on this, the model estimates producers and
consumer surpluses, separating those that can be ascribed to technological factors. It
should be kept in mind that the benefits ascribed to the project are only a part of the total
benefits. Only thirty per cent of the surpluses, multiplied by the probability of success for
each technology through the research and transfer process has been considered the benefit
that can be ascribed to the project. This probability of success ranges between 75 and 80
percent depending on the specific technology.
11.          The results of calculating the market equilibrium for all commodities
considered under the analysis, and separating out only benefits which accrue from
technology use, are shown in the following table. Total net benefits are estimated at
nearly US$750 million in year 15. Using the methodology described in paragraph 10 to
estimate the portion of these total benefits which can be ascribed to the proposed project,
net benefits from the project are estimated at nearly US$176 million in year 15.
12.          Using the benefit flows attributable to the project, as shown in the
following table, and the project costs for both Agricultural Research and Extension, the
Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) are calculated. The NPV is
estimated at about US$389 million, using a discount rate of 12 percent. The IRR is
estimated at 52 percent. These results are in line with numerous ex post studies regarding
the impact of agriculture research and technology projects in Latin America and
worldwide.



48
Research and Technology Transfer Benefits
Thousands of US$
1995               9,763              2,174
1996               13,112             3,028
1997              101,310            23,912
1998              167,849            39,450
1999              223,262            52,693
2000              354,771             83,736
2001              431,059            100,938
2002              485,149            112,557
2003              521,897            120,916
2004              553,068            128,337
2005              586,303            136,283
2006              622,374            144,914
2007              661,486            154,277
2008              704,012            164,461
2009              749,910            175,459
13.         Finally, the analysis also shows that there are significant benefits to
international trade; that is, for the commodities which were analyzed using an open
economy assumption. For most of these, there is a high probability that exports would
increase, assuming appropriate economic policies, infrastructure, and sanitary conditions.
14.         The following table shows that the commercial benefits, which would
accrue from increased exports of these commodities, would significantly improve
Ecuador's trade balance. When the results of the model application are consolidated, the
trade surplus for these products could grow by 49 percent in the year 2,000, from
US$415 millions to US$619 millions, and at the end of the project it could more than
triple to US$1,303 million.



49
Imports and Exports 1992 and Projections for 2000 and 2009
Thousands of US$
Rice                          20,168 T101478 T351,993 
Bananas                      472,629          546,022 |579,202|
Cocoa               1          6,236            1,288           11,260
Coffee                        10,889           15,038           13,507
Beef                               0            14,124          75,677
Barley                        (3,171)          (6,032)          (9,586)
DryBeans*l                         0                0                0
Milk                           (325)           26,743          300,056
Maize                             (4)           14,450          80,779
SweetCorn*                         0                0                0
Maize Soft Dry                     0                7               11
OilPalm**                     (1,012)            1,106            1,025
Potatoes**                         0                0                0
Plantain**                         0                0                0
Soybeans**                   (43,774)         (43,770)         (43,779)
Wheat                        (46,558)1        (51,362)|        (57,279)
Total                        415,078 l        619,094         1,302,866
* Not a tradable product.       ** Palm Oil.
Sensitivity Analysis
15.         The sensitivity analysis canied out for the project tests the impact of either
overall income decreases or cost increases. As the following tables show, by decreasing
benefits such that income resulting from the project falls by 20 percent, the estimated internal
rate of return would decline by eight percent. This represents a reduction in the NPV of about
US$95 million. Because of the relatively high NPV and return, as the switching value
demonstrates, benefits would have to fall by over 80 percent to obtain an NPV of zero. A
20 percent increase in overall costs yields similar NPV and IRR results. To obtain an NPV of
zero, costs would have to increase by nearly six times.
16.         These results suggest that project returns are quite sensitive to movements in
overall benefits and costs. Such sensitivity can be explained somewhat by the significant
variation of commodities incorporated in the model and the associated range of estimates for
movements in prices and output. Furthermore, the estimated benefits are based exclusively on
improved product yields, directly linked to commodity prices and output. There is no
consideration of off-farm income which could result from the project and would be mnore stable
than income from the production and sale of commodities. In any case, as the switching values
indicate, the estimated project returns and net present value are significantly high enough that a



50
20 percent unfavorable shift in either benefits or costs would not produce negative overall
reslts.
Benefits Reduced by 20 Percent
Thousands of US$
1995               1,739             51,250            49,511
1996               2,423             15,864           -13,442
1997               19,130            15,954            3,176
1998              31,560             13,281            18,279
1999              42,155              8,273            33,882
2000               66,989                              66,989
2001               80,750                              80,750
2002               90,045                              90,045
2003               96,733                              96,733
2004              102,669                             102,669
2005              109,027                             109,027
2006              115,931                             115,931
2007              123,421                             123,421
2008              131,568                             131,568
2009              140,367       _    _     _          140,367
NPV: US$294,905         IRR: 44%           Switching Value: -82%



51
Costs Increased by 20 Percent
Thousands of US$
\(W1 var       Projec(t lBeiletfis   (Costs          Net I (4i'Iit0
ltetI(lc e(i   h)N 20"i.0
1995               2,174             61,500           -59,326
1996               3,028             19,037           -16,009
1997              23,912             19,145            4,768
1998              39,450             15,937           23,513
1999              52,693             9,927            42,766
2000               83,736                              83,736
2001              100,938                             100,938
2002              112,557                             112,557
2003              120,916                             120,916
2004              128,337                             128,337
2005              136,283                             136,283
2006              144,914                             144,914
2007              154,277                             154,277
2008              164,461                             164,461
2009              175,459      1                1    175,459
NPV: US$372,776         IRR: 46%           Switching Value: +570%



52
ANNEX 5
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Guidelines for the Competitve Research Grants Program and Research and
Education Exchange Partnerships
1.          A Competitive Research Grants Program (CRG Program) is a new venture
in Ecuador. Fortunately, as suggested above, it is not a totally foreign concept to
professionals there, many of whom have been educated in the United States or in Europe.
Several agricultural researchers and engineers in both university and private nonprofit
industry sectors that have competed successfully for research awards from foreign
institutions, such as the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D.C., U. S.A. Moreover, the
Ecuadoran university community already has an identifiable competitive grants program in
place, which is administered by CONUEP (Manual de Evaluaci6n de Proyectos de
Investigaci6n). It should be noted, however, that although a competitive grants program
is in place in the universities, the program has never been funded at the recommended level
of 1.0 percent of GNP. In 1992, for example CONUEPs available research funds were
under 0.01 percent GNP. Thus, while the program may not be well known, or appreciated
in all sectors, its existence shows that there is a small number of agricultural scientists and
engineers at work in the universities. They should be able to prepare research proposals
and compete in a CRG Program, even though their number might be small.
2.           A CRG Program operates on the principle that the system selects for
scientific excellence by providing the Principle Investigator (PI), or the Project Director
(PD) with adequate funding to enable research on a particular topic. Research enablement
typically includes support for personnel, research materials, research instrumentation,
opportunities for attending and participating at scientific meetings, and paying costs for
publishing scientific results in edited professional journals. The PI is the designated
individual researcher responsible for preparing and submitting the research grant, and for
carrying out the research plan. A PD is an individual researcher responsible for
administering a group, or team, of researchers working on a specific research theme. For
example, a PD would be the professional scientist in charge of a multidisciplinary, multi-
institutional association of university, INLAP, NGO, and/or private sector laboratories.
3.           The CRG Program encourages, and sometimes requires, multidisciplinary,
multi-institutional associations or partnerships. For example, an individual research grant
has one PI, but may have additional Co-PIs, or Contractors, from different disciplines
and/or institutions. This arrangement is always encouraged, where appropriate, and
allows for the performance of joint research projects between different university, INIAP,
NGOs, and private sector laboratories. (Private sector research laboratories will be
eligible to enter into partnerships with these entities and will be expected to provide
appropriate matching support for the project.).



53
4.          The success of the CRG Program in identifying and supporting excellent
research requires a simple, direct system for Award selection. The steps in the process are
few and are summarized below (a detailed description follows in Figure 1):
* the PI/PD submits the proposal for scientific peer review to the Research
Implementation Unit (MU) via his/her institutional base;
*  the proposal is checked for completeness and entered into the competition;
*  the proposal is reviewed by the MU Director in charge of its review and sent to
five panel members with a request for written reviews;
*  the Peer Review Panel convenes, as scheduled, to discuss each proposal and
make funding recommendations (after discussion of each proposal, the five
panelists responsible for earlier written reviews prepare an additional statement
to convey the "sense" of the panel discussion to the PI, i.e., was the proposal
received enthusiastically, was the research topic well presented, interesting,
was it competitive, or, if not, what might the PI do to make it competitive,
etc.); and
- the MU makes a final funding decision and notifies the PI and the grantee (the
PIs institutional base) if an Award is to be made and the amount.
Applicant
Principal
Investigator
MU 
Office                                   T
Recipient
Institution
MU
Officer
, i \       '             ~MU
Site Visit    0                                    Officer
Recommendation
Mail (ad hoc)            Proposal
Review  .                as is/if
Revised 
Panel       t   ,\
Review                                             Overall
Discussions with Applicant            Evaluation
Figure 1: Flow Chart for Competitive Review of Research Grant Proposals



54
5.          As illustrated in Figure 1, once the applicant proposal arrives at the MU
office, the process of review begins. The proposal is checked by office staff for
completeness and compliance with format guidelines as defined in the Operational Manual.
In the event that the proposal is incomplete, or is not compliant, the proposer will be
notified and given ten working days to send the required number of corrected copies of
the proposal. Each proposal is assigned an identification number by office staff, and the
proposal is given to an MU Officer.
6.           The MU Officer will review the proposal further for compliance with
format guidelines and for appropriateness in the research program. Inappropriate
proposals are those determined to lie outside MU funding areas and will be withdrawn
from competition. The proposer will be notified of this decision. The proposal will not
normally be returned.
7.           Careful review of each research grant proposal is a time-consuming,
laborious task. As illustrated in Figure 1, the MU Officer must judge each proposal
separately based upon the reviews of experts in the field. All the proposals will be
reviewed by the Peer Review Panel. Review panel discussions of research grant proposals
occur behind closed doors. Only MU personnel and other individuals authorized by the
MU office may be present during these discussions.
8.          Under circumstances when the MU Officer performs a site-visit and/or
sends the proposal to additional experts for ad hoc (outside) review (in addition to Peer
Review Panelists), panel members requested to review the proposal must always be
informed of the results of these actions. The MU may decide to pursue these additional
modes of review either before or after the Peer Review Panel meeting. Proposals of
"sitting" members on the Peer Review Panel only may be reviewed without direct
consultation with the Peer Review Panel. In these cases, the MU Officer must obtain the
professional evaluation (in writing and signed) of three experts in the field in order to
arrive at a funding decision. This decision must also be agreed to by at least one
additional, appropriate MU grant review officer.
9.           At the end of the review, PI/PD notification begins. The PI/PDs of Awards
are notified first by telephone and officially once all conditions are met, through his/her
grantee business office. To initiate the Award, the MU explains the conditions and
requests the PI/PD to prepare and send an Abstract (about 200 words) of the project in
laymans terms for public information, and a revised budget section and research grant
cover sheet, signed by both the PI/PD(s) and the grantee responsible officer if the amount
of the Award is different from that originally requested. After all the requisite budgetary
documents have been signed and submitted to the MU office, the Award can be made and
money transferred to the appropriate grantee business office. Finally, a congratulatory
letter with copies of proposal reviews (names of reviewers are confidential and do not
show on these copies) and the panel statement are sent to the PI/PD.



55
10.         In the CRG Program when an Award is made, the PI/PD institutional base
(e.g., university, INIAP, or NGO) is the grantee and is responsible for the institutional
accountability of the MU research moneys. This is generally handled by specialists in
business/accounting offices. The accounting office must establish an account in the name
of the PI/PD by which he/she can authorize spending award money in the support of the
research project. In the event that the PI/PD official changes institutions, any residual,
available funds from the Award will be transferable to the new PM/PD support institution.
11.         In a similar manner, letters of decline are prepared for each one of the
proposals not to be funded. These letters express regrets and are accompanied by copies
of each review (names of reviewers are confidential and do not show on these copies) plus
a Peer Review Panel statement, which should reflect the tone and note important points
raised during panel discussion that could be of use in reshaping and/or focusing the
research program for resubmission.
12.         Award Selection Criteria. The Award selection is the most important
activity of the Competitive Grant System and the final decision to recommend an Award
rests with the MU Officer responsible for the grant review. However, in every review
process the scientific merit of grant proposals that lie outside the MU Officers area of
expertise must be decided. In this, and all other cases as well, the MU officer must obtain
evidence to support a decision from experts in the research area of the grant proposal. As
outlined in the previous section. three resources for proposal review are available: site-
visits on the part of the MU officer, or other qualified professional designated by the MU
officer; ad hoc (reviewers not on the Peer Review Panel) mail reviews; and
recommendations made by panelists in their reviews and after discussions at the formal
panel meeting. All proposals will be reviewed by the Peer Review Panel (except those
submitted by panelists themselves; see earlier discussion). The proposal will be judged by
at least three panelists independently (before the panel meeting, panelists will have written
and signed their independent proposal reviews and distributed them to the other
appropriate panel members beforehand), and finally after panel discussion. The MU
officer may rely only on panelists, or can choose independently or at the request of the
panel, to seek additional expert advice by ad hoc review and/or by conducting a site visit.
No pending proposal(s) from a panelist present at the panel session will be mentioned on
the list of proposals given to the panel to review. These proposals will be reviewed solely
by ad hoc review.
13.         In the process of judging the scientific merit of any research grant proposal
addressing INIAP initiatives and other national priorities in agricultural research
established by MAG, the responsible MU officer should consider the following criteria
stated briefly below in arriving at a funding decision.
* Research Performance Competence. Is the PI/PD capable/experienced in
performing proposed experiments, is the proposed technical approach sound,
and are facilities available to perform the work?



56
* Intrinsic Merit of the Research. What will be the end result of the project and
will it contribute to, or lead to, important advances in the field?
* Utility or Relevance of the Research. Will the results of the project make
important contributions to general knowledge outside the immediate area of
interest, and serve as a basis for improved technology or as a solution to
environmental problems?
* Will the project contribute to a better understanding or improvement of
agricultural production, implementation of better measures for protection of
the environment, as well as stimulate further research, education; and
*  development of manpower in agriculture sciences?
14.         In addition, the "Manual de Evaluacion de Proyectos de Investigaci6n"
(CONUEP, 1991) cites additional important criteria that include but are not limited to:
clarity of presentation, organization of ideas in a convincing manner, identification of
research objectives and goals, significance of the research program, and proper grammar.
Research and Education Exchange Partnerships with International Institutions
15.         Research and Education and Exchange Partnerships would be based on
themes that are designated as areas of national priorities by the Ministry of Agriculture and
would be based in Ecuadoran research institutes, foundations and universities.
Partnerships based in institutes and foundations would emphasize research while those
based in universities would emphasize education and training in agricultural research. The
Partnership grant would be awarded to the Ecuadoran institution.
16.         The role of the Partnerships with International Institutions is to:
*  foster joint research program development;
*  develop academic units with the intellectual recognition for functioning
as the units for awarding graduates in agricultural sciences at the M.S.
level;
*  organize special 6 to 8 month introductory course on the agricultural
theme of the Partnership to be taken by all appropriate Ph.D. and M.S.
fellowship candidates before their departure for foreign study. These
special courses should be organized to form the center of a fully
developed, recognized M.S. degree program;
* establish specialized technological centers equipped with research
equipment items in support of research and technology transfer;



57
* recruit and help to identify candidates for Ph.D. and M.S. fellowships;
* attract highly qualified Ph.D.-level professionals to participate in the
program as adjunct faculty members; and
* purchase laboratory materials to help support Ecuadoran student
graduate degree thesis research.
17.          Partnership facilities and personnel will play a major role in the
development of the Ecuadoran agricultural community in technical development and
educational training. However, the number of advanced degree personnel both within
INIAP and in the universities is too small to accomplish the task alone. To help make up
for this "short fall" appointments must be made of adjunct faculty bearing the degree of
Ph.D. and actively working the field.
18    .     Adjunct faculty appointments are quite common among developed country
universities and are used to bring individuals with highly specialized skills, who hold Ph.D.
degrees, into a specific program, or into an academic unit,. These adjunct faculty
members are nonpaid salary appointments who receive voting/decision-making privileges
within the "appointing" unit, where they also benefit from the prestige of the appointment
and their association with the research program itself. Faculty members from U.S.
institutions often participate in programs such as these by obtaining paid leaves of absence
from their home institutions. Room and board living expenses are usually provided by the
host institution. For this, adjunct faculty members will bring their own expertise to bear
on the project in Ecuador. They will also be required to aid in the host institutions
teaching responsibilities either in the classroom or in the research laboratory. All adjunct
professors and adjunct faculty appointments from the private sector (qualified personnel
who hold the degree of Ph.D. in an appropriate area), need to participate in the 6 to 8
month introductory course on the agricultural theme of the Partnership. It is believed that
this classroom/laboratory experience can serve to initiate graduate student training in
Ecuador. Thus, adjunct faculty appointments will be made to qualified academicians and
private sector professionals in Ecuador and outside the country.
19.         The development of graduate degree programs inside Ecuador should be a
primary objective of the Partnership program, especially in university-based projects. The
Central University of Quito, the largest public university in Ecuador, is already organizing
and presenting course offerings in agricultural sciences using faculty recruited from both
within and outside of Ecuador. At present the postgraduate program (Programa de
Postgrado en Ciencias Agricolas) has three 10 week course offerings with meetings
occurring approximately once each month over an entire year. A Diploma of
Specialization (Diploma de Especialista) is granted upon completion of all 10 modules.
Initiatives such as this one, suggest that the organization of a 6 to 8 month introductory
course by individual universities using both university regular and adjunct faculty should
be readily possible.



58
20.         In accord with this discussion, a Partnership with its adjunct faculty (and
appropriate adjunct technical researchers) can become the site for the formation of a M.S.
degree program in a specific area. These M.S. degree programs should begin to be
developed one year after the first Partnership awards have been made. It will not be
possible to begin to organize a recognized Ph.D. degree program for at least ten years,
after Ph.Ds trained in this program return and have had the opportunity to develop their
own research careers in Ecuador. Even then, the research community will need to
continue to rely upon adjunct faculty interest and cooperation, and these programs will
most likely be inter-institutional.
21.          A Partnership Grant should not be looked upon as a permanent mechanism
for the funding of a group of investigators, but as a mechanism that serves a particular
purpose at a particular time in the scientific development of the Ecuadoran agricultural
research community. It would be expected that some projects initiated under Partnership
funding might evolve or expand in such a way as to warrant separate lines of support,
while new Partnership projects would emerge to take their place. When a Partnership no
longer fulfills the intended puipose, it would be expected to come to a natural end. As
such time, support of ongoing research may, of course, be sought under the Competitive
Research Grants Program.
22.          "Sister" Institution Partnerships. There are a large number of models
available for both informal and formal "sister" institutional alignments. The formation of
an analogous networks can be organized in joint INIAP, university, private sector research
partnerships with international institutions in Ecuador. Institutional Partnerships must be
organized with great care and the "sister" institute must be fully aware of what is
expected. In the case of universities, the Ecuadoran institution will cooperate with its
"sister" institute in both student education and in laying the groundwork for a degree-
granting Ecuadoran "institution" in agricultural services.
23.          The task of training foreign graduate students is the traditional role of most
"sister" institute partnerships. Graduate student training will begin in Ecuador in special
introductory courses (in which appropriate "sister" institute adjunct faculty members will
participate) followed by additional course work at the foreign "sister" institute or other
appropriate institution. Once this course work is completed, students will return to their
Ecuadoran institution. In the case of the Ph.D. candidate, to perform his/her research
thesis work. Once the Ph.D. thesis research is completed to the satisfaction of both
institutions, the degree candidate will return to the "sister" institute, or other appropriate
institution, to defend the thesis in accord with the requirements for the degree of Ph.D.
24.          The task of building a recognized award granting entity in Ecuador in
agricultural research will be long-term as discussed earlier. At present, the Ecuadoran
agricultural research community is small and does not have a critical number of Ph.D.-
level personnel to grant a recognized graduate degree. This could begin to change,
however, under favorable conditions that will allow for the Competitive Research Grants
program to take affect, and which in turn should give employment for returning young



59
Ph.D. researchers to Ecuador and provide them with the means to organize their own
research programs. As a beginning, the Partnership with useful "Sister" Institution
Partnerships can operate to form a foundation. In keeping with this objective, the
Ecuadoran university in its negotiations with a sister institute, must make the need clear
for sharing in the responsibility of laying the groundwork for a graduate degree granting
program in Ecuador through active faculty teaching/research commitments.
25.         Applicants for advanced degree fellowships will be evaluated on their
ability, accomplishments, and potential as evidenced by letters of recommendation; results
on standardized graduate school entry examinations (as required by the admissions
committee at a "sister" institution); the quality and significance of their proposed research
topic; the cross-disciplinary potential of the research topic; and the likely impact of the
proposed training and research on the applicant's future scientific development and long-
range career goals. Applications will be reviewed by an advisory committee comprised of
faculty members which includes adjunct faculty members. This advisory committee will
make its recommendations to the NGO administering the competitive aspects of the
project where final selection of graduate fellows will be made. The NGO will notify
awardees within one month after the advisory committee recommendation, and
immediately begin to lay plans, in consultation with the sponsoring Ecuadoran institution,
for the student's advanced graduate training outside the country. This could include
language training, as appropriate.
26.         Administration of the Partnerships. The Director of the MU will have
primary responsibility for organizing the Partnership grant review and award processes
which will also be adjudicated by the Peer Review Panel. To respond effectively to the
research and educational needs of a growing Ecuadoran Agricultural Research
Community, the duties of the MU officers must be far-reaching and their decisions should
be viewed as being informed and just. They should include, but are not limited to:
*  helping to identify and interpret national priorities in agriculture established by
the MAG in terms appropriate to education/training topic areas in the
agricultural sciences;
*  working closely with Partnership grantees to establish excellent "sister"
institution partnerships in strong support for advanced degree education of
Ecuadoran students and in aiding to lay the groundwork for a recognized
degree-granting entity in agricultural sciences in Ecuador;
*  aiding universities, institutes and foundations receiving agricultural research
grant support in identifying and recruiting students qualified for advanced
training at the M.S. and Ph.D. levels in agricultural sciences;
*  working with universities in organizing an appropriate graduate fellowship
advisory committee comprised of both regular faculty and adjunct faculty
members;



60
*  assisting advanced degree fellows, in consultation with the sponsoring
researcher(s) and the appropriate SATC unit in preparing the student for
graduate studies outside Ecuador. (The Educational Director should already
be in direct contact with appropriate "sister" universities and/or placement
services);
*  seeing to the personal needs graduate fellowship awardees while outside the
country; and
*  helping arrange for students to return to Ecuador to do thesis work on
appropriate topics.



61
ANNEX 6
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Priorities for Research
Memorandum No. 0156 SPIS/DPIPS
TO             Technical and Administrative Undersecretary
FROM           Director of Sector Planning, Investment and Budget
SUBJECT       Selection and Prioritization of Crops and Livestock
DATE           February 8, 1995
Since the matter is considered of great importance for proper management by the
agnculture sector authorities, it has been thought advisable to select and rank the crops and
livestock on which the State should focus its attention, in view of the limited resources available. I
am accordingly detailing in the following the background data, criteria and procedures used in
selecting and ranking the crops and livestock discussed and their identification.
L     Background Data and Justification
Agricultural policy management in the closing years of the twentieth century does
not have the same roots and purposes as in the early 1900s. The circumstances have changed
drastically, especially if the situation as it was then is compared with the 1950s and 1960s when
the so-called "Green revolution " was at its height. The flow of events has caused successive
governments to take steps aimed primarily at meeting domestic supply needs and including
adoption of measures designed to ensure responsible use and control of renewable natural
resources.
For a while, the public sectors concern did not go beyond obtaining higher
productivity and profitability, so that emphasis was placed on the research and extension services
as a means for harnessing the potentials offered by technological development. However, this
policy proved inadequate as the years passed. The social changes and pressures, the deterioration
of the environment as a result of overuse and poor management of natural and technological
resources, the variable behavior of the market in the vast field formed by a supply and demand
extending beyond the national borders and the demands for larger incomes expressed by the
various actors in the agriculture sector gave rise to a more complex and less linear approach to the
problems noted.



62
Accordingly, generation and transfer of technology and the establishment of a
price policy with a view to increasing productivity and improving profitability are no longer the
only goals, but steps are envisaged for upgrading product quality, ensuring appropriate use of
agricultural chemnicals and biological agents to reduce toxicity and pollution levels in persons and
the environment, locating and delirmiting crops in light of their agroecological and commercial
possibilities, conserving natural resources by means of appropriate use and providing the
infrastructure and services necessary for the production, conservation and transportation of
agrolivestock and forestry products.
In this context, the strategies to be employed and the application of new know
how, such as the organization and training of groups for self-nanagement purposes, design,
dissemination and implementation of agrosylvopastoral systems and their derivatives, and the
application of biotechnology, are also irnportant.
In light of the foregoing, it will be readily apparent that the conceptual framework,
for development purposes, of the agriculture sector has changed. Today production and
productivity are not the only concems, but consideration is also given to return and sustainable
managernent of the resources used in the production process, especially those connected with
preservation of the environment.
However, the promotion and implementation of all these activities are subject to
the funds available, which is why all the needs cannot be met simultaneously in a given time
period. Selection and prioritization are therefore called for, so that the results obtained will be real
and highly beneficial, both from the economic standpoint and in the social and ecological spheres.
IL    Criteria and Procedures for Selection and Prioritization
In accordance with the above, the Directorate of Planning formulated seven
criteria that facilitated the selection and ranking of the crops and livestock on which the
agricultural public sector will have to concentrate in the short and medium term. These criteria are
the following:
Area cultivated or total number of animals per species.
Potential percentage increase in productivity.
-     Number of technologies available per crop or species of animal.
-     lInportance of the product in the family shopping basket.
-     Possibilities of exporting the product.
-     The products commercial perfonnance.



63
The weighting factors are described in Attachment 1 and the information required
for the ratings is extracted from documents produced by the Directorates of Policy Analysis,
Agricultural Infonnation and Renewable Natural Resources; and of Research, Technology
Transfer and Extension.
In addition, the National Agricultural Research Institute (anstituto Naciona de
Investigaciones Agropecuarias - ILMP) has also produced for its own account a selection and
prioritization of crops and livestock, based on the following criteria assigned appropriate
weightings:
-     Effective demand for technology on the farmers' part.
-     Need for research.
-     Social importance of the item in terms of food supply.
-     Availability of technology for transfer.
-     Commercial potential.
As is apparent, three of these five criteria coincide with those applied by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Stockraising (MAG).
Finally, the Directorate of Research, Technology Transfer and Extension has
drawn up its own list using criteria similar to those detailed above.
At a meeting organized by the Directorate of Planning to agree on priorities as
regards crops and livestock, a committee was appointed to harnonize the various criteria used by
the agencies referred to aad to draw up a definitive and official list for the Ministry of Agriculture
and Stockraising. The committee was made up of representatives of the Directorates of Planning,
Agricultural Information and Renewable Natural Resources, and of Research, Technology
Transfer and Extension.
The procedure foliowed by the committee in establishing the priorities was to
compare the three lists available and to rank the crops and livestock in accordance with those
placing highest in the three lists, while those shown as least priority are those which only featured
in one of them, plus some others that the committee considered on account of certain factors
analyzed in the relevant session.
Attachment 2 sets out the comparative lists.



64
Im    Priority Crops and Livestock
On the basis of the criteria and procedures agreed upon and the exchange of views
among the committee members, three priority echelons were established, each of which consists of
ten products:
Echelon 1 is mnade up of the following products, in the order shown: rice, coffee,
potatoes, cocoa, flint maize, soft maize, bovine cattle, bananas and plantains, soybeans and kidney
beans.
Echelon 2 is made up of: cassava, wheat, broad beans, peas, barley, cotton,
regular tomatoes, tree tomatoes, quinoa and swine.
Echelon 3 comprises: oil palm, sugarcane, naranjilla, apples, guineapigs, mangoes,
babaco, peaches and lemons.
Attachment 3 summarizes the factors that determined the selection and
prioritization of the crops and livestock listed.
It should be noted that the above list is not exclusive, exhaustive or final, since
future circumstances may change the order of priorities, or cause some products to be dropped
and others to be added.
(sgd.) Arturo Chavez C.
Attachmnents: as stated
cc:   Ing. Jaime Durango
Directors of Agricultural Informnation, Renewable Natural Resources, Research,
Technology Transfer and Extension



65
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Valuation Criteria for Assigning Priority to Crops and Livestock
ITEM                 REFERENCE UNIT   VALUATION
1. Area cultivated                Ha                    1 point per 20,000 ha
2. Percentage potential increase in    %                1 point for each 10% increase
productivity
3. Importance in family shopping  Very important        10 points
basket                            Important             5 points
Of minor importance   2 points
4. Technologies available         No. of technologies    0.5 point for each technology
5. Possibility of industrial processing  Excellent      10 points
Very good            8 points
Good                 5 points
Regular              3 points
Slight               1 point
6. Possibility of exports
Excellent            10 points
Very good            8 points
Good                 5 points
Regular              3 points
Slight               1 point
7. Commercial performance26
Excellent            10 points
Very good            8 points
Good                 5 points
Regular              3 points
Poor                 1 point
26 The commercial performance weightings were based on the percentage increase in prices between 1980 and 1993.



66
ANNEX 6
Attachment 2
Prioritization of Crops and Livestock
PRIORITY        INIAP      DITTE            MAG DIR. OF             MAG
PLANNING    COMM[TTEE
1ST          Rice         Rice              Bovine cattle    Rice
ECHELON   Cocoa            Flint corn       Oilpalm          Coffee
Coffee       Coffee            Flint maize      Potatoes
Potatoes     Cocoa             Coffee           Cocoa
Flint maize    Potatoes        Potatoes         Flint maize
Plantains     Soft maize       Rice             Soft maize
Bananas      Cassava           Cocoa            Beef & dairy cattle
Soft maize    Plantains        Wheat            Bananas & plantains
Beef cattle    Beef cattle     Soft maize       Soybeans
Dairy cattle   Dairy cattle    Broad beans      Kidney beans
2ND          Kidney beans  Cotton           Soybeans         Cassava
ECHELON   Soybeans         Regular          Bananas          Wheat
Quinoa       tomatoes          Kidney beans     Broad beans
Cassava      Wheat             Cassava          Peas
Broad beans  Barley            Peas             Barley
Naranjilla    Tree tomatoes    Cotton           Cotton
Tree         Melons            Barley           Regular tomatoes
tomatoes     Mangoes           Peanuts          Tree tomatoes
Peas         Quinoa            Regular          Quinoa
Apples       Kidney beans      tomatoes         Swine
Barley       Peas              Plantains
3RD                                                          Oilpalm
ECHELON                                                      Sugarcane
Naranjilla
Apples
Guineapigs
Mangoes
Peanuts
Babaco
Peaches



67
ANNEX 6
Attachment 3
Reasons for the Selection and Prioritization of Crops and Livestock
First Echelon of Priority
1TEM                                    REASONS
RICE                  Crop of primary importance for the family shopping baske, with export possibilities but requiring
technological improvements to increase productivity and reduce costs.
COFFEE                Export crop, with low unit yields, poor bean quality and oversupply. Rerewal and rehabilitation of
plantations are warranted m the best areas for the crop, while diversification is called for where it is
marinal, and also improvemet m the processing of the beans and developmeat of upland coffee.
COCOA                 Export crop, with good commercial performance, which requires renewal and rehabiiato of the
plantations and upgrading of bean quality.
FLINT MAIZE           Basic crop for livestock feed, the main indirect input for obtaining pouty and pig meat, with
productivity indexes that are still low and good industrial possibilities.
POTATOES              A widely grown product characterized by oversupply and a family shopping basket staple, with
productivity indexes that are still low and very susceptible to attack by numerous pests and disases.
The present type and level of pesticide application are causing toxicity and pollution problems in
persons and soils, a siuation that requires immediate attention.
SOFT MAIZE            A crop cultivated in large areas of the upland regions, with low productivity and some industrial
opporunities. It is an important food staple in the uplands.
BANANAS AND           Crops that are both exported and consumed domestically in large quantities, susceptible to attack by
PLANTAINS             senous pests and diseases and which need better management in order to obtain higher pnces in the
intenmational markets.
BOVINE CATTLE         Veiy important in tenns of the family shopping basket, as the main source of meat and milk, with
low yields, good industial and export possibilities and excellent commnercial performance.
SOYBEANS              Crop of primary importance (as oil) in the family basket, low productivity indexes, good industrial
and domestic market possibilities and good conmercial performance.
KIDNEY BEANS          Widely grown crop, a family basket staple, with low productivity indexes and good export
possibilities.



68
Second Echelon of Pnority
ITEM                                    REASONS
CASSAVA               A very important food staple in the coastal and eastern regions, with excellent industrial possibilities
and good export prospects.
WHEAT                 A very important food staple, mostly imported, and requiring better technological experbise to
improve its productivity and return.
BROAD BEANS           Legumes, of good nutritional content, an important foodstuff especially for rural dwellers, with
excellet possibilities for increasing their productivity and return and very good conmnercial
performance.
PEAS                  Legumes, very important in the family shopping basket, with excellent potential for increasing their
productivity and very good commercial performance.
BARLEY                An important food staple for the rual upland population, with considerable possibilities for
industrial processing and export as a processed product (beer) and good commercial perfonnance.
COTTON                A basic input for the country's textile ixustry, very susceptible to pests, good commercial
performance.
REGULAR               An important product in the family shopping basket, with well developed industial processing; their
TOMATOES              cultivation suffers from excessive pesticide use and urgent adjustments are needed to preserve the
populations health.
TREE TOMATOES         A fnait with excellent vitamin content and medicinal properties; very good export possibilities but
presently involving serious health problems. Excellent commercial performance.
QUINOA                Product with h_i protei content and good prospects for domestic and nternatio  consum_ption,
and also for idusti processing.
SWINE                 Animals which convert agricultural surpluses into meat and serve as a good income source for
low-income farmers.



69
Third Echelon of Priority
1TEM                                    REASONS
OILPALM               An industrial crop, of prinary importance for the family basket (oil) and with good export
possibilities. The producers are well organized and marketing is running smooily, so this crop
should require little public attention.
SUGARCANE             The private sector being well organized and efficient, than occasional political support is needed
from the public sector.
NARANJILLA            A fnut that is very important for the economy of the regions, the naranjilla needs research and
etension to combat pests and diseases.
APPLES                A frnit crop whose quality can be upgraded, leading to fewer imports.
GUINEAPIGS            Small domestic animals widely raised by the low-income rural population in the upland regions, of
great nutritional value and offering considerable commercial prospects.
MANGOES               A tropical fruit with good export possibilities.
PEANUTS               An oil seed with good commercial performance and highly esteened by the imabitants of the coastal
regions.
BABACO                A subtropical fruit with good export potential.
PEACHES               Quality improvement could have the effect of reducing imports of this fruit and appreciably
increasing the returns obtainable from it in certain upland provinces.
LEMONS                This crops susceptibility to pests and diseases warrants continued assistance.



70
ANNEX 7
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Supervision
Key Performance Indicators for Project Monitoring
Table la:          Indicators for the Competitive Research Grants sub-component showing
linkages to strategy objectives, targets, the method of collection and how often it
will be collected
Projed         Strategy           Process Indicators         Tgt       Method   How Oftle
Components   Objectives
Competitive    lmaa               Nos. of promotions         8         Progres   Every 6
research       Competition        No. of workshops                     Report    nths
grant                             Tot nos applicants         40                   Biannual
Total no. approved        25
No. grant applicatzons by           Progrea    Biaimul
INLAP                     10        Report
Universities              20
Joint projeds             6
Private sector (greniios)  4
linked to priorities  No. of projects financed
by:
subject
(see Table 2)
Private and public   Nos. of grants awarded to:        Site       Biannual
Inteation          univermities              12        visis
INLAP                     7         Progrss
joint projects            4         Report
private sector            2
Amount of resources (%/*)           Progres    Bianul
captured from:                      Report
univerities               24
INIAP                     14
private sector            12
GOE                      50
Client oriented    Nos. of projects involving          Progress   Biannual
fanmer participation      10        Report
on farm research          10
nos. of project fnanced in
area of small fanner agric.   15
*        Not pre-specified



71
Table lb:          Indicators for Research and Education Exchange Partnerships sub-component
Project        Strtegy            Process Indicators        Tgt       Method   HOw ofen
Components   ObJectives                                                     _
Research and   Increased          Nos. promotions           2         Progre    every 6
education      Competition        Nos. workshops                      Report    muths
exchange
parterhlps                        Nos. MSc prog application   5       Prog       Twice
Nos. MSc prog approved    2         Repo"t
Nos. PhD application      10        Progres    Aml (for
Nos. PhD approved         4        Report    3 yr.)
Priority linked    MSc prop by discipline             Progre    Twice
genetics                  1        Report
inigation                 1
Nos. of PhDs                       Progres    Amnual (for
by discipline             TA4       Report    3 years)
Strengthen         Nos. local staff hired             Progres    Anuual
Intitutional       by discipline                      Report
Capacity           genetics                  12mm
irrigation                12mnm
Nos. support staff                  Progres    Amiusl
by discipline                      Report
genetics                 36nmm
irrigation               36mm
Nos. foreign  aff                  Prog       Twice (firt
by discipline                      Report    2 yn)
genetics                 2
irrigation               2
Strengthen        Not. Partnrship           2         Progres    Twce (first
Institutional                                         Rqet    2 yecs)
Capacity
Resouroes in (%/.)                 Progress   Annual
contributed by:                    Repot
national outrpat          85
inteational counterpart    15
Nos. graduate courses     2         Progres    Twice (first
established                         Report    2 yr.)
Nos. graduate degrees              Progres    Ams
awarded by***:                     Rewrt
intemnaional Institution  4
National Institution      30
PhD disciplines have not yet been selected.



72
Table lc:           Indicators for Strenatbeninp INLAP sub-cor Donent
Project            Strategy            Process Indicators         Tgt    Method        How Often
Comnonenta         Objectives
Strengthening      Strengthen          Developnment Plan          1       Progress     I t year
INLAP              Intitutional                                           Report
a. Training for    Capacity            Nos. of MSc                6
sdvanced degrees                       Nos of PhDs                4       Progres
Nos. Short tenm course    5       Report        Annual
Nos. fellowships awarded    11
Priority Linked    Nos MSc by disciplines:
Cocoa                      I      Progres       Anmal
Agric Econ                 1      Report
Maize, Leg, Ent.           I
TOT, Prod systems          1
Barnan/Plantain/Ag         I
Agro forestayI
Nos. PhDs by discipline:
Rice                      I       Progress      Annual
Potato                    I       Report
Coffee/cocoa/ent           I
Coffee/coa/phyto          1
Nos. thesis completed in          Progress      Annual5
Ecuador                           Report
MSc                       2
PhD                       4
Nos. shot term by                 Progres       Anmul
discipline                        Report
Tech Prod Ban-Plntain      1
lnatitufional Developmnct    1
Rice
IPM                        I
Farm level irrigation      I
K Regin  and       inreae              Not. of MSc applications   24
local long term    Competition         Noc MSc approved           12
consultants
Noc of PhD applications    20     Progress      Once
Not of PhD approved       10      Report        Once
Priority linked    Nos MSc by discipline:             Progress     Once
Agroforestry               I      Report
Agric Econ/Planning       2
Water management          1
Aniral Production         1
Biotechnology             1
Legums 
Nutrition and quality      I
Oil SeedsI
hIfonnation system         1
Biometrics
Pastures                  I
Not PhD by  eas.                  Progrea       Once
Banana/Plantain           I       Report
Aninma Production          I
Agroforestry              1
cocoa                      I
Agric Econ/Planning       I
1PM                       1
VirologyI
Potato                    1
Hard maize                I
Rice
Strengthen         Nos. of applications       15      Progress     Annual
c. Internadtonal    Institutional      Nots approved              5       Report
short term         Capacity            Nos. by discipline:
sentists                               Animal Production          I
Banana/Plantain           1
Research Admin            1
Natural resources          1
Production systems         1
* The numbers of thesis completed will only start from the second year for the MScs and from the third year for
the PhDs; after these years information will be collected on an annual basis.



73
Table 2:      Number of research proposals by commodity and
discipline expected to be approved in the first year.
DISCIPLINES
COMMODITY    IPM          Soil,    Nutrition   Biotech   Agro-  Total
Water,     and               forestry
Irrigation   quality
Meat                                  1                          1
Soft maize         1                                             1
Milk                                  1                  1       2
Potatoes           1            _               1                2
Rice               1        1                                    2
Cocoa              1              .                     1       2
Coffee             1        1                            1       3
Banana/Plantain    1        1 1                 1                3
HardMaize          2        1     _                              3
Fruit              1        1                   1   j            3
Pastures                    1                            2       3
Total   9        6          2        3         5      25



74
ANNEX 8
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Supervision
Key Performance Indicators.for Project Impact Evaluation
Strategy Objectives    Impact Indicators         Method of data collection  Frequency of collection
Strengthen Institutional   Priority setting      Survey (INIAP)           At start
Capacity                mechanisms established                            Mid term
and functioning                                   End
Numbers of               Literature Review        Every 3 years
Technical/scientific
publications                _
Strengthen Participation   Ratio of public/private  Secondary Data        At start
of Private Sector       expenditure on research                           Mid term
End
Increase Competition    Active flow of research  From process indicators    Mid term
applications                                      End
Every 3 vears
Conduct Client Oriented   Resource allocation vis-a-  Case studies, participatory   At start
Research                vis established priorities    methods             Mid term
End
Research transferred to  Case studies, participatory   At start
farmers fields           methods                  Mid term
End
Rate of adoption by      Case studies, participatory   At start
farmers                  methods                  Mid term
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _E nd
Improved Interaction    Mechanism established    Survey, case studies,    At start
for ongoing interaction  participatory methods    Mid term
End



75
ANNEX 9
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Audit Requirements
Draft Summary Terms of Reference
A. Project Expenditures
1.          Annually, MAG would hire an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank
to undertake an audit of the Project Accounts, Statements of Expenditures, the Special
Account and Internal Control
2.          MAG-PIU would submit to the auditor the following information by
April 30, of each year starting in 1997.
(a)   consolidated project accounts for the previous year showing total project
costs by component and the source and application of funds along with
supporting documentation as required by the auditors;
(b)   a report on its internal control (both financial and physical) for the project;
(c)   a report on corrective actions taken in response to the opinions and
recommendations made by the auditor in the audit report from the previous
year;
(d)   Bank statements for the Special Account showing source and application
of funds; and
(e)   copies of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for the previous year and all
documentation supporting these SOEs.
3.          Project Accounts. The auditor will prepare audited financial statements of
total project costs which cover all investment costs of the project which would include
costs incurred by MAG and the Participating Entities. These statements would also show
source of funds. The auditor will audit to a level necessary to do the following:



76
(a)   state an opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements fairly
reflect the total financial expenditures of the project;
(b)   comment on the adequacy of the accounting system used for consolidating
project accounts; and
(c)   state that civil works and equipment financed by the project exists and were
used for project purposes.
4.          Statements of Expenditures. The auditor will audit all of the Statements
of Expenditure used through the year for withdrawals from the Special Account to ensure
that:
(a)   all expenditures were made by MAG on legitimate project components,
through approved and signed contracts or direct procurement; and
(b)   payments were actually made an canceled checks are available.
5.          Special Account. The auditor will audit the Bank accounts for the Special
Account to ensure that:
(a)   all funds withdrawn from the World Bank loan were dully deposited in the
Special Account;
(b)   all funds withdrawn from the Special Account have supporting SOEs; and
(c)   the Special Account Balance agrees with the reconciliation of the Special
Account shown on the World Bank loan statements.
6.          Internal Control. The auditor will review the system of internal control,
both financial and physical and review the following:
(a)   adequate internal controls are being employed on financial and physical
activities of the project; and
(b)   corrective measures have been taken by MAG in response to observations
made in previous years.
7.          General. The auditor should also report on compliance by MAG on its
obligations under the loan agreement relating to the total costs of the project and the
World Bank loan account.
8.          MAG should forward to the Bank the audit report(s) for the consolidated
project accounts, SOEs and the Special Account, for the previous fiscal year, no later than
six months after the end of that fiscal year.



77
9.           The auditor should also review the annual budget at MAG for project
activities vis-a-vis the actual funds available and the actual funds utilized.
10.         The auditor should report on the adequacy of the budget allocation vis-a-
vis project requirements.



{n~   ~f- -iS.         w ..''E'''E'='                           -        -       -,tst
I> ~       I- 
i~~~~I                        El1
0  i       C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
c       ...  .. ...  ...  ................
m   ~              -e
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
9'"p"IlS uowum uamajdwj $O3O4J
IOJrOUa HJUY3S3M 2UIIrnfLIUIOV
xoavnos
01 XINNV
8L



Ecuador - Agricultural Research Project
1996             1997              1998              1999             2000              2001
ID   Task Name                                       Duration Qtr 1|tr Qtr 10tr 4QtrlQtr2lQtr3Qtr 4Qtr Qtr2Qtr3tr4Qtr Qtr Qtr3[Qtr 4Qtr  tr 2Qtr3tr  tr  tr  tr
32               Year 3                                   44d
33           Undertake Training                         1304d .                                                            /
34       National Researchers - Contracted              1370d
36           Prepare TOR                                  22d
36           Select Consuttants                           44d
37           Implement Component                        1304d                                /          ,                                                     /
38       Interrantional Researchers - Contracted        1370d
39           Prepare TOR                                  22d
40           Select Consultants            .        .d
41           lmplementComponent                          1304d                             /             /    /                 /                                 /
42   Implementation Unit                                1457d
43       Project knplementation                         1392d
44           Prepare Annual Budget and Work Plan         849d
4S               Year I                                   22d
46                Year 2                                  22d
47               Year 3                                   22d
48               Year 4                                   22d
49               Year 5                                   22d
SO           Technical Assistance                       1392d
61               Developmert Plan for INWAP              306d
52                    Prepare TOR                         22d
U3                    Select Consubnts                    22d
Task                                  Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project. AgncultLurd Research Proect  Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Date: 2/29/96
Miestone                              Rolled Up Milestone 3
Page 2



I                                      U~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
E.                                  C
I  ................................... .........  .. ................... ...... =.. ..................  ......  E=... .... ...................................................... ....................  3 =7  
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 10] -ES           *C                  g          
0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _E                                                         -u Nw
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ........          .   .....  ..   .   . .....  
08
CDco~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
08



Ecuador - Agricultural Research Project
1996              1997              1998              1999              2000              2001
ID   Task Name                                        Duration  tr 1 tr 2Otr 3Otr 4|Qtr 1 O0tr 2Qtr 3OQtr 4|Qtr 1 ptr 210tr 3|Qtr 4[Qtr 1 |Qtr 21Qtr 3 Qtr 4|Qtr 1 lQtr 2Qtr 3tr 4Qtr 1 tr  tr
76               Implement Component                     1 304d
77       Management Contract                             1218d
78           Prepare TOR                                   22d
79           Invite Proposals                              22d
s0           Select Consultants                            44d
S1           Implement Component                         1 130d            .y~~>    ~7   /4/$ W t%                      &t%Q')//ty/
Task                                   Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project: Agricultural Research Project 
Date: 2/29/96                        Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone  >
Page 4



82
ANNEX 11
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Supervision
Bank Staff Inputs for Project Supervision
Approximate                  Activity                Anticipated               Input in Staff
Date                                                Skills                 Field Time
Requirements                  (Weeks)
September 1996            Project Launch Workshop   Task Manager                          1
focusing on project concept  Research Funding
and implementation,       Specialist                            I
procurement and
disbursement procedures
(retro-active financing,
special account
arrangements). Review
workplan and budget for
1997
February 1997             Mission after effectiveness  Task Manager
to review staffing, training,  Financial Analyst                1
promotion programi
September 1997            Supervision Mission to    Task Manager                          2
review the results of first    Research Specialist              I
year subprojects, M&E     M&E Specialist                        1
systemn, and work plan for
1998
February 1998             Supervision Mission to    Task Manager                          2
review institutional issues,  Institutional Specialist
including Peer Review     Financial Analyst
Panel, flow of funds,
project and financial
reporting and OM.
September 1998            Supervision Mission to    Task Manager                          I
review all aspects of     Research Specialist                   1
project implementation
and the work plan for 1999
February 1999             Supervision Mission to    Task Manager                          3
start the mid-term review    Institutional Specialist           2
covering The Executive    Financial Analyst                     2
Council, the PIU and      Research Specialist                   2
Management of
Competitive Grants
including the response of
Universities and private
sector.



83
ANNEX 12
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Documents on Project File
Preparation and Appraisal Documents
1.          The INLAP Component - Preparation Report - Barry Nestel.
2.          Programa de Investigaci6n de la Universidadesy del Sector Privado -
Fundaci6n IDEA.
3.          Componente Investigaci6n - Fundaci6n IDEA.
4.          Generaci6n de Tecnologia - INIAP - Fundaci6n IDEA.
5.          Cambio Institucional del INIAP - INIAP.
6.          Proyecto de Modernizaci6n de los Servicios Agropecuarios Documento
Principal - Fundaci6n IDEA.
7.          Componente de Evaluaci6n Economica del Proyecto - Fundaci6n IDEA.
8.          Environmental Appraisal - Fundacion IDEA.
9.          Componente de Economia - Fundacion IDEA.
10.         Competitive Research Grants Component - R. Uffen.
11.         Research Component Annex - M. Whitaker.
12.         Componente de Evaluaci6n Econ6mica del Proyecto - Fundaci6n IDEA
13.         Monitoring and Evaluation for the Ecuador Agricultural Research Project
Prepared by Fiona Samuels, ITAD Ltd.



84
Other Documents
14.         Public and Private Sector Interactions in Agricultural Research in Less-
Developed Countries: the Case of Ecuador. Cesar Falconi ISNAR
15.         El Rol de la Agricultura en el Desarrollo Economico del Ecuador: Ed.
Morris D. Whitaker.
16.         Politicas y Estrategias del Instituto Nacional A ut6nomo de
Investigaciones Agropecuarias - IMAP 1993.
17.         Una Metodologia para la Determinaci6n de Prioridades de Investigaci6n
Agropecuaria por Rubros y Areas de Trabajo (El Caso Ecuatoriano) Patricio Espinosa,
George Norton and H. Douglas Gross.
18.         Determinaci6n de Prioridades de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria en Ecuador.
Julio Palomino C. and George W. Norton.
19.         La Calidad de la Investigaci6n en el INIAP Informe de Consultoria
Presentado a la Agencia Alemana GTZ. Francisco Muinoz.
20.         Resumen del Proceso de Modernizaci6n del INIAP - 1993.
21.         Grant Proposal Guide (NSF 94-2) National Science Foundation.
January 1994.
22.         Application Kit. United States Development of Agriculture (USDA)
September 1992.



81                      ao^                      79^   ,                    78                       77~                       76
Son tlor.r,o Q\
ESMERALDAS -                      ,    )                                        C      LOM           A
t           a    -- <                   q  1'! .      '>                           ~~~~~~~~~C  O  L O  M  B I A
P,\  C C     - I                         ESMERALDAS   -ARCH
. ) (  I  dX  N   . r p Rblo Z6rak  >-  ^<A -  z, j~TASIJP l*.-BABI_/' Aon   ._ ,  r
~.R8~oT6.oI.                             ISd.RI., C.4 ,
NGO             A        oo TAk     o ~n~
I,'-..                                                              .---.CAA LI_
|  /p  .e  I...... ,'l\ rnrnTAIJIA              I          .         .............. 2   r oF d,ondo                ' 5
Bohlo d. Co.,q.,                                                               1                //*o
Mon;ll<t    G A RIIA  ; t  F  r     {;NAPO-PAYAMINOC
PRORT,oJOg  J           ~     ~      SCFJE ICm    /UA BT -                             -._  -       ..
KTOVIE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'~' fV  (iE  F  /,NUACO                            OXo-T4         ,                                                  Y
PO.K
=                b~~~~~ABAf1Sef     ) s  
EL ROSARIO                                                PA
s~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S no     CUI            ....................    MACAS
',0P  j            N,BOI. l                                   C .  \  . ,  -  '
' (t   , '.-+,Gyi S-    )  r               j                   _                     I~~~~~~~~~~~ i 
P-q.                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~76
TTEN
- 3        ( 1/ 1 1 ;. I        I       Tg         s ;_ 1 l j; U_2   ?  q U I plozq     /    /                                       ECUADOR
'l' V ''/ ''    MACHA8;.f) %  -J fJ         ,2         /                                    AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
(oI       o       78'                      77'                   PROJECT
A    EXPERIMENTAL STATIONS (INIAP)
X.GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
,ZAMO                        ARCHIPIELAGO DE COLON|                    EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (INIAPF
CHiNtCHTh                                                    - O---- - PAVED ROADS
-Clfl.   r_,    J  '/55crOTHER ALL WEATHER ROADS
*                                                                                        -c  t so--- iA)MORAO // eslA C--rsoxrss | RAILROADS
/                                                                         4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORTS
)   I t l I A  ;    )             1 .\, ' I I S    ';   ; I i      o 0-        +      POR.TS
P E R U                                                                    ISLA SAN SAiVAPDO                              RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
.SMA SANTA CRUZ                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0    25   50   75   GG5FER INA5
IS~A SAN
KILOMETERS                                               ISIA                         CR SSTO,A L
5                      5                                               ISABELA
., ,, / ,,, ,,,o,r ,,A  ......U1   'R. SAS4 0"            .......'.1 n.',L    Al_
.  *..  .... ....  ..15
_I _X -                                                        I _









IMAGING
Report No:      14702- EC
Type: SAP



