Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4075-EC
                              Loan Agreement
                     (Agricultural Research Project)
                                 between
                           REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated March 18, 1997
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4075-EC
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
Page  2
     (a)  "Annual Work Plan" means any of the plans referred to in
Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Executive Council" means the council established by the
Ministerial Resolution (as defined below);
     (c)  "Fellowship" means any fellowship to be awarded for advanced
degree training (Ph.D and Master's degrees) or for priority short-term
training, covering the costs of tuition, living expenses and travel,
all in accordance with the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
     (d)  "INIAP" means Instituto Nacional Autnomo de Investigaciones
Agropecuarias, the Borrower's National Institute of Agriculture and
Livestock Research;
     (e)  "INIAP Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between MAG (as hereinafter defined) and INIAP pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to such agreement;
     (f)  "MAG" means Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadera, the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
     (g)  "Ministerial Resolution" means the resolution published in
the Registro Oficial, the Borrower's official gazette, Number 874 on
January 31, 1996;
     (h)  "Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in
the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith to
monitor the progress of the project;
     (i)  "NGO" means any non-governmental organization operating in
the territory of the Borrower;
     (j)  "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be adopted by MAG to plan, identify, prepare, select,
evaluate, finance and supervise Research Subprojects (as hereinafter
defined) and Research and Education Exchange Partnerships (as
hereinafter defined) and other activities included in the Project,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank;
     (k)   "Participating Entity" means:
           (i)  INIAP; or
          (ii)  a university, an NGO or a private or public research
                entity, provided that they operate in the territory
                of the Borrower, to which the Borrower proposes to
                make or has made a Research Subgrant or a Research
                and Education Exchange Subgrant (as hereinafter
                defined), all in accordance with the Operational
                Manual;
     (l)  "PIU" means the Project implementation unit established by
the Ministerial Resolution;
     (m)  "Principal Consulting Firm" means the consulting firm
selected in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section II
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the purposes of assuming the
responsibilities set forth in Section (b) of this Agreement;
     (n)  "Priority Research Areas" means the research areas listed
in MAG's memorandum number 156 dated February 8, 1995;
     (o)  "Research and Education Exchange Partnership" means any
specific research or education exchange partnership between a
Participating Entity and an international scientific institution,
to be implemented utilizing the proceeds of a Research and Education
Exchange Subgrant (as hereinafter defined), such partnership to
include joint research programs, short-term technical assistance and
Page  3
personnel exchanges;
     (p)  "Research and Education Exchange Subgrant" means a grant
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan to a Participating Entity for a Research and Education
Exchange Partnership;
     (q)  "Research Subgrant" means the financing made or proposed
to be made, on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Participating Entity
for a Research Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
     (r)  "Research Subproject" means a specific research project to
be carried out by a Participating Entity utilizing the proceeds of a
Research Subgrant;
     (s)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (t)  "Subgrant" means any Research Subgrant or Research and
Education Exchange Subgrant; and
     (u)  "Subproject" means any Research Subproject or Research and
Education Exchange Partnership.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banco Central del
Ecuador or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment if the account is opened in a
commercial bank.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
Page  4
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in dollars for value the first day of
               such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
               Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
               occurring on or next preceding the first day of such
               Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
               (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
               by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months'
notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable April
15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project,
               through MAG, with due diligence and efficiency and
               in conformity with appropriate technical, admini-
               strative, financial, agricultural and environmental
               practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
               the funds, facilities, services and other resources
               required for the Project; and
         (ii)  shall cause INIAP, pursuant to the INIAP Agreement,
               to carry out Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project,
               with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
               with appropriate technical, administrative, financial,
               agricultural and environmental practices; shall take
               or cause to be taken all action, including the pro-
               vision of funds, facilities, services and other
               resources, necessary or appropriate to enable INIAP
               to carry out such Parts of the Project; and shall
               not take or permit to be taken any action which
Page  5
               would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of
               such Part of the Project by INIAP.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, through MAG, enter into an agreement
with INIAP under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, inter alia, the following terms and conditions: (i)
INIAP's responsibilities for the implementation of Parts B.2, B.3
and B.4 of the Project; (ii) the Borrower's responsibility, through
the PIU, to handle selected procurement and disbursement matters;
(iii) INIAP's obligation to take all actions necessary or appropriate
to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; (iv) INIAP's obligation to comply with the requirements
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, respectively)
in respect of Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project; and (v) INIAP's
obligation to carry out the development plan referred to in para-
graph 3 (c) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its
obligations under the INIAP Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
INIAP Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (d)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project (or cause the Project to be carried out) in accordance with
the Annual Work Plans and the Operational Manual.
     (e)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) hereof the Borrower shall:
          (i)  not later than October 31 of each year during the
               execution of the Project, prepare and furnish to
               the Bank, for its review and approval, a budget
               proposal with regard to the counterpart funds
               required for Project implementation, in accordance
               with the Annual Work Plan for the respective year;
               and
         (ii)  upon the Bank's approval of the corresponding
               proposal, allocate in each of its annual budgets,
               and make available promptly as needed, the
               respective counterpart funds.
     (f)  Without limitation or restriction to other provision of
this Section, the Borrower shall deposit in the PIU's account the
amount of the counterpart funds required to cover the PIU's
monthly operating expenditures, within the first ten days of each
such quarter.
     Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
INIAP Agreement in such a manner as to:
     (a)  protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
     (b)  comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
     (c)  achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank
Page  6
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued achieve-
ment of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.05.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance,
respectively) in respect of Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project
shall be carried out by INIAP, pursuant to the INIAP Agreement.
     Section 3.06. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the
Executive Council and the PIU, with composition, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
     (b)  Not later than ninety days after the date of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall employ a consulting firm for the purposes of
managing the technical aspects of Parts A and B.1 of the Project,
through the establishment and operation of:
          (i)  a peer review panel (comprising an environmental
               specialist) contracted by said consulting firm, of
               composition, functions and responsibilities accept-
               able by the Bank, including the review and approval
               of Research Subprojects, Research and Education
               Exchange Partnerships and Fellowships, all as pro-
               vided in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the
               Operational Manual; and
         (ii)  a management unit within said consulting firm,
               responsible for:
               (A)  coordinating the implementation of Parts A and
                    B.1 of the Project; and
               (B)  reviewing, selecting and administering Subprojects,
                    Fellowships and training to be financed out of the
                    proceeds of the Loan.
     (c)  The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is, at all times
until completion of the Project, staffed by professionals, with
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satis-
factory to the Bank, assisted by qualified personnel in adequate
numbers.
     (d)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (c) above, the Borrower shall retain, within the
PIU, until completion of the Project:
          (i)  a director, responsible for the overall administra-
               tion of the Project;
         (ii)  a finance and administration manager, responsible for
               all matters related to budget preparation, accounting,
               auditing and withdrawals;
        (iii)  a procurement specialist, responsible for ensuring
               compliance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
               Agreement; and
         (iv)  a monitoring and evaluation manager, responsible for
               overall monitoring and evaluation of Project imple-
               mentation.
     (e)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (b) above, the Borrower shall ensure that the Principal
Consulting Firm will retain, until completion of the Project a
Page  7
director, responsible for the overall administration and coordina-
tion of Parts A and B.1 of the Project, under the supervision of
the PIU director referred to in subparagraph (d) (i) above.
     Section 3.07.  With regard to the services of the consultants
to be employed under the Project in accordance with the respective
Annual Work Plan, the Borrower shall, and shall ensure that INIAP:
     (a)  promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to
the Bank a copy of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such findings and recommendations; and
     (c)  review and implement, as the case may be, the recommenda-
tions of such consultants, taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon.
     Section 3.08. (a)  Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, not later than
February 28 and August 31, of each year, during the execution of the
Project, starting on August 31, 1997, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its review and comments, a report on the progress
achieved in the execution of the Project, with regard to the
immediately preceding semesters, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank may reasonably request.
     (b)  Not later than June 30 of each year of Project execution,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review
and approval, an annual work plan for the implementation of the
Project by the Borrower and INIAP during the upcoming calendar year,
such plan to comprise:
          (i)  the main activities to be carried out under the
               Project during the respective year;
         (ii)  the objectives, expected results or outputs of such
               activities;
        (iii)  the corresponding cost estimates and budgets,
               including counterpart funds;
         (iv)  the relevant institutional arrangements and
               responsibilities; and
          (v)  the timetables for implementation, all in accordance
               with the Operational Manual.
     (c)  Upon the Bank's approval, the Borrower shall and shall
ensure that INIAP carry out such Annual Work Plans in accordance
with their terms.
     Section 3.09.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  employ under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
on or about twenty-four months after the Effective Date, consultants
to prepare a report integrating the result of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date;
     (c)  review with the Bank, on or about thirty months after the
Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter,
Page  8
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's
views on the matter; and
     (d)  employ consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, by no later than June 30, 2000, to assess the Project's
success up to that date and opine as to whether or not a follow-up
operation would be justified.
     Section 3.10. (a)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Subgrants will be made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and in the Operational Manual.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Subproject in such a manner as to:
          (i)  protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
         (ii)  comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
        (iii)  achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 3.11.  Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Article IV of this Agreement, not later than six months
after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall hire and thereafter
retain, until the completion of the Project, independent private
auditors, acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of conducting
biannual technical analysis of the procurement activities carried
out under the Project.
     Section 3.12.  With regard to Part C of the Project, and without
limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 3.08 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower:
     (a)  not later than three months after the Effective Date, shall
hire the consultants required to implement, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, the Project monitoring and evaluation
system; and
     (b)  not later than six months after the Effective Date, shall
furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a report on the
implementation of the aforesaid system.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out such Parts of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent private auditors acceptable
               to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
Page  9
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a)  The Borrower shall cause INIAP to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of INIAP.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause INIAP to:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) and the records and accounts
               for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent private auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               such records, accounts and financial statements and
               the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account for Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause
INIAP to:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
Page  10
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
               and internal controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                             Other Covenants
     Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall cause INIAP, pursuant to the
INIAP Agreement:
     (a)  to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice;
     (b)  to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound technical, administrative, financial, agri-
cultural and environmental practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers; and
     (c)  at all times to operate and to maintain its equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound technical, administrative, financial, agricultural and
environmental practices.
                                ARTICLE VI
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Ministerial Resolution or the Operational Manual or
any provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank,
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or INIAP to
perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings set forth or
referred to in this Agreement or the INIAP Agreement, as the case may be;
     (b)  INIAP shall have failed to perform any of its respective
obligations or undertakings under the INIAP Agreement;
     (c)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date of
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Borrower or INIAP will be able to
perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings under
the INIAP Agreement; and
     (d)  the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of INIAP
or for the suspension of its operations so as to affect, in the opinion
of the Bank, materially and adversely, the ability of the Borrower or
INIAP to perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings
under this Agreement and the INIAP Agreement, as the case may be.
     Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  11
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Director of the PIU has been appointed and that the
PIU shall have been staffed, all with professionals of experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, in numbers satisfactory to the
Bank;
     (b)  that the Principal Consulting Firm, acceptable to the Bank,
shall have been selected and that a letter of intent shall have been
signed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (c)  that the Operational Manual shall have been adopted by MAG.
     Section 7.02.  The date June 16, 1997 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01.  The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Pblico
          Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
          Quito, Ecuador
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MINFINANZAS              22358 MINFIN-ED
               Quito, Ecuador
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI), or
               Washington,  D.C.         64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  12
                    REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                    By /s/ Fernando Flores Macas
                                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                        Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the              % of
                            Loan Allocated           Expenditures
                            (Expressed in               to be
     Category                  Dollars)                Financed
(1)  (a)  Subgrants under     10,600,000             100% of the amounts
          Part A of the                              disbursed under a
          Project                                    Subgrant
     (b)  Fellowships under   2,000,000              100%
          Part B.1 of the
          Project
(2)  Civil Works                600,000              100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures
(3)  Goods under Part B.3 of    400,000              100% of foreign
     the Project                                     expenditures and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures
(4)  Consultants' Services and                       100% of foreign
     Training                                        expenditures and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures
     (a)  under Part B.2 of  2,800,000
          the Project
     (b)  under part B.4 of    100,000
          the Project
     (c)  other              2,100,000
(5)  Incremental Operating     500,000               85% until with-
     Costs                                           drawals under
                                                     this Category
                                                     have reached an
                                                     aggregate amount
                                                     equivalent to
                                                     $225,000; 70%
                                                     until withdrawals
                                                     under this
Page  13
                                                     Category have
                                                     reached an aggre-
                                                     gate amount equi-
                                                     valent to $360,000;
                                                     and 50% thereafter
(6)  Unallocated             1,900,000
                            __________
     TOTAL                  21,000,000
                            ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures
for the operation and maintenance of the PIU including: (i) fees to
be paid to the consultants to fill the positions referred to in
Section 3.06 (d) of this Agreement; (ii) office supplies; (iii)
services rendered by public utilities; (iv) operation and maintenance
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (v) domestic
and international travel and per diems of the PIU's personnel,
required for the execution of the Project; and
     (d)  the term "Training" means: (i) remuneration of trainers;
(ii) domestic travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; and
(iii) training materials, all pursuant to Part C of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through
(5) in the table set forth in said paragraph on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after May 31, 1995;
     (b)  in respect of a Subgrant, unless the Subgrant has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  Categories (1) (b), (2), (3) and (4) (a) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until: (i) the INIAP Agreement
has been entered into between the parties thereto; and (ii) the Bank
shall have been furnished, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, with the development plan referred to in Part B.4 of the
Project.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
     (a)  for goods, works and consultants' services under contracts
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and
     (b)  all Incremental Operating Costs, Subgrants and Fellowships,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's
Page  14
capacity for conducting agricultural research, so as to increase
agricultural productivity and output in the Borrower's territory
while preserving or enhancing its natural resource base.
     The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the moderni-
zation of its agricultural and livestock services and consists of
the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:   Competitive Subgrants
1.   Carrying out of Research Subprojects under Research Subgrants.
2.   Carrying out of Research and Education Exchange Partnerships
under Research and Education Exchange Subgrants.
Part B:   Strengthening of INIAP
1.   Provision of Fellowships to selected INIAP staff.
2.   Provision of technical assistance to INIAP by Ecuadoran and
foreign scientists in Priority Research Areas.
3.   Rehabilitation and modernization of INIAP's research stations.
4.   Completion of a development plan for the long-term sustainability
of INIAP, such plan to include provisions regarding personnel policy,
research priorities, asset restructuring, financial planning and the
role and management of an endowment fund for INIAP.
Part C:   Project Coordination
     Provision of technical assistance for the implementation of a
Project supervision, monitoring and evaluation system including,
inter alia:
1.   promotion and training of potential Participating Entities in
preparation of proposals for Subprojects; and
2.   support for the overall execution of the Project.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (Expressed in dollars)*
     October 15, 2003                     495,000
     April 15, 2004                       510,000
     October 15, 2004                     525,000
     April 15, 2005                       540,000
     October 15, 2005                     555,000
     April 15, 2006                       570,000
     October 15, 2006                     590,000
     April 15, 2007                       605,000
     October 15, 2007                     625,000
     April 15, 2008                       640,000
     October 15, 2008                     660,000
     April 15, 2009                       680,000
     October 15, 2009                     700,000
     April 15, 2010                       720,000
     October 15, 2010                     740,000
     April 15, 2011                       760,000
     October 15, 2011                     785,000
     April 15, 2012                       810,000     October 15, 2012                     
830,000
Page  15
     April 15, 2013                       855,000
     October 15, 2013                     880,000
     April 15, 2014                       905,000
     October 15, 2014                     935,000
     April 15, 2015                       960,000
     October 15, 2015                     990,000
     April 15, 2016                     1,020,000
     October 15, 2016                   1,050,000
     April 15, 2017                     1,065,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for  Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as appli-
cable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
(other than vehicles and laboratory equipment) and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Vehicles and laboratory equipment and other goods which the Bank
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers,
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the
Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000 per
contract and $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the procurement of
works in accordance with this Part C.2, the Borrower shall use
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Shopping
     Goods (including vehicles and laboratory equipment) estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract; and (i) $13,500,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate for goods financed under Sub-
projects; and (ii) $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate for
other goods, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of para-
graphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract,
and not to exceed $250,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under
lumpsum, fixed priced contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
Page  16
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed descrip-
tion of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully com-
plete the contract.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $50,000, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
or individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or
less each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; or (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms or individual
consultants raising the contract value to more than $50,000.
Section III.   Special Provisions
A.   In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other
     provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the
     following provisions shall govern all procurement of goods
     referred to in Parts B and C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.   Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alter-
native proposals, if they have been requested or permitted, shall be
read aloud when opened.
2.   Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local represen-
Page  17
tative for purposes of submitting bids.
3.   Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring
party without recertification by any Ecuadoran bank or other
Ecuadoran person or entity.
4.   Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by the procuring party shall be admissible without
recertification or other participation by any Ecuadoran bank or other
Ecuadoran person or entity.
5.   Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider of
services shall not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent the
procuring party from obtaining other performance warranties from such
suppliers or providers.
B.   In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other
     provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the
     following provisions shall govern all procurement of goods
     referred to in Part C.2 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.   Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all
contracts.
2.   The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which
shall be at least thirty days from the date of the last advertisement
of the invitation to bid.
3.   The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three days
in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
4.   Contracts must be awarded to the bidder whose bid was evaluated
as the lowest and responsive, in accordance with criteria set forth
in the bidding documents.
C.   In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other
     provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guide-
     lines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of
     consultants referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.   Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection
process.
2.   Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person, except in connection with a
joint venture arrangement where:
          (i)  a sufficient number of capable domestic firms or
               individual consultants exist to allow a foreign
               consultant reasonable freedom of choice;
         (ii)  the contribution of either party to the joint venture
               arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed
               manner or extent of participation; and
        (iii)  the foreign consultant is not required to associate
               itself with any specific named domestic firms or
               individual consultants.
3.   Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition
to provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum
capital different from that required for Ecuadoran firms.
4.   Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be
required to pay fees to the Ecuadoran Consultants' Association that
are different from those required for Ecuadoran consultants.
5.   No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his
Page  18
or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service
office or any other position in an agency of the Borrower or any
Ecuadoran public sector entity, nor shall such consultant have
any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the
conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Section IV.    Internal Approvals
1.   With respect to the procurement of goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding
documents and contracts required under the laws of the Borrower
shall be given only by the PIU.
2.   With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of
contracts or of consultant selection processes required under the
laws of the Borrower, shall be given only by the PIU.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to
$600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commit-
ments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $4,400,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis
               of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
               the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and
Page  19
               deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
               Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
               Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
Page  20
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 6
                Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of
                         Subgrants and Fellowships
Section I:     Subgrants
1.   Each Subgrant for any Research Subproject shall be:
     (a)  in an amount in dollars equivalent not exceeding $100,000;
and
     (b)  disbursed in a maximum period of three (3) years.
2.   Each Subgrant for any Research and Education Exchange Partnership
shall be:
     (a)  in an amount in dollars equivalent not exceeding $500,000;
and
     (b)  disbursed in a maximum period of five (5) years.
3.   Subgrants shall finance up to a maximum of:
     (a)  seventy-five per cent (75%) of the cost of a Subproject
until the aggregate cost of Subprojects financed by Subgrants shall
have reached the equivalent of $4,500,000;
     (b)  sixty-five percent (65%) of the cost of a Subproject until
the aggregate cost of Subprojects financed by Subgrants shall have
reached the equivalent of $9,000,000; and
     (c)  fifty-five percent (55%) of the cost of a Subproject,
thereafter.
4.   The Borrower shall maintain in respect of each Subgrant, in form
satisfactory to the Bank:
     (a)  a description of the Participating Entity, including an
assessment of its compliance with local and national environmental
laws and regulations;
     (b)  an appraisal of the Subproject, such appraisal to include:
          (i)  a discrimination of the costs of the Subproject;
         (ii)  a description of the Subproject components and expected
               results;
     (c)  the proposed terms and conditions of the Subgrant; and
     (d)  such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower, through
MAG, shall obtain by a written contract, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the rights to:
     (a)  require the Participating Entity to carry out the Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, administrative, financial, agricultural and
environmental standards and to maintain adequate records;
Page  21
     (b)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank, if the Borrower or the Bank shall so request, the progress in
the implementation of the Subproject, and any relevant records and
documents;
     (c)  obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Participating Entity and
to the benefits derived from the Subproject; and
     (d)  suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Entity
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by the Parti-
cipating Entity to perform its obligations under its agreement with
the Borrower.
6.   If the Borrower shall have determined at any time that any
payment made under a Subgrant was used by the Participating Entity
in any manner contrary to the provisions of the Subgrant Agreement,
the Participating Entity shall, promptly upon notice from the
Borrower, refund to the Borrower an amount equal to the amount so
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Borrower.
Section II:    Fellowships
     Fellowships shall be granted on terms whereby the Borrower,
through MAG, shall obtain by a written contract, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, all as
provided in the Operational Manual.
