                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                            Report No: 34520

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-40750)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                            FOR A

                            AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT




                                       December 19, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 2005)

                                   Currency Unit = American Dollars
                                              1.00 = US$ 1.00
                                         US$ 1.00 = 1.00

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1     December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFPS     Agricultural Farm Production Survey
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CATIE    Tropical Agriculture Center for Information and Teaching (Centro Agronómico Tropical
         de Información y Enseñanza)
CEDEGE   Center of Studies for the Development of the Lower Basin of the River Guayas (Centro
         de Estudios para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca Baja del Rio Guayas)
CIAT     International Center for Tropical Agriculture (Centro Internacional de Agricultura
         Tropical)
CIMMYT   International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (Centro Internacional de
         Mejoramiento de Maíz y Trigo)
CIP      International Potato Center (Centro Internacional de la Papa)
CIRAD    International Center for the Development of Agricultural Research
COFENAC  National Coffee Growers Commission (Consejo Cafetalero Nacional)
CONACYT  National Council for Science and Technology (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y
         Tecnología)
CONESUP  National Council for Higher Education (Consejo Nacional de Educación Superior)
COSUDE   Swiss Agency for Development
EPN      National Polytechnical School of Quito (Escuela Politécnica Nacional de Quito)
ESPOCH   Polytechnical School of Chimborazo (Escuela Politécnica de Chimborazo)
ESSD     Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FONTAGRO The Regional Fund for Agricultural Technology (Fondo Regional de Tecnoloía
         Agropecuaria)
FUNDACYT Science and Technology Foundation (Fundación de Ciencia y Tecnología)
GOE      Government of Ecuador
GTA      Generation of Agricultural Technology (Generación de Tecnología Agrícola)
GTZ      German Cooperation for Development
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, BID)
INAMHI   National Meteorology and Hydrology Institute (Instituto Nacional de Meteorología e
         Hidrología)
INEC     National Institute of Statistics and Census (Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censo)
INIAP    National Institute for Agriculture and Livestock Research (Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones
         Agropecuarias)
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
LCSER    Latin America and the Caribbean Region Rural Development Family
MAG      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation

MCU      Management and Coordination Unit
MMT      Mid Term Review Mission (Misión de Medio Termino)
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MTR      Mid Term Review
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
NRI      Natural Resources International
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCD      Project Concept Document
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SICA     Agricultural Information and Census System Project (Sistema de Información y Censo
         Agropecuario)
TA       Technical Assistance
TTA      Agricultural Technology Transfer (Transferencia de Tecnología Agropecuaria)
UECF     Executing Unit for the Competitive Fund (Unidad Ejecutora del Fondo Competitivo)
UIP      Program Implementation Unit (Unidad de Implementación del Programa)
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
USDA     United States Department of Agriculture
WB       World Bank
WTO      World Trade Organization


                                Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                             Country Director:      Marcelo M. Giugale
                              Sector Manager:       Mark E. Cackler
                                Sector Leader:      Maria D. Clark
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Matthew A. McMahon

                                          ECUADOR
                                Agricultural Research Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                  31

Map: ECUADOR IBRD 27174

Project ID: P007131                                                  Project Name: Agricultural Research Project
Team Leader: Matthew A. Mcmahon                                      TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural Research Project                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-40750
   Country/Department: ECUADOR                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (47%); Tertiary education
                            (39%); Central government administration (8%); Other social
                            services (6%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/21/1994                                     Effective: 10/16/1997                10/16/1997
     Appraisal: 05/22/1995                                         MTR: 01/08/2001                  01/08/2001
      Approval: 07/25/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 01/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN. AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo M. Giugale                             Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Nicolas Krafft
Team Leader at ICR:             Matthew A. McMahon                             Matthew A. McMahon
ICR Primary Author:             Suzanne Raswant (FAO/CP)
                                with input from Matthew A.
                                McMahon; Indira J. Ekanayake;
                                Teresa M. Roncal and Maribel
                                M. Cherres


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

This was "to strengthen the national capacity to do agricultural research, with an aim to increase agricultural
productivity and output while preserving or enhancing the natural resource base by: (i) introducing a competitive
research Grants program; (ii) developing Research and Education exchange partnerships with international science
institutions; and (iii) strengthening the national agricultural research institute, INIAP." (Staff Appraisal Report -
SAR)

At the time of project preparation, public expenditure on research as a proportion of agricultural GDP had declined
significantly since the mid-1970's to a low of 0.25% in 1993. Even with the addition of private sector research,
Ecuador's investment was significantly less than that of neighboring countries, who were its main competitors both
in world and regional markets. While INIAP's executive and scientific capacity had declined commensurately over
the same period, steps had been taken by the Government to arrest this decline by providing INIAP with
administrative autonomy and an endowment fund. INIAP was developing a new set of research priorities and a
new personnel plan was being implemented accordingly.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The overall development objective of the project was not revised. From the time of the Mid Term Review (MTR),
particular concern was expressed by Bank missions about the need to build on the substantial institutional
accomplishments of the project to institutionalize a modern system of agricultural research in the country which
would be competitive, demand driven, and innovative.

3.3 Original Components:

There were three original components: (1) Competitive Grants, divided into two subcomponents: (a) - research
grants and, (b) - research and education exchange partnerships (alianzas) with international institutions; (2)
Strengthening INIAP; and (3) Project Implementation Unit.

Component                                     Cost

Competitive Grant Funds                       $16.02 million
Strengthening of INIAP                        $7.28 million
Propject Implementation Unit                  $ 3.70 million

Total                                         $27.0 million

Competitive Grants (US$ 16.0 million, 59.3 % of total costs): (a) Research grants for individual research
subprojects, financing, on an open competitive basis, up to 75% of total subproject cost, with a view to increasing
the efficiency of allocation of funds for agricultural research and strengthening interactive linkages between public
and private sector entities; and (b) Research and education exchange partnerships, again financed on a competitive
basis, with a view to facilitating the importation of applicable technology and strengthening the research capacity
of Ecuadorian institutions as well as the graduate education programs in Ecuadorian universities

Strengthening INIAP (US$ 7.3 million, 26.9% of total costs): This included financing for (a) a Development Plan
to address the long term sustainability of INIAP; (b) fellowship grants for Advanced Degree Training; (c)
long-term Consultants to be hired for priority research areas; (d) Short-term Support from international senior
agricultural scientists and their institutions in critical research areas and for research administration; (e)
Equipment, Vehicles and Civil Works required to rehabilitate and modernize the research stations.

Project Implementation Unit ­ PIU (US$3.7 million, 13.7% of total costs): In addition to technical assistance and
the unit's costs for project administration, this covered a contract to an international consulting firm with



                                                          - 2 -

appropriate expertise to manage the technical aspects of the Competitive Grants component.

3.4 Revised Components:

While the overall objective remained the same there were some modifications to the items financed as reflected in
the above figures. Although a development plan for INIAP, required as a condition of disbursement for the
Strengthening INIAP component, was produced, it was never implemented, mainly because of a lack of interest on
the part of INIAP management. This plan, which covered the period 1998-2002, developed research priorities and
elaborated the financial and human resources necessary to execute these research priorities; as well as clarifying
the institution's role in a diversified agricultural innovation system. INIAP was further affected by the financial
crisis of 1999 when the value of its endowment and salary levels were greatly reduced by a major devaluation of the
national currency. Furthermore, because of resistance by staff, it was not possible to recruit long-term consultants
intended to replace INIAP staff undergoing training overseas, while international research scientists, intended to
assist in implementation of the development plan, were not recruited. At the time of the Mid Term Review,
resources for the above activities were transferred to the Competitive Grants component, which was operating
successfully. At the end of 2003, the project was extended until 31 January, 2005 in order to permit diffusion of
the research results obtained under the project, as well as satisfactory closure of all sub-projects. At this time, an
additional US$400,000 was made available for complementary civil works required by INIAP research stations but,
despite timely preparation of the bidding documents, these works could not be executed within the timeframe
because the required Ministry of Agriculture representative to the adjudicating committee was not appointed in
time.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was consistent with the CAS in so far as (i) research priorities emphasized basic food commodities
grown by resource poor farmers thereby contributing to poverty alleviation; (ii) a government institution ­ INIAP ­
was to be strengthened; and (iii) private sector development was to be encouraged by making research funding
available to the sector through the competitive Grants system. The setting of research priorities was successfully
addressed with the detailed attention given to this at project preparation. Likewise the need for a strategic plan for
INIAP was also identified correctly even though this was not executed by a weakened INIAP leadership, which also
suffered from the financial crisis which beset the country in 1999. The design of the Competitive Grants led to
investments by the private sector which were significantly higher than foreseen.

The Agricultural Research Project was one part of a three-pronged Modernization of Agricultural Services
Program (PROMSA), all administered by the PIU, the other parts of which covered Agricultural Extension and
Plant and Animal Health and were supported by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Although the SAR
mentioned these other aspects of the Program, it would have been desirable for explicit linkages to be made
between the different parts of the Program, particularly with respect to research and extension.

In short, appraisal underestimated the implications to project implementation in: (a) the inertia of INIAP with
regards to its ability to reform from within; (b) the difficulty with regards to the institutionalization of the
Competitive Grants since this implied a significant shift in the research culture; (c) the lack of capacity for
proposal preparation and the supervision and monitoring requirements of a Competitive Grants scheme.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall Project outcome and achievement of its objectives as stated in the SAR are rated as satisfactory.
The overall objective of strengthening the national capacity to do agricultural research has been achieved. The
national capacity to do agricultural research was strengthened in three ways; (a) it introduced a competitive system
to stimulate high-quality agricultural research which has been formally adopted in at least five public educational
institutions (for example: Universidad de Cuenca, Universidad Internacional de Ecuador, Universidad Estatal de
Guayaquil, Universidad del Azuay, and Universiad Nacional de Loja); (b) it raised the quality and capacity of the



                                                          - 3 -

research in INIAP even though its Development Plan was not implemented; (c) it raised awareness in the private
sector of the importance of "state of the art" technological research for competitiveness and the need to tailor
research to demand; and (d) it benefitted small-scale producers who would not have otherwise had access to new
technology. The project also served as a catalyst to mobilize private funding for research to levels unprecedented
in Ecuador and which were underestimated at the time of appraisal.

The Competitive Grants mechanism introduced a new approach to carrying out agricultural research and
encouraged collaboration between public and private entities.         It demonstrated its usefulness as a means of
leveraging resources for agricultural research, with contributions from participating institutions far exceeding
expectations. The use of Competitive Grants as a means of allocating resources for agricultural research was an
innovation in the Ecuadorian context and this required extra resources for project preparation, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation that were not adequately planned for at the time of project preparation. For both
research grants and alliances, a two-stage procedure had to be adopted, with an initial review of "profiles" and
subsequent invitation of proponents of satisfactory profiles to prepare detailed research proposals. Even so, more
assistance had to be provided than foreseen to applicants in the actual preparation of research proposals,
particularly with respect to budgeting and other financial aspects. However, this effort had important positive
institutional implications for a wide range of research institutions in the country which as a result of this work are
now well equipped to prepare and implement high quality research proposals. The existence of a significant
capacity for agricultural research outside INIAP has been demonstrated by the participation of 43 institutions both
public and private with 115 principal researchers; it led to 13 successful education and research partnerships (see
PROMSA May 2005, pages 2-26) as well as the participation of 14 public and private universities in research and
alliances. Many Ecuadorian researchers were provided with the opportunity, not only of carrying out research, but
also of preparing research proposals for funding, which was a novelty in the Ecuadorian context. The project has
contributed to a change in the mentality of researchers from that of passive recipients of research grants to
competitors for resources, which has in turn contributed to greater awareness of the need to accommodate research
to demand.

Educational grants for INIAP personnel helped to strengthen the research capacity of that institution. This is
clearly indicated by the performance of researchers with greater skills at the end of project period, number of grant
projects successfully implemented by INIAP, and the quantity and quality of publications resulting from such work
(PROMSA 2005). Rehabilitation of INIAP's research stations also contributed to improving the national capacity
to carry out agricultural research.

During the period of project implementation, national expenditure on agricultural research as a percentage of
agricultural GDP increased from 0.09 in 1999 to 0.85 in 2004. While public sector expenditure increased about
nine fold over the period, that of the private sector increased by a factor of twelve. In addition to a comprehensive
database, the project gave rise to over 1450 research "products" ranging from theses and technical bulletins to
posters and press articles. Particularly in the final year of the project, attention was focused on diffusion of
research results.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Competitive Grants. This component is rated as Satisfactory.
A contract was provided to a foreign consulting company (Natural Resources International. Ltd ­ NRI) to manage
both aspects of this component together with the scholarships for INIAP staff. The unit became known as the
Unidad Ejecutora del Fondo Competitivo (UEFC) and operated for four years from January 1999. Owing to delays
in recruitment of this company, the whole project was late in getting underway. Response to the first call for
research proposals in April 1999 was very promising with the presentation of 449 project profiles. Because of the
larger response and the uneven quality of the initial proposals, contrary to the procedure described in the SAR, it
was decided to have a two-stage selection process with initial vetting of simple project profiles and subsequent
invitation of proponents of those profiles that met the selection criteria to prepare detailed research proposals.
These went through a second selection process before final approval and financing. The review process itself was
carried out by a panel of peer reviewers under conditions of strict anonymity. The two-stage process was useful as
a large proportion of profiles were rejected because of not meeting selection criteria, and only a few of these were


                                                          - 4 -

recommended for reformulation and presentation at a subsequent competition. It was necessary to provide a
significant amount of assistance to researchers in the preparation of the detailed proposals, particularly with
respect to budgetary aspects, and many workshops and training courses were organized by the UEFC for this
purpose. Because of this assistance, the majority of approved research profiles were eventually financed as
research projects. In the course of the project, there were three calls for proposals, 21% of the profiles were
approved and a total of 108 research projects and 13 educational and research partnerships were financed.
Significantly, the contribution to funding by recipients of the grants was significantly greater than the average 35%
envisaged in the SAR, amounting to 50% of the cost of research projects and 41% of that of the alliances. The
contribution, which was mainly in kind (salaries of personnel, research facilities etc.) exceeded the original budget
by 105%.

In order to focus the limited resources for research, the SAR had identified 30 commodities in three tiers of
priority, which were subsequently limited in the course of a project workshop to 18. There was good representation
of different themes of research, from development of new varieties to animal production. The UEFC attempted to
encourage critical masses of research, thus there were several proposals financed in areas such as land and water
management, integrated pest management and organic production methods. The main area where there was a
shortage of good proposals was that of marketing. Regional distribution of the projects turned out to be equitable
without application of any specific criteria but simply on the basis of quality and relevance of the proposals
presented. The Competitive Grants fund succeeded in encouraging a range of institutions to present collaborative
research proposals. While the public sector predominated as lead institution in almost 70% of financed projects,
proposals from NGOs, producers' associations and even private sector companies were also financed. Particularly
notable were collaborations between public and private sector institutions/groups. Small farmers were the main
target group and this group received about 60% of the research projects.

An innovation introduced in the course of supervision of the research projects by the UEFC was the reference
group, made up of members of the target group, other scientists, local industrialists and extension workers, which
was used to guide the implementation of the project and ensure its relevance. The evaluation of the Competitive
Grants1 surveyed a sample of these reference groups and concluded that while they formed a useful monitoring
function for the research projects, ensuring that they remained focused on objectives, and provided a good forum
for beneficiary participation, their value was closely linked with the commitment of individual members and it
would be important, in future, to ensure their establishment and their members' participation in the design of the
research projects.

The response to the requests for proposals for exchange partnerships/alliances with international institutions was
less than expected ­ only 13 alliances were eventually financed. Main reasons behind the relatively low number of
alliances financed were the perceived lack of real collaboration between the Ecuadorian institution and the
proposed international partner, particularly the lack of prospects for a continuing relationship after the period
financed by the project, inflated budgets for relatively simple projects, and the lack of training for researchers in
those projects oriented towards research. However, the educational alliances did have significant results in terms
of numbers of Master's degrees (43 local and 2 international), diplomas (150), scholarships (97) and theses (97).

Both research projects and alliances were generally financed for three years and assessed at closure by means of a
structured evaluation carried out by project staff. On this basis, over three quarters of projects/alliances were
considered to be either satisfactory or very satisfactory, while the remainder was fairly satisfactory, with only one
rated unsatisfactory.2  The evaluations covered both technical and managerial aspects. The evaluations assessed
the potential impact of the research findings as it was too soon for results to have been applied. This issue was
partially addressed by the diffusion of results of some of the most promising projects in the final (extended) year of
project operations.

Strengthening INIAP. This component is rated as Unsatisfactory because of lack of progress in three areas; the
execution of the Development Plan, the hiring of Ecuadorian Scientists as Long-term Consultants and
International Senior Agricultural Research Scientist. However, there was substantial progress in the areas of
Rehabilitation of INIAP Research Stations and Training for Advanced Degrees which has been taken into



                                                         - 5 -

account as contributing to the Satisfactory rating for the overall project.
Although a Development Plan was produced in 1998, as a precondition of INIAP's participation in the project, it
did not achieve the desired result of supporting the development of INIAP as a key institution in a new, competitive
agricultural research environment.                 Critical areas such as human resource development and financial
administration were not reformed.                Lack of progress in the former helped to explain the failure of the
sub-component to finance Ecuadorian Scientists as Long-term Consultants as, owing to the resistance of INIAP
staff as well as shortage of counterpart funds in the year 2000, the budget for this was slashed so that eventually
less than 5% of the original amount budgeted was spent.                            Support from International Senior Agricultural
Research Scientists was only provided in the context of alliances under the Competitive Grants where INIAP was
the primary local institution for three alliances and a collaborating local institution in another three. More
positively, the resources dedicated to the Rehabilitation of INIAP Research Stations were executed at over 100%
of the original amount budgeted for civil works even though the project was unable to use the additional amount
allocated subsequently. Under Training for Advanced Degrees, managed by UEFC, scholarships were provided to
INIAP staff for 2 PhDs, 23 Master's degrees and 21 short courses overseas. The number of scholarships actually
financed was less than the number initially recommended by the selection panel as several candidates dropped out
for health or lack of language ability that restricted the choice of institutions. For these reasons, the budget
allocation for this item was reduced on the recommendation of the project's Mid-term Review. The candidates
rated the academic training they received highly and supervisors noted a marked improvement in research capacity
on their return. Ninety three percent of the graduates are working in the academic areas in which they were trained
and 100% continue working in the institutions in which they previously worked.

Project Implementation Unit. This component was rated as Satisfactory.
The PIU established by MAG was responsible not only for administration of the research project, but also for
extension and plant and animal health projects supported by IDB which were also part of PROMSA. In the cases
of research and extension, technical aspects were contracted out to international consultancy companies. In the
case of the research project, total project administration had a budget allocation to US$ 4.2 million. The technical
(UEFC) and financial (PIU) administration of the research subprojects were merged with the termination of the
consultant's contract in early 2003, and all supervision reverted to the PIU. In the initial years, the project suffered
from frequent changes of Director of the PIU and lack of suitably qualified people in key posts, which significantly
delayed implementation, but the situation stabilized in late 2000 with the appointment of a new Director through a
competitive selection process. The UEFC undertook prime responsibility for monitoring the research projects,
building up a database using Lotus Notes. Subsequently the PIU transferred the data base on the subprojects to the
more user-friendly ACCESS. PIU also developed and monitored overall project indicators. By the end of the
project, an exceptionally good database had been developed which could be easily accessed by project officials for
monitoring purposes, while also containing exhaustive records of all the documentation generated by the
sub-projects.


 1(Evaluación del Fondo Competitivo del Programa de modernización de los Servicios Agropecuarios, Reporte Final, preparado por Gustavo Sain y
Greg Traxler, Quito, Ecuador, Enero 2005).
2
  This project subsequently produced outputs which would have raised its rating to satisfactory.



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The SAR included a comprehensive economic analysis of the project using a multiple criteria model. In retrospect,
this appears rather ambitious for an agricultural research project that was limited in time and scope. At this stage
of project completion, it would only be possible to undertake another theoretical analysis if a similar
comprehensive approach were required, although some modicum of reality could be included as specific research
topics are known. It is too early to attempt a realistic assessment of the economic impact of the overall project, as,
in most cases; there has been insufficient time to apply the results of the research subprojects.

In the interim, results of five specific case studies -- (3 projects and 2 alliances --3 that are representative and are of



                                                                      - 6 -

sufficient acceptance by the target population to permit some economic analysis of potential impact are
summarized below (for details see Annex 3). The projects covered: improved varieties of barley, organic coffee,
and improved production of guinea pigs; while the alliances involved: a course in sustainable tropical agriculture
and new techniques for processing banana flour and quinoa noodles. In the two cases of barley varieties and coffee
production, where it was possible to estimate an Internal Rate of Return (IRR), the results were positive showing
returns of 37% and 23% respectively. In general, the high rate of adoption of the new technologies (between 80
and 100%) was an indication of their viability. In the case of the alliance for education (M.S. degree course) in
sustainable tropical agriculture, because of the newness of the program it is not possible to estimate the direct
economic benefits. Nonetheless following up on the 30 graduates of the program indicates that the program was
beneficial and improved the graduates employment situation. Fifty percent were promoted to a higher position in
their institutions, 40% reported that they had changed to a better job, while the other 10% reported that they had
improved the management of their own farms. The cost of the course per graduate was $11,588 which is a modest
investment according to international standards. In the case of processing of plantain flour and quinoa noodles
both technologies are at an early development stage, nevertheless they each show potential for private profitability.
In the case of quinoa the product has the advantage of being a native Andean product with a comparative
advantage based on the genetic diversity and the trademark protection based on product origin.

Although the case studies represent a small sample, 3% of research projects and 15% of partnerships, the positive
results augur well for the overall positive economic and financial impact of the project. The non-economic project
benefits in the areas of environment, social including gender, and institutions are also detailed in Annex 3.

3(carried out by the Misión de Evaluación, op.cit.)


4.4 Financial rate of return:

n/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact has essentially been one of bringing into the national agricultural research
system a range of institutions that had not previously participated in such a system. While the project did
contribute to strengthening INIAP, even though not to the level envisaged at appraisal, by making it the recipient
of about 30% of the PROMSA resources it had a major impact on other public and private research institutions.
The foundation has been laid for further development of an agricultural innovation system which is diversified,
demand driven and competitively funded.

The project intended to create a diversified and interactive research system. In this context, the institutional
impact outside of INIAP is particularly important. The project encouraged a flowering of the latent agricultural
research capacity in organizations such as universities (both public and private), associations of producers and
private enterprises. The emphasis on alliances and collaboration on proposals served to underline the advantages
of working together, for example, a private enterprise could benefit from technical expertise of university
researchers, who were given the opportunity to carry out research on issues of practical importance to farmers. The
response in cofinancing, even though this was mostly in kind, was particularly important in drawing resources into
agricultural research and innovation, an area that historically has been underfunded. The project because of its
competitive and demand driven nature also helped to identify centers of excellence within various institutions and
this bodes well for the future of a more diversified system.

While because of the lack of adoption of the development plan, INIAP was not restructured, the institutional
impact of the project on INIAP lies in the better-trained staff, which benefited from the scholarships under the
project, and the improved facilities at the research stations. Because of the extensive participation of INIAP in the
Competitive Grants Fund, where it received over 30% of the resources provided by PROMSA, the research
capacity of the organization was improved and, most importantly, a new culture of competition for resources took
root. Staff has been trained in the development of proposals and the administration of research projects and INIAP



                                                          - 7 -

is now in a good position to contend for additional resources even though it still requires to be transformed into a
more innovative institution.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The financial crisis in Ecuador, which led to dollarization of the economy in 2000 resulted in a shortage of
counterpart funds in the early years of project implementation, may be considered outside the control of
government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The implementation period of this project coincided with a period a great political and economic upheaval in
Ecuador, there were several changes of government as well as a major devaluation which led to the dollarization of
the economy.

These political upheavals in the early years of implementation resulted in 4 Directors in less than 3 years.
Assignation of priority to strengthening the top management of INIAP, thereby signaling government support of
the concept of a renewed agricultural research system, might have reinforced INIAP's role as a leading actor in a
new agricultural research environment. INIAP was not perceived as a priority issue for the Ministry of Agriculture
which for the most part assumed a hands-off attitude. Stronger commitment to the project on the part of the
Ministry of Agriculture could have prevented the loss of the final US$400,000 budgeted for complementary civil
works at the INIAP research stations. Frequent changes of the Minister of Agriculture in the final two years of the
project cast uncertainty over the institutionalization of the favorable aspects of the project i.e. stronger commitment
to the competitive allocation of resources to the agricultural innovation system.

Provision of counterpart funds in the early years of project operations by the Government was slow partly due to
the overall slow progress of the project and also, in 2000, due to the financial crisis and subsequent dollarization.
However, performance subsequently improved and, by project closure, Government expenditure amounted to
almost double the amount initially budgeted.

The frequent changes in the Ministry of Agriculture in the latter years of the project resulted in a lack of consistent
dialogue on the future of the national agricultural technology system.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Recruitment of the consulting company to manage the competitive fund which was delayed due to questions as to
the procurement process slowed down the initial implementation of the project. However, once recruited this
company was somewhat immune to the political instability which was characteristic of the first years of the project
and was able to progress rapidly with the installation of the Competitive Grants scheme.

Management problems in the early years with frequent changes of Director and other key personnel seriously
impeded progress. However, from the end of 2000, the project management team in the PIU stabilized and
implementation benefited. While only 18% of resources were disbursed in the initial three years of operation, this
was also due to the nature of a Competitive Grants scheme which disburses little in the early years but which
increases greatly in later years due to the approval of an increasing number of subprojects.

The Competitive Grants Fund functioned relatively well and management responded creatively to problems created
by researchers' lack of experience in the preparation of proposals. This is illustrated, in part, by the fact that a
larger proportion of profiles (30%) presented at the final competition in 2001 met requirements for further
development as proposals, and the time required for such development was shorter than on previous occasions.
However, the increased requirements for managing and supervising subprojects and which had to be built up in the
initial years did slow down implementation in the first years. The overall transparency of the selection process



                                                           - 8 -

functioned particularly well as evidenced by the acceptance of the panel's recommendations. While the PIU did a
superb job of managing the Competitive Grants component (see PROMSA 2005), it failed to develop an exit
strategy to ensure sustainability of the competitive system within the MAG, despite the Bank's intervention in this
regard.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The initial project budget was US$27 million of which US$21 million was financed by the Bank Loan, US$2.9
million by executing agencies and US$3.1 million by the Government. At the Mid Term it was agreed to cancel
US$1.2 million of the Loan leaving a revised budget of US25.8 million.

Total budget execution was US$28.89 million equivalent to 112% of the revised budget. The loan resources were
executed at a level of US$17.37 million or 82.7% of the original budget. The executing agencies contributed
US$9.75 million (mostly in kind) or 336.26% of the original amount. The Government contributed US$1.77
million or 57.1% of the original budget.

The project budget was revised at the recommendation of the Mid-term Review, and funds were also transferred
from the consultancy resources under the INIAP component to boost the Competitive Grants Fund, which was
functioning well. More funds were also directed to the operating costs of the PIU. This was needed as the
resources dedicated to subproject preparation i.e. the two step process and the monitoring of subprojects were
underestimated at Appraisal. Further minor revisions were made to the budget when the project was extended
until January 2005 in order to permit completion of the rehabilitation of INIAP's research stations and
continuation of project operations (subproject supervision and closure, preliminary diffusion of research results) for
another year.

A major success of the project was the amount of counterpart funds generated under the Competitive Grants Fund.
The various collaborating institutions provided contributions averaging 33.7% of total costs in comparison with an
average of 10.7% estimated at Appraisal. These contributions underlined the importance of the initial seed money
provided through the competitive system, which was sufficient to leverage resources that, otherwise, might not
have been used for agricultural research. It should be borne in mind that these resources were generally provided
in kind, which serves to further emphasize the importance of the cash provided by the Fund.

At project closure, the resources executed by the project exceeded the final budgeted amount by about 12%, due to
the contributions of collaborating institutions and the Government. This resulted from the favorable leveraging of
resources from the many participating institutions. Disbursement of the World Bank loan amounted to 88% of the
revised budget of US$ 19.8 million and approximately US$ 2.4 million were cancelled. The main areas where
expenditure was lower than planned were Civil Works, and Consultancy Services, owing to lower than expected
expenditures on the Development Plan for INIAP.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is considered unlikely because of the lack of political will to perpetuate the public
Competitive Grants Fund which is an essential part of a diversified and competitive agricultural technology system
which was envisioned in the project design. Nevertheless, even though public resources from the Ministry of
Agriculture to support and build upon the foundation of the new agricultural research system which has been
established by the project will be limited, it is encouraging to note that there are many initiatives being undertaken
by a range of institutions that participated in this project so as to ensure that their research programs are supported.
At least three universities, Universidad de Cuenca, Universidad Tecnica de Ambato and Universidad Agraria have
assigned resources to a Competitive Fund to support their research programs. In other specific subprojects the
private sector will continue support. The Consejo de Educacion Superior (CONESUP) has initiated a fund of $1m
to fund research in universities. There are also funds available from the Fundacion de Ciencia y Tecnologia
(FUNDACYT) from which researchers trained in project proposal preparation can participate. Even in INIAP



                                                          - 9 -

where the reform process did not prosper, several of its projects have received funding from other sources and
small competitive funds have been set up by other donors such as GTZ, COSUDE and PL-480.

The importance of developing a proposal for a publicly funded permanent competitive and demand driven system
in the MAG was emphasized at the time of the Mid-term Review, but this was not developed prior to project
ending. This was partly due to the frequent changes of Ministers of Agriculture in the last two years of the project
as well as to the uncertainty that surrounded the extension of the closing date of the project. However, the project
laid the foundation for a new agricultural research system by demonstrating the availability of research capacity
throughout the country, this capacity can be further activated with some infusion of finance. GOE recognizes the
need for sustainability and that more time is needed for the institutionalization of the changes initiated by this
project, a request has been made for a follow up project to consolidate the efforts of the two projects (PROMSA and
SICA) and the institutionalization of the agricultural information, research, and extension systems within MAG.
However, the type of a national agricultural research system that the country now needs will require a greater
public commitment than is now present.

At the same time, INIAP, although it has benefited substantially from the project, needs further reform and its
future viability depends on the success of this reform. In the absence of restructuring and/or substantial infusion of
funds, it will not be able to continue with the same level of research activity that it was able to carry out with the
assistance of the project. Although INIAP, and other institutions, are now well prepared to compete for resources
to carry out agricultural research, there needs to be a concomitant commitment of public funds to support such a
system.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Research projects have been closed and a significant effort made to diffuse the results as far as possible,
culminating in a Feria in Guayaquil to disseminate the results of more than 60 of the most successful projects to a
wider audience. The project leaves behind an excellent subproject database and monitoring system, which is easily
accessible as well as a model for similar complex operations. This will be an important contribution to future
implementation when funding becomes available. While individual research projects will keep their own material,
the data in the project office has been handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture. Many of the research projects
initiated by the project will be continued since many of the researchers and their institutions have actively sought
funding for the continuation of this research. While financial support from the Ministry of Agriculture is weak,
the institutional impact of this project is such that researchers are now well prepared to prepare competitive
proposal for research. In this way, there has been a cultural change in the research community.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The project was consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Ecuador in so far as it was designed to contribute
to poverty alleviation while, at the same time, it proposed to promote private sector development and strengthen a
key government institution.     The introduction of the Competitive Grants Fund as a means to promote the
development of private sector research capacity and, particularly alliances between public and private sector
institutions, was successful. The strengthening of INIAP was reduced with regard to the initial targets and while
the Bank was engaged in the issue during project execution, preparation underestimated the difficulty of reforming
an institution such as INIAP from within. Much more reform of the institution was achieved from the outside
through the Competitive Grants. Considerable effort was devoted to identification of research priorities.

7.2 Supervision:

The project benefited from having the same Task Manager throughout who participated in all Supervision missions
and led the Mid-term Review. This served to ensure a consistent approach on the part of the Bank and contribute
to a thorough understanding of project requirements. Supervision missions were carried out at a rate of one or two



                                                        - 10 -

a year and appear to have been adequately staffed to address the issues of the moment. There was appropriate
reaction to major issues such as the lack of progress with institutional reform at INIAP that threatened to slow
down the overall progress of project implementation. In this case, the component was scaled down and resources
diverted to the successful Competitive Grants component.            Beginning with the MTR the Bank consistently
emphasized the need for a more systematic approach to strengthening a modern, competitive and demand driven
agricultural research system.     While there was agreement on this overall approach its implementation was
hampered by the instability in the Ministry of Agriculture and the resultant lack of planning.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Agricultural Research Project was prepared as one component of the program for the Modernization of
Agricultural Services. The overall Modernization project was prepared with a PHRD grant which was used to
finance a NGO to prepare the project. This was staffed by highly competent professionals and there was a high
level of involvement of the Minister and Technical Subsecretary of Agriculture at the time. There was a very
satisfactory level of ownership on behalf of the government. In the preparation, considerable attention was given
to identification of research priorities as well as the needs of INIAP at the time.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Although the Government eventually financed a larger proportion of project costs than envisaged, political support
was not always strong. In particular, leadership of INIAP for much of the project was weak and the proposed
reform of the institution suffered. Frequent changes of Minister of Agriculture in the latter years of project
implementation impeded the development of a permanent funding alternative which will be needed to support an
agricultural innovation system which this project envisaged and for which it has laid the groundwork.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The project started slowly mainly because of the frequent changes of the management team in the PIU.
Stabilization of the team after the appointment of the final Director of PROMSA in 2000, led to a significant
improvement in performance. The Agency benefited from the support of the consulting company which ran the
Competitive Fund and was able to successfully take over implementation and supervision activities on the
termination of the latter's contract in early 2003. Of note is the establishment of an excellent subproject database
and monitoring system, easily accessible to PIU officials and a model for similar complex operations. A clear
weakness of the PIU is its failure to develop and exit strategy or as mentioned above a funding strategy of the
competitive system within Ministry of Agriculture continuing in to the future, but the circumstances prevailing
within MAG in the final years of project implementation rendered this task exceptionally difficult.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


A Competitive Grants system is feasible even within a small scientific community such as the agricultural research
community in Ecuador, if adequate resources are dedicated to project preparation and monitoring of activities.
This requires a much greater amount of resources than conventional supply driven research projects. A two-phase
selection process with initial review of research project concepts followed by detailed preparation of proposals for
those selected is effective, particularly in light of considerable technical assistance required for the preparation of



                                                          - 11 -

detailed project proposals. The transparency of selection procedures helps to ensure widespread acceptance of the
peer review decisions.

A Competitive Grants system can make a significant contribution to strengthening the national capacity to do
agricultural research by drawing out latent capacity external to the national agricultural research system as well as
leveraging resources which might otherwise not be used for agricultural research. Because most counterpart
resources are available in kind (personnel, facilities etc.) the external financial contribution is essential as leverage
to initiate the process.

A Competitive Grants system is an important tool to help researchers and institutions to prepare high quality
proposals and install good financial and reporting systems.          Traditional national research authorities derive
considerable benefit from the experience of participating in competitive grant schemes.               The emphasis on
partnerships and joint proposals, particularly between public and private sector organizations, promotes awareness
of reciprocal capabilities and contributes to better-informed proposals.

A Competitive Grants system is flexible enough to allow funding of research in all aspects of the production chain
if needed. In this project the following areas were covered; natural resource management, production, agroindustry,
marketing and occupational health of field workers.

As a Competitive Grants system per se is not self-sustaining, means for the establishment of a competitive, demand
driven system beyond the project phase need to be developed as an integral part of the project itself. While a
Competitive Grants system is very effective for the many reasons listed above, they are not sustainable unless there
is full government support for a larger agricultural innovation system. Competitive Grants should be seen as one
mechanism to promote innovation within a broader scheme of financing.

Serious reform of an established national research establishment requires a combination of political will and staff
support. Reform from within of established public entities is very difficult to achieve, and a more feasible approach
may be through external incentives such as the competitive allocation of resources. There also needs to be pressure
from outside constituencies that demand that change. The independent PIU needs to work closely with the highest
government authorities to promote this change. Finally, benchmarking of reform should be incorporated into
project design so that progress can be measured over the life of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 for the Borrower's Assessment

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
INIAP also provided comments. Essentially, it acknowledges the significant benefits derived from the project in
terms of trained personnel, improved facilities and, particularly, the experience gained with respect to competing
for research funding through the competitive grant scheme. INIAP obtained co-financing worth over US$ 2.7
million for 44 research projects and another US$ 470,000 for research partnerships in addition to participating as a
collaborating institution in another 19 projects and two partnerships.




                                                         - 12 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
                 Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Priority setting mechanisms established    1                               1
and functioning.
2. Numbers of technical and scientific                                        1455
publications.
3. Ratio of project/counterpat expenditure on 70:30                           52:48
research
4. Flow of research applications              40                              802


Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
                 Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
COMPETITIVE RESEARCH GRANTS                   8                               51
(CRG) No. of Promotions


CRG - No. of applicants                       40                              43
CRG - No. of grants approved                  25                              108
CRG - No. of grant applications by INIAP      10                              126
CRG - No of grant applications by             20                              273
Universities
CRG - No. of Grant Applications by Joints     6                               486
projects
CRG - No. of Grant application by Private     4                               265
Sector
CRG - No. of grants awarded to Universities 12                                36
CRG - Grants awarded to INIAP                 7                               45
CRG - No of grants awarded in joint projects 4                                105
CRG - No. of grants awarded to the private    2                               32
sector
CRG - Amount of resources (%) (000)           24                              12
captured from Universities
CRG - Amount of resources captured from       14                              20
INIAP
CRG - Amount of resources captured from       12                              14
Private Sector
CRG - Amount of resources from the GOE        50                              54
CRG - No. of projects involving on-farm       10                              88
research
CRG - No. of projects financed in small       15                              62
farmer agriculture
RESEARCH AND EDUCATION                        2                               3
PARTNERSHIPS(REP) - No. of Promotions

1End of project




                                                           - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Competitive Grants Fund                                     16.02           21.85           136.39
Strengthening INIAP                                          7.28             1.24           17.03
Project Implementation Unit                                  3.70             5.80          156.76

Total Baseline Cost                                         27.00           28.89
                        Total Project Costs                 27.00           28.89
                  Total Financing Required                  27.00           28.89


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.50         0.25          0.00          0.75
                                  (0.00)           (0.45)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.65)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.70          0.00          0.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.60)          (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         7.25          0.00          7.25
TA                                (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.15)          (0.00)       (6.15)
4. Competitive Grants             0.00              0.00        18.30          0.00         18.30
Research and fellowships          (0.00)           (0.00)      (13.60)         (0.00)       (13.60)
grants
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.50        26.50          0.00         27.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.45)      (20.55)         (0.00)       (21.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.69           0.00         0.69
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.61)         (0.00)       (0.61)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.38           0.00         0.38
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.34)         (0.00)       (0.34)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         3.66           0.00         3.66
TA                                (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.21)         (0.00)       (3.21)
4. Competitive Grants             0.00             0.00        21.86           0.00        21.86
Research and fellowships          (0.00)          (0.00)      (12.09)         (0.00)       (12.09)



                                                - 15 -

   grants
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              2.30             0.00              2.30
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.12)            (0.00)           (1.12)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00             28.89             0.00             28.89
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (17.37)            (0.00)           (17.37)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
      Components                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Competitive Grants Fund       11.60         1.60         2.90       12.10         0.00       9.75       104.3     0.0     336.2
Strengthening INIAP            6.50         0.74         0.00        1.10         0.14       0.00       16.9      18.9      0.0
Project Implementation         2.90         0.76         0.00        4.17         1.63       0.00       143.8    214.5      0.0
Unit
TOTAL                         21.00         3.10         2.90       17.37         1.77       9.75       82.7      57.1    336.2

   CoF. includes researchers, tenders, fees and interest.




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project considered the following five case studies (3 projects and 2 partnerships) as representative and having
had sufficient acceptance by the target population that permitted some economic analysis.

Case 1: Improved Barley varieties

Project Title: Evaluation and selection of barley lines with partial resistance to leaf rust using a participative
research approach
Objective: Develop and diffuse two new barley varieties: INIAP-Quilotoa 2003 and INIAP-Cañari 2003.The target
group project was comprised of 15 communities of mainly indigenous and mestizo groups for whom barley is a
fundamental source of food and income. Even though there was no formal baseline survey, previous INIAP
experience in barley improvement in these communities permitted the producer groups to be characterized. The
producers belonged to marginal rural indigenous groups in economically deprived areas, characterized by low
income, low levels income, and without access to credit.
Research results were diffused through the following procedures: (a) Seed distribution; (b) Field days; (c)
Publication and distribution of the bulletin: "I-Quilotoa 2003 e I-Cañari 2003, Nuevas Variedades de Cebada para
la Sierra Centro-Norte Ecuatoriana"; (d) Preparation and diffusion of three pamphlets explaining the
characteristics of the varieties, information about their handling, and simple recipes for using the new varieties;
and (e) Preparation of a press release and a newspaper report.

Partial Budget Data showed that the new varieties along with increased fertilization are highly profitable, with a
net benefict of approximately US$210/ ha. The primary source of benefit is from the 275% yield increase.
Table 3a. Partial budget results (US$) from changing barley varieties
                    ITEMS                          Farmer Practice        Recommended Practic        % Change
 Yield (qq/ha)                                            16                       60
 Price ($/qq)                                             7.5                      7.5
Gross benefit ($/ha)                                      120                      450                   330


Seed (qq/ha)                                               4                        3
Seed Price                                                7.5                      16.2
Seed price ($/ha)                                         30                       48.6                  18.6
Fertilizer 10-30-10 (qq/ha)                                                         3
Price 10-30-10 ($/qq)                                                              10.5
Urea (qq/ha)                                                                        3
Price of urea ($/qq)                                                                9
Hand labor for application (days per ha)                                           2.5
Price of labor ($/day)                                                              5
Cost of fertilization ($/ha)                               0                       71                    71.0
Total costs that vary ($/ha))                             30                      119.6                  89.6
Cost of capital (12%)                                     3.6                    14.352
Harvest costs ($/ha)                                      40                       45
Planting costs ($/ha)                                     20                       30
Harvest cost ($/ha)                                      1.92                      7.2
TOTAL VARIABLE COSTS ($/ha))                            95.52                    216.152               120.632
NET BENEFIT ($/ha)                                      24.48                    233.848               209.368
Notes: Net benefits include cost of operating capital and of harvesting costs.

Diffusion curve estimate: The program had a goal of covering 900 families with a cultivation area of 700 hectares.
A survey of producers who received seed was conducted. The figures suggest that there were approximately 140
hectares planted to the improved varieties or approximately 14% of the barley area in the recommendation domain.



                                                        - 17 -

The adoption ceiling is estimated at 60% of the total barley area. Given these characteristics, and assuming that
there are no restrictions in seed availability, the path of adoption is indicated in the following figure.


                         0.9


                         0.7


                         0.5
                  areao
                       % 0.3


                         0.1


                        -0.1 2000    2002          2004        2006         2008        2010

                                                          Year



Estimate of the Flow of Net profits and Project IRR . The benefit and estimated costs of executing the project
were expressed as the annual flow of net profits and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) (Table 3b). It is assumed
that costs were distributed evenly during each year of the execution of the project and that additional costs of 10%
were needed to maintain the diffusion of the new varieties. The estimates confirm the profitability of the project
for the individual farmer that adopts the varieties and for the Ecuadorian society. The IRR up to 2005 is superior to
the opportunity cost of the capital invested in the project. However, it should be kept in mind that these are not the
total costs of developing the varieties; rather they are only the additional costs of the project to adapt and diffuse
materials that had previously been the subject of genetic improvement.

Table 3b. Estimate of the Flow of Net profits and Internal Rate of Return
   Year        Benefits ($)       Costs ($)             Net Benefits ($)
   2000                   0       20,182.67                  -20183
    2001                5,670     20,182.67                  -15983
    2002          14,279          20,182.67                   -7864
    2003          27,191            6,000                     21271
    2004          46,200            6,000                     46500
    2005          73,438            6,000                     83372
    2006         110,987            6,000                    127336
    2007         160,087            6,000                    168639
    IRR                 37%
 (at 2005)
     IRR                68%
 ( at 2010)

The economic impact of a project is only a part of the total of benefits or impacts that a given project has on the
target population. In this section therefore some aspects of those benefits that cannot be valued directly because
they do not have a market price are summarized.
Environmental: The new varieties possess genetic resistance to several types of rust; therefore the farmers will not
be required to apply fungicides for the control of these illnesses. That is expected to contribute to the preservation
of the environment. Also, the new barley lines don't require high doses of chemical fertilizer to produce
comparative yields versus previous lines.



                                                          - 18 -

Food security: Barley is one of the main foods of the campesinos that inhabit the higher elevations. Because more
grain is produced with the introduction of the new varieties, producers have a more secure source of food and will
be able to market the surpluses.
Gender: The project encouraged women's active participation. As shown previously, given the current high rate of
migration of males to the cities, women have taken an increased burden of field activities. This has been reflected
in the interest of the women in the activities developed during project execution, and in the desire of the project
personnel in involving them through the organization of producer groups (see G. Traxler report for details).

Case 2: Production of organic coffee

Project Title: Development of technologies for the production of organic Arabic coffee
 Characterization of the recommendation Domain: The coffee growers belonging to the Groups of Organic
Production (GOP) constituted the "direct beneficiaries" of the project. They were the first ones to adopt organic
production technologies generated by the project through the "Guide for production and processing at the farm
level" (Internal Norms). The goal of COFENAC was to incorporate 3,158 producers, approximately 34% of the
recommendation domain.

Profitability of the results generated by the Project As a result of the application of the improved techniques,
yields were doubled. The average yield of Arabic coffee plantations in the RD of the Project in 1999 was 4
quintals/ha of coffee of poor quality. In the organic farms linked to COFENAC, the average yield of coffee
plantations reached the 20 quintals/ha. Also, the volume of coffee quality was increased satisfying the requirements
of coffee exporters.

The benefits of adoption of the recommended practices were generated through increased productivity and higher
prices received because the coffee was sold as organic.

Table 3c . Partial budget for maintenance of organic coffee.
 ITEMS                                        Traditional          Recommended          % Change
                                              Practices            Practices
 Yield (qq oro /ha)                                   4                    20
 Price ($/qq)                                         35                   65
Gross margin ($/ha)                                   140                 1300                  1160
Fertilizer                                             0                   338
Compost                                                                    290
Biol                                                                        8
Applications                                                               40
Health                                                 0                   56
Caldo Bordeles                                                             36
Applications                                                               20
Total Costs that vary                                  0                   394                   394
Cost of capital (12%                                                      47.28
Harvest and benetits of coffee                       93.5                  374                 280.5
Harvest                                               50                   200
Degraining                                            15                   60
Fermentation                                          7.5                  30
Washing                                                6                   24
Drying                                                 5                   20
Storage                                                6                   24
Transport                                              4                   16
TOTAL COSTS THAT VARY ($/ha)                         93.5                  768                 674.5
NET BENFIT ($/ha)                                    46.5                  532                 485.5



                                                       - 19 -

According to these figures, the producer will obtain an increase in the net profit, including the cost of the capital,
of almost $485/ha. This increase comes from a yield increase of 400% and a price premium of 71%. It was
necessary to make some simplifying assumptions to make the estimate of profitability. A 10 year cycle was
assumed for conversion to the organic system, where the first 3 years are used to install the system of organic
agriculture and the other 7 years include sales of organic coffee, and maintenance expenses. During the installation
phase, the farmer pays the costs of the technology but does not receive benefits from the organic price premium.
The yields increase linearly. The following table estimates IRR for the adopting farmers.

Table 8. Estimated profitability of adopting the organic coffee over a 10 year period.

Year       Traditional       Orgainic        Change
            Practices

  1            46.5            -628          -674.5
  2            46.5            -348          -394.5
   3           46.5             -68          -114.5
   4           46.5             532           485.5
   5           46.5             532           485.5
   6           46.5             532           485.5
   7           46.5             532           485.5
   8           46.5             532           485.5
   9           46.5             532           485.5
  10           46.5             532           485.5
 IRR                                          23%


Since the cost of the capital in the region was estimated at 12%, the change is profitable from the point of view of
the adopter. However, the needed investment in the first years can be an obstacle to adoption for many farmers.
The net present value of the increment flow at a 12% cost of capital was $579.00/ha.

 Diffusion curve estimation The certifying agency carries out an inspection (audit) of the Internal Quality Control
Systems of the producers groups at least once a year, with the purpose of verifying its operation through a sampling
of their operation. This way, the certifying agency verifies the execution of the ecological norms and guarantees the
consumers of the integrity of the organic products. Using this information and considering an adoption ceiling of
60% of the total of 3,158 producers in the DR, the adoption curve is:




                                                        - 20 -

                0.9

                0.7

                0.5
                   area
                0.3    %

                0.1

                -0.1 1999         2001      2003         2005        2007       2009
                                                       Year




Estimate of the Flow of Net profits and IRR of the Project: Taking the benefit data and the costs of the project
into consideration, the corresponding annual flows and internal rate of return estimates is given in Table 3d.

Table 3d. Estimate of the Flow of Net profits and Internal Rate of Return
Year           Benefit ($)    Research costs ($)          Net benefit

   1999                 0           71834                   -71834
    2000          9393              71834                   -62441
    2001          27774             71834                   -44060
    2002          61941             21550.2                  40390
    2003         119761             21550.2                  98211
    2004         203653             21550.2                 182102
    2005         301700             21550.2                 280149
    2006         391072             21550.2                 369522
    IRR           18%
 (to 2004)
    IRR            52%
 ( to 2010)

The indicators show a profitable project, although just as expected profitability is smaller than that of the
previously    improved barley variety. This result is consistent with the literature on economic evaluation of
agricultural research, where the technologies related with the genetic improvement show the highest IRR.

Besides the direct impact on productivity and prices, the project had important environmental and social impacts.
Environmental: Organic production is oriented to provide consumers clean, high quality products from a
sustainable production system that is based on international norms audited by a certifying agency. The organic
coffee, grown in diverse agroforestry systems with the support of the Project, was able to obtain the certification of
"Environment-Friendly" coffee.
Employment: The recommended technology generates more employment of household labor than traditional
methods. The larger use of family labor in the production of the organic coffee may contribute to reducing
migration from coffee areas toward the cities.




                                                       - 21 -

Case 3: Improved Guinea pig management

Project Title: Evaluation of nutritious diets, rearing systems and genetic lines of guinea pigs to improve the
nutrition and income of families in Tungurahua, Azuay and Loja.

The project targeted three women's associations with a total of 31 members. Neighboring communities are also
indirect beneficiaries, along with the direct beneficiaries that participated in the courses, discussions, visits and
sale of improved guinea pigs. The project had a goal of reaching 1,000 peasants through various different means,
mainly through a manual on raising of guinea pigs, and through the provision of improved animals.

The project examined a variety of alternative treatments directed at improving productivity. The following
recommendations were generated:
·        Switch to improved guinea pigs from Creole guinea pig.
·        Guinea pigs raised in silos set apart from the house.
·        Diets: [Balanced, formulated by project scientists] + [forage such as medic or rye grass (30 gr for animal
and per day)]
·        Use of triticale in areas where grown (South)
The new technologies improved the quality of the guinea pigs, the rate of growth and overall weight gain. As a
result, guinea pigs improved in comparison with the Creole guinea pigs that led to higher profitability.

Partial budgets were used to carry out the financial analysis. Analysis used a representative stocking rate of 10
females and 1 male. Results are detailed below.
The economic analysis demonstrates that Treatment 10 (improved guinea pigs, floor raised, fed a balanced diet) is
the best treatment. The marginal rate of return from to this treatment is very superior to the capital cost including
the risk. Using 12% as cost of the capital, and a half size litter of 11 guinea pigs (10 females and 1 male), this
treatment represents an increment in net profit, including the cost of the capital of $206/year.

Table3e. Partial budget and marginal analysis of 12 experimental treatments
 Treatment            Costs that vary         Gross margin           Net Benefit               IRR
         PA                   162.5                    133                     -29.5
          3                   176.1                  160.5                     -15.6              1.02
          2                   200.8                    216                     15.2               1.25
          5                   202.4                  175.5                     -26.9                D
          4                   205.5                    207                      1.5                 D
          9                   205.9                  174.5                     -31.4                D
          7                   209.2                    171                     -38.2                D
          11                  218.5                    179                     -39.5                D
          8                   235.6                    373                    137.4               3.51
          6                   238.7                    320                     81.3                 D
          10                  245.6                    432                    186.4               4.90
         12                   247.2                    376                    128.8                D

Acceptance of the new technologies The level of acceptability of the technology among the population of women
that participated in the Project was analyzed. Among the RD of direct beneficiaries of the association of women of
Santa Rosa of Tungurahua 100% adopted the recommended practices. The high level of adoption of the
recommended practices can be attributed to the profitability of the investment, to the importance of guinea pigs in
the human diet and to the care that the project placed in the diffusion of the results through to variety of means.
The total cost of the project was $136,155, with $74,695 coming from PROMSA and $61,460 from counterpart
funding by the Technical University of Ambato and the INIAP experiment station Chuquipata. Because of the early
stage of diffusion of the project, the total potential flow of benefits of the project cannot be calculated. However, the
high level of increased profitability per unit and the rapid rate of adoption of the project components suggest that



                                                          - 22 -

the project is profitable.

Among the indirect project impacts are the following: (a) Environmental: Guinea pig waste is being used for
composting to improve the fertility and production of organic cereals and (b) Social. Increased solidarity,
knowledge sharing, and self-determination within the communities.

Case 4: Alliance for the Education in Sustainable Agriculture
Project Title: Education and Research in Sustainable Tropical Agriculture in Ecuador.

Characterization of the Target Population The target student group consists of professionals with an existing
connection to the agricultural sector who do not have the economic resources to finance an M.S. degree outside of
Ecuador. Students come mainly from coastal areas including the counties of Guayas, Los Ríos and El Oro. The
disciplinary background of students are: 67% are agronomists, 18% biologists, and 15% from other backgrounds
including chemistry, economics, business administration, forestry, zoology, geology and mechanical engineering.
Sixty-eight percent of students are male, 32% female. Thirty-five percent are currently employed in the public
sector, 29% in the private sector, 16% are self-employed, 17% are unemployed, and 3% work in semi-private
institutions.

Project outcome The alliance generated increased human capital through formal education and professional
formation. Up to now, 26% of entrants have graduated. This is expected to increase to 70% by the end of 2006.

Because of the newness of the program, it is not possible to estimate the direct economic benefits. Nonetheless,
follow-ups on the 30 program graduates, indicates that the program was beneficial. All program graduates
improved their employment situation. Fifty percent were promoted to a higher position in their previous institution,
40% reported that they had changed to a better job, while the other 10% reported that they had improved the
management of their own farms.

It is also clear that the project has had a significant indirect impact on the quality of research conducted at the
University of Guayaquil, the Polytechnic School, and INIAP. This has strengthened the capacity to generate
innovations that are transferred to farmers.

Costs of the education alliance reached $973,380, including all contributions (Table 13). As mentioned above, it is
difficult to precisely calculate project benefits. However if the 87 enrolled students graduate as well as the 4
professors that received advanced degrees, the cost per graduate of $11,588. This is a modest investment for
producing an M.S. graduate according to international standards.

Table 3f. Costs of the Education Alliance (PROMSA and counterparts)
            Phase                   PROMSA                   Counterpart                   Total
            Initial                  497,380                   360,000                   857,380
           Second                     36,000                    80,000                   116,000
             Total                   533,380                   440,000                   973,380

Other impacts of the Project were: (a) New Institutional linkages: One impact of the project is the signing of a
new agreement with the University of las Islas Vallares, to conduct a course in Guayaquil on certification of
organic production methods for 45 participants; (b) Upgraded equipment: The Project funded the purchase of 27
networked computers with internet access. A classroom was equipped with audiovisual equipment. A "virtual
library" was established as well as a special library on sustainable agriculture using books purchased through the
project. This equipment will continue to be used in conducting the M.S. in Sustainable Tropical Agriculture
program; and (c) Institutional impacts: The implementation of the Master in Sustainable Tropical Agriculture
program has increased the capacity of the University of Guayaquil to generate technology, as well as increasing its
scientific and academic capacity.




                                                        - 23 -

Case 5: Processing Flours and Pastas
Project Title: Research and Development of New Nutritious Alternatives for Human Consumption from Banana,
Plantain and Quinoa

This case is unusual in the sense that the research objective is to increase external demand for primary products of
the agricultual sector. Therefore, the research will only have an indirect effect on the target group. The hope is that
benefiaries will experience a significant increase in demand for their products once the processing plants are
operating.
The economic analysis focuses on the potential profitability of producing (a) plantain flour and (b) quinoa noodles.

(a) Plantain Flour: The economic feasibility of pre-cooked plantain flour production is based on the following
characteristics and assumptions:
Installed Capacity: 50 ton/year (200 Kg/day)
Number of workers: 14 workers per shift of 6 hours/day; 250 days per year
Location: Recinto el Deseo, 9 Km from La Maná
Materials required for production: 1st Year: 36 tons; Full Capacity: 50 tons/yr
Variety: Plantain Dominico
Maturity Grade: Grade 2 in the Dole color scale. (3 to 4 months after flowering)
Investment: Total: $ 38,800; Machinery: $ 23,000; Buildings: $ 5,500; Other assets: $ 2,300; Working Capital:
$ 8,000

Given these parameters and the annual cost and benefit flows, the financial indicators are summarized in the Table
3g.

Table 3g. Financial indicators for investment in a processing plant for plantain flour
                              Without additional          With additional financing
                                    financing
Net present value                      39.8                          12,883
Benefit/cost                            1.0                            5.3
IRR                                   18.0%                         150.56%
Pay-back                            3.2 years                       0.62 años

According to these rough calculations, the investment in a processing plant is profitable with or without access to
outside credit.

(b) Quinoa pasta: It has not been possible to obtain detailed data on the quinoa pasta, partly due to the need of the
private sector partner to maintain secrecy about a potential new product that is under patent. Information gathered
by ESPOL indicates that the production of the quinoa pasta will be profitable for producers, processors and
exporters. The identified market niche for this product is in Europe, mainly France, for people who are allergic to
gluten. The industry believes that it can offer this product at an FOB Guayaquil price of US $1,580/ton. The largest
cost component is for the raw materials (quinoa) that with projected price between US $800 to US $960 per ton for
organic quinoa. Transport to France is US $270 for a price in France of US $1,850 per ton of quinoa pasta. This
compares to an existing European price of US $15,150 per ton for gluten-free pasta.

In summary, although both technologies (plantain flour and quinoa noodles) are at an early development stage,
they each show good potential for private profitability that would allow the development of a processing industry.
In the case of the quinoa, the industry has the attraction of being a native Andean product, with a potential
comparative advantage based on the genetic diversity and the trademark protection based on product origin.

 Other impacts of the Project were: (a) Environmental. Although the plantain flour processing plant will
necessarily produce some polluting emissions, these can be controlled easily: (i) CO2 emissions from the use of
GLP are not of a magnitude to produce significant contamination in the region and (ii) Detergent and chlorine
residuals discharged into the rivers will require close monitoring. Banana husks will be able to be used to prepare



                                                         - 24 -

organic fertilizers; (b) Employment. The plants will boost local employment and farm demand will be increased
for the crops from around 2800 small organic producers; and (c) New Institutional linkages. New agreements
were enacted with the Technological University of Equinoccial for the preparation of new recipes, and an
agreement was signed with the GTZ of Germany.




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/02/1994/               5    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (4)
              02/06/1995                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/24/1995                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/02/1996                ?    TASK MANAGER (1);


 Supervision

              05/31/1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIAL (1)
              09/26/1997                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              03/17/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIAL (1)
              02/10/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)
              08/12/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/02/2000                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL ANALYST
                                             (1)
              10/03/2001                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALI
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); PROJECT SPECIALIST (1)
              07/26/2002                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC
                                             (1); PROJECT MGT (1)
              02/06/2003                3    LEAD AGRICULTURIST(TTL           S               S
                                             (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/AGRICULTUR.
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              11/21/2003                5    LEAD AGRICULTURIST/TTL           S               S
                                             (1); JR PROFESSIONAL
                                             OFFICE (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/FIN. SPECIA
                                             (1); CONSULTANT/ AG.



                                              - 26 -

                                           ECONOM (1); CONSULTANT
                                           IP (1)

 ICR
               06/18/2004             4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                            SENIOR OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1)
               01/10/2005             4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               9                            27
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    3                             9
  Supervision                          70.86                         232.6
  ICR                                   7.07                            37
  Total                                78.55                         305.6




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Borrower's ICR Report, Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, November 2005
World Bank CAS Report for Ecuador, No. 25817-EC, May 2003
World Bank Staff Appraisal Report No. 14702-EC, May 1996
Loan Agreement, Loan Number 4075-EC, March 18, 1997
World Bank Supervision Reports, Aide memoires, and Back to office reports (BTOR)
World Bank Case Studies: Economic Impact of Projects and Aliances by Greg Traxler, November 2005
Programa de Modernizacion de los Servicios Agropecuarios-PROMSA. 2005. Oferta technologica para cadenas
agroalimentarias, Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, Fondo competitivo de investigacion, Quito, Ecuador,
Mayo 2005. 203 paginas.




                                                    - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report


Evaluación del Objetivo de desarrollo, diseño y la calidad al inicio


Las reformas de política agraria impulsadas por el gobierno que se instaló en 1992 se basaron en: la eliminación de
los controles de precios y de la intervención a través de empresas agropecuarias estatales; el manejo sustentable de
los recursos naturales de tierras y aguas, con un mayor énfasis en su asignación por el mercado, conservando un
papel normativo y regulatorio por parte del Estado; impulso a los derechos privados de propiedad en el mercado de
tierras y la reorganización institucional del sector público agropecuario.

En este marco de políticas agrarias y en el área de ciencia y tecnología, el gobierno aprobó el Programa de
Modernización de los Servicios Agropecuarios, PROMSA, con financiamiento del BIRF y del BID con
componentes de investigación, transferencia de tecnología y sanidad agropecuaria.                 El componente de
investigación agropecuaria ha sido financiado por el Banco Mundial a través del préstamo 4075-EC que fue
suscrito el 16 de junio de 1997 y se hizo efectivo el 16 de octubre del mismo año.

La propuesta de proyecto inicial del Fondo Competitivo fue diseñada para que sea diverso, transparente, con un
mandato técnico de amplia cobertura y orientado a la demanda. Para su puesta en marcha se dividió en proyectos
de investigación y alianzas estratégicas internacionales de investigación y educación, se debían realizar llamadas a
concursos para cada clase, la duración de los proyectos fue de 3 años como máximo, con límites de financiamiento
y con requerimientos máximos de contraparte de los proveedores que representaba el 30%. La respuesta final de
los investigadores fue mucho más allá de lo esperado, lo que demuestra que el diseño inicial, que tuvo algunas
modificaciones en la ejecución, fue exitoso en cuanto a los objetivos y características originales.

Los grandes temas que han sido ajustados se refieren a las prioridades en rubros que inicialmente fueron
establecidos por el Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería en 30, que posteriormente fueron revisados por los
actores llegando a 18 rubros; también fueron revisadas las áreas temáticas. Se establecieron algunos vínculos entre
investigación ­ extensión, se integró el manejo técnico y financiero en la última parte del proyecto y se fortaleció el
sistema de monitoreo y evaluación del Fondo Competitivo en cuanto a la calidad de los proyectos.

Aunque el objetivo de desarrollo del proyecto no ha sido modificado en toda su operación y a pesar de los avances
que se han alcanzado, continúa siendo importante el "fortalecimiento de la capacidad nacional para generar
tecnología con el fin de mejorar la productividad agropecuaria, mientras se preserven o mejoren los recursos
naturales del país".

Los objetivos principales son, en primer lugar, instalar un nuevo sistema de generación de tecnología agropecuaria
en el Ecuador que sea diversificado, interactivo, competitivo y sostenible. En segundo lugar, mejorar la eficiencia
y efectividad de asignación y utilización de recursos humanos y financieros para investigación agropecuaria. Estos
propósitos se han logrado a través de establecer un fondo competitivo para proyectos de investigación agropecuaria
y para alianzas estratégicas internacionales en investigación y educación.

En los objetivos iniciales, todas las alianzas estratégicas internacionales debían tener elementos tanto de educación
de postgrado como de investigación. Estas debían fortalecer la capacidad del Ecuador para hacer investigación
agropecuaria.     Los aliados del exterior son necesarios para traer metodologías y conocimientos sobre la
investigación que el país no disponía. Debían ser centros de excelencia en la temática de la alianza y estar
dispuestos a contribuir con tiempo de su personal u otros aportes como contraparte al Proyecto.

A la terminación de este proyecto se ha construido un sistema moderno de generación de tecnología que se
caracteriza, como estaba previsto, por su diversidad, interactividad y su sostenibilidad. La diversidad se refleja en
un mayor número de proveedores de tecnología para el sector agrícola y en un mayor aporte de recursos de fuentes
que normalmente no participaban en el sistema de generación. La interactividad se comprueba con el mejor




                                                         - 31 -

aprovechamiento de los recursos ya existentes en el sector, que han rebasado en forma significativa las metas de
aportes de contraparte nacional. La sostenibilidad se encuentra en el normal funcionamiento del fondo competitivo
y las alianzas estratégicas, incluso con la experiencia actual, algunas universidades han creado sus propios fondos
competitivos.

El otro componente del diseño del proyecto fue el Fortalecimiento al INIAP, que en su desarrollo se ha mantenido
con sus cuatro subcomponentes: a) provisión de becas para personal seleccionado del INIAP; b) provisión de
asistencia técnica al INIAP a cargo de científicos ecuatorianos y extranjeros en áreas prioritarias de investigación;
c) rehabilitación y modernización de las estaciones de investigación del INIAP; y, d) implementación de un plan de
desarrollo para la sostenibilidad a largo plazo del INIAP.

Los resultados de este componente han sido asimétricos, la provisión de becas y la rehabilitación de estaciones de
investigación a través de obras de infraestructura y adquisición de vehículos y maquinarias han tenido un
cumplimiento altamente satisfactorio y en coherencia con el objetivo de mejorar los recursos para la investigación.
No sucedió lo mismo con la contratación de consultores científicos para el INIAP, por la oposición del personal
ejecutivo de la institución. Tampoco se cumplió con el plan de desarrollo institucional del INIAP, que por efectos
de la fuerte devaluación implantada en el país en 1999, dejó el presupuesto del plan sin fuentes ciertas de recursos
monetarios, además, de la poca voluntad de los ejecutivos en cumplirlo.

A la terminación del programa, las estaciones del INIAP están dotadas de una renovada y modernizada
infraestructura básica como construcciones, luz eléctrica, agua potable, alcantarillado, que estaban al borde del
colapso antes del proyecto. También se ha dotado con un parque automotor y de maquinaria para el desarrollo de
los proyectos de la institución.

El activo más importante (que es el personal) ha recibido una capacitación selectiva y de calidad a futuro,
dependerá de la institución y de sus ejecutivos, de su eficiente organización y funcionamiento sobre la base de
planes reales de desarrollo de mediano plazo.

Para la operación del programa el Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería, como se había previsto en el diseño, se
estableció una unidad administrativa denominada Unidad de Implementación del Proyecto (UIP). El Ministerio de
Agricultura y Ganadería y esta unidad mediante una licitación internacional, adjudicó el contrato a la consultora
inglesa Natural Resources International ­ NRI para que ejecute el fondo competitivo de investigación y el
componente de becas del INIAP. Se suscribió el contrato el 18 de noviembre de 1998 con una duración de 4 años a
partir del 4 de enero de 1999, por lo tanto, el período de ejecución finalizó el 3 de enero de 2003. Su desempeño se
concentró en construir los mecanismos operativos del fondo y luego ejecutarlo a través de tres llamadas a
convocatorias para la presentación de propuestas y posterior selección y operación de 108 proyectos y 13 alianzas
internacionales de las cuales siete son de investigación y seis de educación, que concluyeron con éxito en enero del
2005, porque el programa recibió una ampliación de un año, es decir, hasta enero del 2005 para completar los
planes de investigación y difusión de los proyectos y alianzas cuyos productos se describen en el presente informe.

En el diseño global del componente no han existido modificaciones significativas; han habido aspectos que
contribuyen al éxito del proyecto y son: haber previsto la contratación de una firma consultora privada para la
ejecución del componente de generación de tecnología; plantear el establecimiento de un fondo competitivo con
reglas claras para su ejecución; establecer la unidad de implementación del programa (UIP) con personal técnico
seleccionado por concurso lo que ha dado estabilidad, especialmente desde el año 2000 y la previsión de establecer
un sistema de monitoreo y evaluación.

Un aspecto que ha limitado la ejecución y que fue previsto en el diseño, ha sido la separación de las funciones
técnicas a cargo de la firma consultora privada y las funciones financieras ejecutadas por la UIP. Esta situación se
solucionó a partir del año 2003, en que la UIP unificó las dos áreas por la terminación del contrato con la
consultora privada NRI. Otro limitante del programa fue la conformación del Consejo Directivo integrado por seis
representantes públicos y privados, que por la falta de quórum no alcanzaron a reunirse en forma frecuente. En
agosto del 2001, se modificó el Consejo Directivo con tres miembros, uno del sector público y dos del sector
privado. A pesar de las reformas, el funcionamiento del directorio fue anormal, se efectuaron muy pocas sesiones y


                                                         - 32 -

en consecuencia, no aportó para la buena marcha del PROMSA.

A nivel de todo el programa, la articulación entre los componentes de generación de tecnología (GTA) y los de
Transferencia de Tecnología (TTA) y Sanidad Agropecuaria (SA) fue muy leve. Esto puede haberse debido a una
falla de diseño o porque los componentes de transferencia de tecnología agropecuaria y sanidad agropecuaria
tuvieron otra fuente de financiamiento.

En el área de capacitación para los investigadores, el diseño se limitó solo a profesionales del INIAP sin dar
oportunidades al personal de las otras instituciones proveedoras de investigación dentro del Fondo Competitivo.

Finalmente, en el diseño inicial del proyecto no se estableció la institucionalización del Fondo Competitivo lo que
impidió la continuación de sus actividades. Esta ha sido una inquietud constante del programa y del banco sin
haberse concretado la realización del estudio y su implementación.

Logro del objetivo y productos


El Fondo Competitivo de proyectos y alianzas

En países como el Ecuador, la inversión en innovación agropecuaria ha sido muy baja en relación al producto
nacional bruto agrícola.       Sin embargo, por los procesos de globalización el sector agropecuario debe
necesariamente competir con productos de otros países, entonces, la importancia de proyectos como el PROMSA
son prioritarios en el desarrollo de las políticas agrícolas.

El Fondo Competitivo es un nuevo mecanismo de participación institucional para la innovación tecnológica en el
país, como resultado de su implantación se ha ampliado en forma significativa el número de actores, pues, se han
involucrado alrededor de 43 entidades nacionales investigadoras distribuidas en todo el país y 20 instituciones
internacionales (universidades, centros de investigación, ONG, empresas privadas, gremios de productores) que
han cofinanciado sus respectivos proyectos de investigación o educación, con un promedio del 48% de la inversión
en el portafolio total de los proyectos, porcentaje que rebasa la meta inicial del aporte de contraparte de las
instituciones colaboradoras (30%).

El proceso de selección del Fondo Competitivo tiene dos etapas. La primera, los proveedores potenciales envían
perfiles de proyectos en respuesta a una convocatoria pública. La Unidad Ejecutora del Fondo Competitivo ­
UEFC organiza la evaluación a través de un panel anónimo de personas conocedoras de agricultura, especialmente
científicos.  La segunda, se invita a los perfiles seleccionados que tengan suficiente calidad y relevancia
(típicamente 15 ­ 25%) a preparar como proyectos, los cuales son nuevamente evaluados por el panel anónimo,
que recomendará a la UIP del PROMSA la contratación de aquellos proyectos y alianzas que cumplan con todos los
requisitos.

Al finalizar el préstamo se puede indicar que hay varios elementos que han coadyuvado con la transparencia del
proceso, lo más importante es el anonimato del panel, que permite hacer un trabajo sin interferencia ni temor. El
proceso y el panel se fundamentan en las bases del concurso y los criterios de selección que son publicados en la
prensa nacional; las fechas y horas límite de las convocatorias han sido observadas estrictamente. En los muy
pocos casos en que se intentó influenciar las decisiones, no se tuvo éxito ya que se contó con el apoyo de las
autoridades del Ministerio de Agricultura al proceso de selección.

Este proceso fue cumplido en seis concursos (tres convocatorias para proyectos de investigación y tres para alianzas
estratégicas internacionales) que se llevaron a cabo en 1999, 2000 y 2001.

Los resultados de las tres llamadas se pueden calificar de satisfactorios porque se presentaron 802 perfiles de
proyectos y alianzas que luego de un proceso competitivo se seleccionaron 108 proyectos de investigación y 13
alianzas estratégicas, (siete de investigación y seis de educación). Estos productos en su mayor parte rebasaron a
las metas establecidas en el Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) y a los indicadores de evaluación acordados en la MMT



                                                          - 33 -

de enero del 2001.

La confianza lograda en el sistema del fondo competitivo por parte de todos los proveedores de servicios de
investigación fue alta, la tasa de reclamos sobre las decisiones del panel fue inferior al 1%.

En el proceso de desarrollo de los proyectos se fortaleció la calidad de la investigación a través de 51 seminarios y
talleres de apoyo contínuo de los oficiales de proyectos a los investigadores y a los grupos meta y a la exigencia de
calidad y cumplimiento de metas exigido por un sistema de monitoreo y evaluación que ha sido construido
basándose en conceptos y elementos prácticos, respaldado en bases de datos e informes gerenciales, accesibles
permanentemente a las autoridades del PROMSA y con un mecanismo para identificar proyectos problema.

El fondo competitivo se ha orientado por principios y estrategias como: el fortalecimiento de la investigación
participativa, con prioridad dirigido a la agricultura de pequeña escala en la que los beneficiarios colaboran en la
idea, trabajan en la experimentación y serán quienes recojan y apliquen directamente los resultados de la
investigación. La selección de proyectos que no degraden el ambiente y en algunos casos que lo mejoren. La
implementación práctica de los conceptos de género en la investigación agropecuaria y la incorporación de varias
instituciones jóvenes o algunas de larga trayectoria pero que no tenían tradición en la investigación.

Los resultados tecnológicos e institucionales del portafolio de proyectos han sido exitosos y han rebasado los
indicadores fijados en el SAR y en las metas de la MMT. El número de proyectos que involucran investigación
aplicada alcanzó 111 mientras el SAR lo estableció en 10. También se han desarrollado 38 proyectos que
involucran investigación básica. Una demostración de que algunos indicadores fueron cumplidos en forma muy
satisfactoria, está en el tema de proyectos financiados en agricultura de pequeña escala, el SAR estableció 15
proyectos, la MMT 12 proyectos, pero se han cumplido con 64 proyectos que representan el 533% del indicador de
medio término.

En cuanto al número de áreas temáticas prioritarias, el SAR estableció cinco áreas. El resultado final fue que el
portafolio atendió a 11 áreas prioritarias, lo que incluye a varias áreas que no estaban previstas inicialmente como
es el caso de la agroforestería, la agroindustria, el manejo de recursos genéticos vegetales, mercadeo y
comercialización, producción animal y salud ocupacional.

La lista de 30 rubros divididos en tres niveles de prioridad que aparecen en el SAR fue el punto de partida para un
análisis de prioridades. Por medio de técnicas participativas se logró identificar combinaciones prioritarias de 18
rubros y 11 áreas temáticas. Al final del proyecto sólo nueve de 108 proyectos de investigación se adjudicaron
fuera de los rubros prioritarios. Por otra parte, la quínua es el único rubro prioritario no cubierto por algún
proyecto. Sin embargo, fue incluido en una alianza internacional. El valor utilizado en estos nueve proyectos
representa un 5% del total del Fondo Competitivo.

Un mecanismo innovador fue el establecimiento de los "grupos de referencia" para cada proyecto, que lo
constituyen un grupo de personas (entre cuatro y ocho) nombradas por el investigador principal, quienes
representan a varios sectores directamente interesados en los resultados/productos del Proyecto y quienes debían
poseer la capacidad de acompañar y apoyar la ejecución, monitoreo y evaluación del Proyecto durante la vida de
éste. Específicamente apoyar en la caracterización del grupo meta, en el contacto con el grupo meta a través de
uno o más representantes, en la revisión periódica del avance del Proyecto, en la vinculación con el sistema de
transferencia de tecnología a través de un agente de asistencia técnica del componente de transferencia de
tecnología que actuaba como miembro del grupo y en la evaluación final del Proyecto. A la finalización del fondo
competitivo, se pueden citar pocos ejemplos de grupos de referencia muy efectivos, entre estos, los proyectos de
café con la COFENAC y el INIAP. Un área donde no operaron los grupos de referencia, fue en la evaluación final.
La UEFC, al evaluar los primeros proyectos que finalizaron su ejecución, encontró que algunos de sus miembros
no estaban capacitados para apoyar un proceso complejo, porque en algunos casos podían estar actuando como juez
y parte.    La contribución de este importante mecanismo al portafolio de proyectos no ha sido evaluada
suficientemente.

Las alianzas estratégicas internacionales de educación han tenido un resultado satisfactorio, así, se han adjudicado


                                                        - 34 -

43 títulos de maestría por parte de las instituciones nacionales y dos por instituciones internacionales. Se han
diplomado 150 profesionales. Se han concedido 97 becas para educación y se han preparado 97 tesis. En el SAR
no se establecieron indicadores para las alianzas de educación.

A pesar de los logros alcanzados se puede indicar que desde el inicio del proceso la oferta de alianzas estratégicas
internacionales de suficiente calidad ha sido inferior a la esperada. Este resultado se debió a varias razones: la
falta de una verdadera alianza por la parte internacional en el sentido de que sus aportes eran muy puntuales (venta
de semillas, provisión de algún curso en el exterior, etc.) en lugar de constituir una verdadera relación de socios y
por eso se asemejaba a un contrato de asistencia técnica; la falta de proyección de la alianza hacia una relación
científica más madura después de los tres años del PROMSA; los presupuestos de inversión sumamente
sobredimensionados para proyectos relativamente sencillos.

En el proceso de ejecución en dos alianzas, las universidades europeas colaboraron con genuino interés. También
tuvieron una colaboración destacada en otras alianzas los centros internacionales de investigación como el CIAT,
el CIP, el CIMMYT y el CATIE.

El papel de otras instituciones internacionales no fue de trascendencia, pues la alianza constó sólo en los
documentos de la propuesta. La Universidad de Florida y la Universidad Estatal de Oregón constaban como
aliadas internacionales de dos alianzas pero su aporte fue insignificante o inexistente. La Universidad de Texas A
& M no actuó como se esperaba de un aliado, más bien proporcionó servicios de consultoría y enseñanza a costos
elevados, razón por la cual fue reemplazada por la Universidad Estatal de Kansas.                La colaboración de
universidades y centros de investigación de Israel como socios de tres alianzas no fue como se esperaba, pues en
una sola alianza se concretó una visita en la que se hicieron recomendaciones muy generales.

A pesar de los comentarios anteriores, las alianzas de educación han dado un aporte importante. Sin embargo, hay
mucho espacio para mejorar. Los programas de educación generados alrededor de las alianzas deben cumplir
estándares de mayor calidad.

Los productos alcanzados en los 108 proyectos de investigación y 13 alianzas estratégicas llegaron a 1,455 entre
informes, libros, artículos, boletines técnicos, tesis, boletines divulgativos, plegables, revistas, videos, bases de
datos, mapas y otros que reflejan las tecnologías generadas, los conocimientos investigados o nuevas metodologías
desarrolladas para la investigación de algunos rubros agropecuarios.

El proceso de cierre de proyectos de investigación y alianzas estratégicas internacionales vincularon aspectos
técnicos, financieros y de gestión. La metodología de evaluación consistió en un formato con variables técnicas y
de gestión, que se entregaba a un revisor externo (en el caso de las alianzas estratégicas de investigación se
utilizaron dos revisores externos) y a un oficial de proyectos del PROMSA. Luego de realizada la evaluación
externa, que consistía en reuniones de presentación de los resultados de los proyectos y análisis y discusión de
éstos, los evaluadores se reunían para revisar sus calificaciones y fijar la calificación final del Proyecto. Esta
metodología sufrió alguna alteración asignando la evaluación técnica al revisor externo y la evaluación de gestión
gerencial al oficial de proyectos del PROMSA. Cabe indicar que los evaluadores, a más de llenar los formularios
de calificación, debían sustentar las calificaciones y emitir su opinión sobre el Proyecto. Los resultados de las
evaluaciones externas finales indican que el 11.6% del portafolio de proyectos y alianzas alcanzó la calificación de
muy satisfactorio; el 65.3% satisfactorio, el 22.3% medianamente satisfactorio y el 0.8% insatisfactorio que
corresponde a un sólo proyecto, que después mejoró alcanzando la calificación de satisfactorio.

Fortalecimiento del INIAP

Un instrumento principal para el fortalecimiento del INIAP fue la implementación del cumplimiento y Plan de
Desarrollo 1998 ­ 2002, elaborado por la institución con el apoyo de consultores externos. En este documento se
examinan las prioridades de investigación del INIAP y los recursos humanos, físicos y financieros requeridos para
alcanzar estas prioridades y para modernizar el INIAP y la manera como se propone interactuar con otras
instituciones conduciendo la investigación en el Ecuador. En el penúltimo capítulo del plan se discuten las
implicaciones de niveles de financiamiento por encima y/o por debajo de las metas planteadas. El plan establecía


                                                        - 35 -

que el presupuesto requerido debería establecerse en el futuro en función de la demanda de tecnologías y servicios
en lugar de la oferta financiera. En el capítulo final se establecieron indicadores medibles del progreso en el
cumplimiento del plan. Para el desarrollo del plan, el PROMSA debía contratar investigadores nacionales e
internacionales para apoyar al proceso de cambio institucional.

En el diseño del Proyecto se estableció cuatro componentes para fortalecer el INIAP.

a) Provisión de becas para personal del INIAP

La administración técnica y financiera de las becas se encargó a Natural Resources International ­ NRI. Esta
consultora diseñó e implementó los procesos para la selección, apoyo, monitoreo y evaluación de becarios. La
selección ha estado a cargo de un panel de educación y becas de tres miembros ecuatorianos con experiencia,
conocimiento de la educación de postgrado y excelente reputación. Se dieron tres convocatorias, dos en 1999 y
otra en marzo del 2000. Como resultado de las convocatorias se preseleccionaron 83 candidatos. El panel
cuestionó la poca participación de mujeres como candidatas.

Al concluir el Proyecto, se puede decir que se ha mejorado la base científica del INIAP al haberse otorgado con
recursos del préstamo 46 oportunidades de estudio a nivel de postgrado de los cuales dos con estudios de doctorado
(este reducido número se debe a dos limitaciones, la estructura de la edad del personal del INIAP, y el nivel
insuficiente del inglés), 24 maestrías y en 20 cursos cortos en el exterior.       Para la administración de este
subcomponente se conformó bases de datos con información relevante de cada becario y su desenvolvimiento como
estudiante y luego un seguimiento como funcionarios capacitados al servicio del INIAP. Como resultado de este
seguimiento, se puede indicar que el 100% ha mejorado su situación profesional, el 93.3% está trabajando en el
área en la que fueron capacitados, el 100% continúa laborando en el mismo puesto de trabajo que tenía antes de la
capacitación.

En relación al SAR y a los indicadores de medio término, se rebasaron en forma significativa 15 y 30 becas
respectivamente (153% en relación al medio término)

b) Provisión de asistencia técnica al INIAP a cargo de científicos ecuatorianos y extranjeros en áreas prioritarias de
investigación.

Este subcomponente no ha sido cumplido en su totalidad, las metas establecidas en el SAR de contratar hasta 22
científicos investigadores ecuatorianos, recibió una oposición institucional del personal y de los ejecutivos del
INIAP aduciendo que se crearía una desigualdad salarial que generaría desmotivación interna frente a los bajos
salarios pagados a los investigadores del INIAP.        Tampoco se cumplió con la contratación de científicos
internacionales para temas específicos de corto plazo. Los recursos presupuestados para estas actividades fueron
reprogramados en las sucesivas misiones del Banco que han visitado el país.

c) Rehabilitación y modernización de las estaciones experimentales del INIAP.

A pesar de que este subcomponente tuvo un inició problemático que fue normalizado y se cumplió en su ejecución
con el 100% de las metas establecidas en el diseño del proyecto, se realizaron los procesos de licitación pública y
concursos de cotizaciones en lo relacionado a las obras de acuerdo a las normas del Banco. Se contrató las obras
de readecuación de los sistemas de agua potable, alcantarillado sanitario y energía eléctrica en las estaciones
experimentales de Santa Catalina, Pichilingue, Boliche, Portoviejo, Santo domingo, Napo-Payamino y Chuquipata.
En todas se ha realizado la recepción definitiva en coordinación con el INIAP.

En el área de adquisición de bienes, el INIAP ha recibido equipos y maquinaria agrícola, equipos informáticos y
fotocopiadoras para las bibliotecas del INIAP, equipos de laboratorio y vehículos para las actividades de campo del
INIAP.

A la terminación de este proyecto, el INIAP está dotado de una moderna y suficiente infraestructura física en las
estaciones experimentales y con equipos modernos para el desarrollo de sus investigaciones.


                                                       - 36 -

d) Plan de desarrollo del INIAP

Este plan, que fue aprobado por la Junta Directiva el 6 de marzo de 1998, no ha sido cumplido en razón de que no
se llegó a contratar a los investigadores nacionales y científicos internacionales, por lo que en la MMT se reajustó
el componente. Este incumplimiento también se debió a que el presupuesto del INIAP quedó desfinanciado por
efectos de la fuerte devaluación que sufrió el país por la crisis económica de los años 1999 y 2000 más la poca o
ninguna voluntad de los ejecutivos de la institución de cumplir con el plan.

Para apoyar al INIAP, el PROMSA contrató una consultoría para diseñar un mecanismo de fortalecimiento del
INIAP a través del desarrollo de una corporación de derecho privado, sin fines de lucro, para que se transforme en
suministradora de recursos para el desarrollo de planes y programas del INIAP. Este trabajo, que fue presentado a
la Junta Directiva, no ha tenido ninguna respuesta de la Institución.

El PROMSA en el mes de agosto del 2004 contrató la elaboración de un Plan Emergente de Capacitación para el
INIAP que fue ejecutado a través de 17 cursos de capacitación. Se elaboró el Plan Estratégico 2005-2009, un plan
operativo y un plan directriz de capacitación, todos estos estudios con la participación activa de su propio personal

Actualmente el INIAP es una organización que responde a las prioridades de las décadas pasadas y más no a los
desafíos de la modernidad, de la competitividad y de la globalización. A pesar del apoyo que le ha brindado el
PROMSA en las áreas de capacitación, infraestructura, equipamiento, el INIAP tiene una organización muy
centralizada, no dispone de una estructura organizativa que responda a los cambios en las demandas de la
innovación tecnológica moderna ni de fuentes suficientes para financiar las investigaciones futuras.

Coordinación del Proyecto

La Unidad de Implementación del Programa (UIP) fue creada por Acuerdo Ministerial No. 023 de 24 de enero de
1996 y modificada con el Acuerdo No. 242 publicado en el Registro Oficial el 21 de agosto de 2001. Esta Unidad
fue estructurada para coordinar y supervisar todas las actividades de los dos contratos de préstamo.

Ejecución financiera

El presupuesto inicial fue de US$ 27.000.000, de los cuales US$ 21.000.000 correspondían a recursos del
Préstamo, US$ 2.900.000 a aportes de investigadores y US$ 3.100.000 a la contraparte del Gobierno. En la MMT
se decidió cancelar US$ 1.200.000 con lo cual el presupuesto vigente es de US$ 25.800.000.

La ejecución total del Proyecto al 31 de enero de 2005 es de US$ 28.894.933, equivalentes al 107.02% del
presupuesto inicial. Los recursos del BIRF han sido ejecutados en el 82.72% respecto al valor inicial. Los aportes
de los ejecutores tuvieron un nivel muy superior a lo programado, con un porcentajes del 336% con relación al
monto original; la ejecución de los recursos del Gobierno también es superior al presupuesto inicial, con un
porcentaje del 57%.

Principales factores que afectan la implementación y Resultados


Factores generalmente sujetos al control por el gobierno.- La inestabilidad de los ministros de agricultura (ocho
ministros titulares y varios encargados) ha influido en forma negativa en el Proyecto, la falta de decisiones
oportunas, el apoyo tardío para la consecución de la contraparte local y el significativo tiempo que han debido
pasar los directores ejecutivos para explicar el proyecto a las nuevas autoridades.               Dentro del Proyecto,
especialmente en su primera etapa hasta finales del año 2000, hubo una gran inestabilidad en la dirección ejecutiva
(tres directores ejecutivos titulares y dos encargados), se estabilizó a partir de finales del 2000 hasta su terminación
con un solo director ejecutivo, lo que trajo como consecuencia un avance significativo en el cumplimiento de las
metas y objetivos programados. Similar situación tuvo el INIAP pues desde 1998 ha sido dirigido por cuatro
directores generales de los cuales sólo dos fueron titulares.



                                                         - 37 -

Por la crisis bancaria de 1999 el país sufrió una fuerte devaluación (de 5.000 sucres a 25.000 sucres por dólar) que
afectó al presupuesto nacional que se reflejó en una incapacidad temporal de entregar recursos nacionales de
contraparte que limitaron el desarrollo normal del PROMSA, de los proyectos de investigación y del Plan de
Desarrollo del INIAP.

Factores generalmente sujetos al control de la agencia ejecutora.- Existió demora en la contratación de la firma
consultora, lo cual afectó la normal ejecución del Proyecto.          Hasta el año 2000 hubo serios retrasos de
incumplimiento de objetivos y metas, debido a problemas de gerencia del Proyecto, asignación de contraparte local
y los cambios políticos que sufrió el país. Hasta ese año el ritmo de desembolsos fue muy lento, teniendo
desembolsado tan sólo un 18% del total en los tres primeros años lo que ocasionó un alto pago de comisión de
compromiso.

Una fuerte falencia del Proyecto ha sido la falta de un Consejo Directivo efectivo que pudo haber aportado
positivamente con políticas en la marcha del PROMSA, para esto hubiera sido necesario un mayor apoyo del
Ministro de Agricultura y Ganadería.

A los inicios del Proyecto y a nivel de las instituciones investigadoras del sector público y privado, se dieron varios
retrasos especialmente en la ejecución presupuestaria, en razón de que se estaba construyendo un fondo competitivo
con una normatividad para la que no habían estado preparados, lo cual luego se solucionó con programas de
capacitación y monitoreo financiero.

Uno de los aspectos que resultó un limitante fue la poca preparación de los investigadores en la gerencia de sus
proyectos puesto que no habían sido capacitados en técnicas de gestión de proyectos. Al final una buena parte de
ellos habían asimilado, por lo menos, las técnicas básicas de administración y gerencia por un esfuerzo de
capacitación por parte del Proyecto.

Dentro del Proyecto, en sus primeros años la disposición establecida de que NRI atienda la parte técnica y la UIP
del Proyecto la parte financiera, fue un limitante importante que luego se solucionó con una coordinación de
reparto claro de funciones.

Un elemento positivo y que sirvió para atenuar, especialmente la inestabilidad política, fue la contratación de la
consultora privada Natural Resources International NRI que trabajó sin contratiempos en el cumplimiento de su
contrato.   Sin embargo, varios juicios de arbitraje y sus consecuencias posteriores deterioraron las buenas
relaciones entre la consultora y el PROMSA. Este es un elemento que está pendiente de decisión jurídica. Otro
factor interno importante desde el año 2001 ha sido la estabilidad del equipo de trabajo técnico, financiero y
administrativo, que fue seleccionado en su totalidad por procesos competitivos y que apoyó el cumplimiento de los
objetivos del Proyecto con su alta calidad técnica y humana.

Especial referencia se debe hacer del INIAP que ha tenido en su desempeño dentro del Fondo diferentes resultados,
desde excelentes investigadores y administradores que atendieron a sus proyectos en el área técnica, administrativa
y financiera (por tanto, sus productos han sido muy satisfactorios) hasta ciertos proyectos que han tenido serios
problemas técnicos administrativos y financieros y sus resultados han sido poco satisfactorios a pesar del apoyo
permanente de los oficiales del NRI y posteriormente de la UIP del PROMSA, varios investigadores del INIAP
aducieron su regular desempeño al reducido apoyo institucional.

Sostenibilidad


La sostenibilidad del Fondo Competitivo se puede establecer desde varios puntos de vista, en primer lugar por la
alta participación institucional reflejada por 43 entidades base, públicas y privadas; 115 investigadores principales
y 127 investigadores colaboradores. La participación de 14 universidades públicas y privadas, ha redundado en el
mejoramiento de la docencia, en el establecimiento de pequeños fondos competitivos al interior de varias
universidades, en las alianzas con algunas universidades internacionales que son verdaderos centros de excelencia



                                                         - 38 -

y en la formación de nuevos investigadores que continuarán en su labor en proyectos futuros.

La participación de las ONG han fortalecido los programas de investigación que en varios casos continuarán en el
futuro.   Por sus características la empresa privada desarrolló investigaciones de sus propios productos que
continuarán en el futuro. También han intervenido algunos gremios, que han sido directos beneficiarios de sus
proyectos de investigación.

El impacto del INIAP, especialmente para la sostenibilidad de varios proyectos, ha sido significativo porque a
través del programa se han rescatado e identificado buenos investigadores, la Institución dispone de equipo e
infraestructura para futuras investigaciones y ha gestionado recursos adicionales de varias fuentes nacionales e
internacionales, utilizando como apalancamiento los recursos del PROMSA.

Un segundo criterio para la sostenibilidad del Fondo Competitivo es la ampliación de la agenda de investigación
porque se incorporaron nuevas áreas temáticas, así en el SAR se estableció cinco áreas y se han ejecutado proyectos
en 11 áreas temáticas y 18 rubros prioritarios. Otro criterio importante es que en las prioridades del fondo se
incluyó el enfoque de cadenas agroalimentarias (recursos naturales, producción, agroindustria, mercadeo, salud
ocupacional). Además, las seis alianzas internacionales de educación establecidas continuarán capacitando a nivel
de postgrado (diplomados, maestrías).

Un tercer elemento para la sostenibilidad es la generación de recursos nuevos en reemplazo del PROMSA y la
implantación de fondos competitivos con la metodología desarrollada por el programa. La Universidad de Cuenca
ha convocado a cuatro (4) concursos, tiene cincuentaitres (53) proyectos de US$ 6.000 cada uno, con una duración
de tres años. La Universidad Técnica de Ambato tiene un mecanismo denominado Fondos Semilla, ha financiado
quince (15) proyectos de US$ 10.000 cada uno con una duración de dos años. La Universidad Agraria iniciará en
el año 2005 el Fondo Competitivo adjudicando proyectos hasta US$ 4.000.

Otros mecanismos que canalizan recursos para investigación futura son por ejemplo: la Escuela Politécnica de
Chimborazo (ESPOCH), por la experiencia con PROMSA creó una unidad especial para administrar todos lo
proyectos de cooperación de la institución.      El proyecto AQ-CV-003 sobre tecnología de microorganismos
benéficos, continúa vinculado al sector privado bananero que son los que actualmente los financian. El Concejo de
Educación Superior ­ CONESUP, ha formado un fondo para fomento de la investigación con un monto inicial de
US$ 1.000.000 y en el 2005, convocó a concurso para la ejecución de proyectos de investigación hasta US$ 50.000
cada uno con un financiamiento de hasta 75% del total del proyecto. CONACYT ­ FUNDACYT convocó a
concurso de 20 proyectos con un máximo de US$ 20.000 y cofinanciamiento del 20% de las instituciones
participantes. En la Escuela Politécnica Nacional ­ EPN, los proyectos agroindustriales continúan vinculados
directamente al CIRAD de Francia, incluyendo otros rubros de investigación. El proyecto IQ-CV-043 de la
Universidad Central del Ecuador continuará con las actividades de agroindustria de productos orgánicos. La
Universidad Agraria ha obtenido recursos externos para continuar con investigaciones en la península de Santa
Elena en coordinación con el CEDEGE.

En el INIAP, varios proyectos han obtenido financiamiento de otras fuentes para continuar con sus actividades, por
ejemplo, el proyecto IQ-CV-077 tiene fondos de FONTAGRO para continuar con investigaciones sobre
procesamiento de frutas (mango, guayaba, chirimoya), y la Fundación Mango que fue su grupo meta. Además, el
INIAP ha venido creando pequeños "Fondos Competitivos" con recursos provenientes de varias fuentes, tales
como: COSUDE, GTZ y PL-480.

Un cuarto elemento para la sostenibilidad del Fondo Competitivo del PROMSA es que existen todos los
instrumentos técnicos, legales y operativos y las experiencias necesarias en la aplicación de todo el proceso, que se
encuentra disponible y que algunas instituciones ya están utilizando.

En el tema de propiedad intelectual se han capacitado a varios investigadores con base a estudios de casos. Este es
un aspecto que necesita mayor atención en el futuro.

A la terminación del proyecto de investigación del PROMSA, queda una masa crítica, de instituciones públicas y


                                                       - 39 -

privadas con una buena coordinación entre ellas; más de un centenar de buenos investigadores agropecuarios, todos
los procesos probados para el funcionamiento de fondos competitivos con sus correspondientes mecanismos e
instrumentos operativos y un creciente número de pequeños fondos competitivos con la metodología PROMSA, así
como, varios proyectos que continúan en su ejecución que están captando recursos nacionales y extranjeros con
base a los resultados - productos obtenidos y a las perspectivas futuras de varias investigaciones realizadas.

Sería conveniente tener una organización pública o privada que institucionalice el Fondo Competitivo para
investigación en el sector agropecuario y que se convierta en la entidad coordinadora de las varias iniciativas de
sostenibilidad que se han establecido en el país.

La identificación de fuentes permanentes de recursos para el futuro deberá ser una actividad prioritaria de
cualquier mecanismo que apoye la generación de tecnología en el país para que se incremente la inversión que
hace el país en relación al PIB agrícola, que al terminar el PROMSA es de aproximadamente 0.75%. Al iniciar el
proyecto, esta relación fue de 0.36%.

Desempeño del Banco y del Prestatario

Banco

El MAG a través de la Unidad de Implementación del Proyecto (UIP) ha recibido desde el inicio de este Proyecto
un apoyo muy profesional del personal del Banco, especialmente en el área técnica y gerencial del oficial de
Proyecto asignado y de los profesionales encargados del área financiera y administrativa.

En términos generales, se puede decir que la supervisión ha sido permanente y de alta calidad técnica. Los
problemas de los tres primeros años fueron superados posteriormente con soluciones oportunas y bien diseñadas,
especialmente en las misiones de supervisión y en la revisión de medio término que estaban constituidas por
equipos técnicos de alto nivel, por lo que, se puede hablar que a partir del año 2001 se inició una segunda etapa del
PROMSA caracterizada por una buena coordinación entre el Banco y el Prestatario.

Prestatario

Como se mencionó anteriormente la formulación y preparación de este Proyecto fue resultado de la modernización
de las políticas macro económicas y sectoriales del gobierno que inició en 1992, por lo que, todas las actividades
previas a la contratación del préstamo recibieron un total apoyo de las autoridades sectoriales de turno. Sin
embargo, de la gran alternabilidad de presidentes de la república y ministros de agricultura, el Proyecto recibió el
apoyo de los ejecutivos de turno después de las debidas explicaciones de los alcances y objetivos del Proyecto.

Ha sido la UIP en coordinación con el Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería la que gerenció todas las actividades.
Esta Unidad trabajo eficazmente durante los primeros treinta meses de inicio del Proyecto, se cumplieron con todos
los requisitos previos a lograr desembolsos y el Proyecto se cimentó. Posteriormente, por cambios administrativos,
la UIP sufrió inestabilidad con varios administradores ejecutivos y finalmente se alcanzó un nuevo periodo de
estabilidad que permitió cumplir con los objetivos y resultados esperados en el Proyecto.

El INIAP como ejecutor de un componente no cumplió con el plan de fortalecimiento institucional, por lo que en la
MMT se resolvió reducir el presupuesto asignado para este componente.

En términos generales el resultado puede considerarse como satisfactorio en la duración del Proyecto, el cual en su
inicio cumplió con todos los procesos y requerimientos del prestatario, la planificación, las consultorías de igual
forma las licitaciones, y el concurso internacional para la administración del Fondo Competitivo se realizaron en
los dos primeros años de ejecución del Proyecto.




                                                       - 40 -

Impacto económico e institucional del Fondo Competitivo


Tomado del documento "Evaluación del Fondo Competitivo del Programa de Modernización de los Servicios
Agropecuarios ­ Reporte Final", capítulos 4 y 5. Preparado por Gustavo Sain y Greg Traxler. Enero 2005. Quito
­ Ecuador.


Lecciones aprendidas


A pesar de que el mecanismo de fondos competitivos es nuevo en el Ecuador y por primera vez se ha manejado a
gran escala, se demostró que es un mecanismo viable y que está siendo replicado por otras instituciones. En las
diversas presentaciones finales de los investigadores, se pudo conocer que muchas instituciones continuarán con el
desarrollo de sus proyectos con propio financiamiento, pero en un nivel limitado.

A pesar del cuidado en la selección y aprobación de perfiles de proyectos presentado al PROMSA (alrededor del
15% del total) el sistema no pudo detectar que una mayoría de proyectos requirieron de un fuerte apoyo técnico por
deficiencias científicas de los investigadores. Tampoco detectó substanciales fallas administrativas y financieras en
los equipos de apoyo dentro de las instituciones que requirieron que tanto la UEFC como la UIP realizaran un
gran esfuerzo, para cubrir estas deficiencias.

Aunque el fondo competitivo incentivó la colaboración interinstitucional a nivel local e internacional, en la
práctica no siempre se lograron buenos resultados, principalmente debido a la cultura en este campo. En cuanto a
la colaboración de entidades del exterior (alianzas estratégicas), esta dificultad se dió debido a la debilidad de los
acuerdos, que en algunos casos no pasaron de ser sino meras cartas de auspicio.

La administración técnica (UEFC) y la administración financiera (UIP) del Fondo Competitivo al estar separadas,
ocasionaron problemas de coordinación a lo largo de la ejecución de proyectos y alianzas. Se dieron discrepancias
en la interpretación y aplicación de las diversas regulaciones financieras que constaban, primero, en un manual
elaborado por la consultora; y luego, en otro elaborado por la UIP. Estas deficiencias fueron corregidas cuando la
administración total del Fondo Competitivo pasó a cargo de la UIP.

La separación de los procesos de generación de tecnología con los de transferencia tecnológica del PROMSA a
través de dos componentes, financiados con bancos diferentes, dio lugar a la falta de una adecuada interrelación.
La continuación del sistema debe contemplar la adecuada coordinación de las dos áreas de tal manera que se
retroalimenten.

Las investigaciones futuras deberán estar ajustadas a las prioridades del país tomando en cuenta las demandas de
los mercados locales e internacionales. A diferencia de la primera etapa del PROMSA, las bases de los concursos
futuros deberán ser más específicas, para resolver brechas tecnológicas en rubros prioritarios y de la cadena
agroalimentaria así como investigaciones en el campo agroeconómico.

El programa ha logrado generar tecnologías amigables al medio ambiente, tanto por la utilización de control
biológico dentro del manejo integrado de plagas como por la consecuente no utilización de pesticidas. En igual
forma, la generación de alternativas para bajar la presión sobre el bosque primario tropical, que está siendo
destruido aceleradamente en el país.

Por otra parte, entre los principales beneficiarios de los proyectos están los pequeños productores para quienes se
desarrollaron variedades y tecnologías apropiadas. Destacan los casos de papa, cebada y cuyes en donde se
lograron excelentes resultados gracias a la activa participación de los beneficiarios, principalmente las mujeres.
Son muy destacables los nuevos procesos agroindustriales generados para aumentar el valor agregado de productos
como el banano de rechazo, plátano, babaco, quinua, mango. Esto tiene la ventaja de que pueden generar ingresos
para los creadores de las tecnologías a través de la venta de patentes.




                                                        - 41 -

Los planes de difusión tienden a ser muy puntuales y el número de beneficiarios relativamente bajo. Se debería
diseñar métodos de difusión masivos para alcanzar a un número mayor de beneficiarios. Por ejemplo, el desarrollo
de variedades mejoradas debe estar acompañado de un plan adecuado de multiplicación y difusión de semillas.

Las instituciones participantes en el Fondo Competitivo han contribuido con recursos de contraparte en forma
significativa y sobrepasaron las estimaciones del diseño del proyecto.

Los aspectos sobre propiedad intelectual han sido débilmente cubiertos por el PROMSA. Es de gran importancia
que un nuevo sistema de innovación tecnológica defina una política al respecto, a fin de que el Fondo Competitivo
y las entidades proveedoras de servicios de innovación cuenten con los incentivos necesarios para hacer inversiones
para generar nuevas tecnologías o productos sujetos a apropiación comercial para aprovechar los recursos
obtenidos para retroalimentar los fondos de investigación.

El apoyo brindado por el PROMSA al INIAP no ha sido suficiente para que se modernice en sus estructuras en
razón de que el ambiente laboral y humano no ha sido cambiado, los cuadros gerenciales no han tenido la decisión
de modificar las estructuras institucionales, además, su autonomía se ha visto disminuida por efecto de la ley de
presupuesto.

Una de las tareas más importantes en el futuro debería ser el consolidar, utilizando la valiosa experiencia del
Fondo Competitivo del PROMSA, un sistema sostenible de investigación agropecuaria que esté acorde con las
necesidades del país y con el sector agropecuario y que enfrente problemas de competitividad, pobreza y pérdida de
recursos naturales y que disponga de fuentes permanentes de recursos para apoyar la innovación agrícola del
Ecuador.




                                                       - 42 -

- 43 -

                   81°                                              80°                                       79°                                       78°                                   77°                                           76°

                                                                                                         San Lorenzo




          1°                                                        ESMERALDAS                                                                                                                                                                                         1°
                                                                                                                Rio                                                                              C O L O M B I A
                                                                                                                   San
                                                                                         Rio
                                                                                                                                                         TULCÁN
                                                                                                                    Miguel                      CARCHI
                                                                                            Esmeraldas
                    P A C I F I C                                                                  ESMERALDAS


                                                                                                                                IMBABURA                             Bonita
                       O C E A N                                                 Rosa Zárate                      LA PRADERA                        IBARRA

                                                                                                                                               Otavalo                                                                  R i o    S a n

                                                                                                                                                                                        Lago Agrio S  U                                 M i g u e l
                                                                                                                                                                                                          C   U M           Puerto el Carmen
                                                                                                                                                 Cayambe                                                                  I de Putumayo                                0°
          0°                                                                                                    PICHINCHA                                                                                           B         O
                                                                                                                                              TUMBACO                                                                                S

                                                                                                           Santo Domingo                                                                                      Shushufindi
                                                                                                           de los Colorados        QUITO                                                                               R i o A g u a r i c o
                                                                                                     SANTO
                                                                                                     DOMINGO                      SANTA                                                                                                       Rio
                                                             M A N A B I                                                          CATALINA                                                       Puerto Francisco                                  Napo
                                                                                                                                                                                                 de Orellana
                      Bahía de Caráquez                                                                                                                                                           N    A     P   O
                                                                                                                                                                      NAPO-PAYAMINO
                                                                                                              COTOPAXI
                                                                  Calceta                                                      LATACUNGA                        Archidona                                                                     R i o      Nuevo
                          Manta                        LA MARGARITA                                                                                                                                                                                  Yasuni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rocafuerte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1°
          1°                                                         Velasco       Ibarra          Quevedo                                                       TENA

                                                    PORTOVIEJO                                           NAGSICHE
                                                     PORTOVIEJO
                                                                                   PICHILINGUE                         AMBATO                                                                                      R i o    C o n o n a c o
                                                                                                                          TUNGURAHUA
                                                     Sucre                              LOS                EL                           Baños
                                                                                                       AHUACOTO                                      Mera                                                   Rio
                                                                           Daule        RIOS                                       PILLARO                 PUYO                                                Curaray

                                                                                                      GUARANDA
                                                                       Rio
                                                                                                         BOLIVAR               RIOBAMBA                                                      P A S T A Z A
                                                                                                                                                 Palora                                                           Rio

                                                                                BABAHOYO
                                     Manglaralto                                                                  CHIMBORAZO                                                                                           P i n t o y a c u

                                                   EL ROSARIO                                                                                   PALORA                                       Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2°
          2°                                                                         Rio
                                                     G U A Y A S                                                                                                         R i o
                                                                                    Babahoyo     Naranjito                                                                         Pastaza          Bobonaza

               Salinas                                       GUAYAQUIL                              Cumandá

                                                                                                                                                     MACAS
                                                                                  BOLICHE
                                                                                                                                           Sucua         M O R O N A -
                                                                                                           C A Ñ A R
                                                                                                                        CHUQUIPATA                       S A N T I A G O

                                                              Posorja                       Naranjal
                                                                                                                                  Mendez          Rupano                                                                                      76°
                                                                                                                          AZOGUES                                   Cangaime

                                                                                                                            BULLCAY                               Rio

                                                                                                                                         General                                                 3°
          3°             G u l f o f                                                                  A Z U A YCUENCA                    L. Plaza
                                                                                                                                         Gutiérrez                                                                                      ECUADOR
                     G u a y a q u i l
                                                            MACHALA                                                                Zamora                                                                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
                                                                                                                                   Rio
                                                                                                                                 Gualaquiza              78°                                   77°                                    PROJECT
                                                               Huaquillas        E L
                                                                                O R O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXPERIMENTAL STATIONS (INIAP)
                                                                                                                                                              GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
                                                                                                              ZAMORA-                                                                                                         EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (INIAP)
                                                                                                                Yantzaza               91°                (ARCHIPIÉLAGO DE COLÓN)
                                                                                                              CHINCHIPE                                                                                                       PAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                   ISLA PINTA
                                                                                                          LOJA
                                                                                                                                                            ISLA MARCHENA                                                     OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
          4°                                                                                                                                                                  ISLA GENOVESA
                                                                                         Catacocha        ZAMORA                                                                                                              RAILROADS
                                                                                   L O J A                      79°
                                                                                                                                             P A C I F I C             O C E A N                                              AIRPORTS

                                                                                                                     0°                                                                          0°                           PORTS
                                                                                                                                                    ISLA SAN SALVADOR
                    P E R U                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                               ISLA                                                  ISLA SANTA CRUZ                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                  0        25          50          75        100                                          FERNANDINA


                                 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                      ISLA SAN
                                                                                                                                  ISLA                                           CRISTÓBAL
          5°                                                                                 5°                                 ISABELA

                This map has been prepared by The World Bank's staff exclusively for
                the convenience of readers and is for the internal use of The World                    1°                                                                                        1°
                Bank Group. The denominations used and the boundaries shown on this
                map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD
JULY1995        on the legal status of any territory or any endorsement or acceptance of                                                ISLA SANTA MARÍA
                such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                          ISLA
                                                                                                                                                                                       ESPAÑOLA                                                                               27174
                                                                                                        0    25       50    75  100
            81°                                                           80°                                   KILOMETERS               91°                              90°

