Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18382
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2939-NIR)
August 26, 1998
Macroeconomics Group 4
Country Department 13
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =             CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                    =             CFAF 606.3 (August 25, 1998)
CFA franc 1 million        =             US$1,649.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABATTOIR         Abattoir Frigorifique de Niamey (Slaughterhouse)
AfDB             African Development Bank
CDN              Credit du Niger (Credit Agency)
CNUT             Conseil National des Utilisateurs des Transports (Council of Public Transportation
Users)
CPCT             Caisse des Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales (Credit Agency)
ENA              Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National School of Administration)
EPA              Etablissement Public A Caractere Administratif
ERC              Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIPMEN           Fonds d'Intervention des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises Nigeriennes (Small and
Medium-Size Enterprise Promotion Fund)
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
INRAN            Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques du Niger (Agricultural Research
Institute)
LABOCEL          Laboratoire Central de l'Elevage (Central Livestock Laboratory)
NIGELEC          Soci&t6 Nigerienne d'Electricit6 (Power Generation and Distribution Company)
OFEDES           Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol (Well Drilling Company)
OLANI            Office du Lait du Niger (Dairy Products Company)
ONAHA            Office National des Amenagements Hydro-agricoles (National Irrigation Company)
ONPE             Office Nationale des Postes et de l'Epargne (National Postal and Savings Office)
ONPPC            Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques du Niger
(National Pharmaceutical Company)
ONT              Office National du Tourisme (National Tourism Office)
OPT              Office des Postes et Telecommunications (Post and Telecoms Office)
OPVN             Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (Food Security Stock Agency)
ORTN             Office de Radiodiffusion et de Television du Niger (National Television Company)
PEs              Public Enterprises
PESAP            Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PFP              Policy Framework Paper
PFRC             Public Finance Reform Credit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ii
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
PSAC             Public Sector Adjustment Credit
RINI             Riz du Niger (Rice Company)
SAC              Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
SNC              Societe Nigerienne de Cimenterie (Cement Company)
SNE              Societe Nationale des Eaux (National Water Company)
SNTN             Soci6t6 Nationale de Transport du Niger (National Transportation Company)
SONHOTEL         Societe Nigerienne d'H6tellerie (Hotel Management Company)
SONICHAR         Societe Nigerienne de Charbon d'Anou Araren (Coal Mining Company)
SONIDEP          Societe Nigerienne des Produits Petroliers (Petroleum Import and Distribution
Company)
SONITEL          Societe Nigerienne des Telecommunications (Telecoms Company)
SONITEXTIL       Societe Nigerienne des Textiles (Textile Company)
SONUCI           Societe Nigerienne d'Urbanisme et de Construction Immobiliere (Urban Planning
and Real Estate Building Company)
SPEHG            Societe Proprietaire et Exploitante de l'Hotel Gawaye (Hotel Gawaye)
UEMOA            Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (West African Economic and
Monetary Union)
Vice President         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director       Theodore 0. Ahlers
Technical Manager      Charles P. Humphreys
Task Manager           Antonella Bassani
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iii
CONTENTS
PREFACE   ...................................................................................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................i
Introduction ..................................................                                                                                                                                         i
Implementation Experience and Results ...................................................i
Key Lessons Learned ..................................................                                                                                                                                ii
PART 1: PROGRAM  EVALUATION  .........................................................................................I
A. Background and Objectives .................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .................................................2
Macroeconomic Performance .................................................2
Public Finance .................................................3
Privatization .................................................5
C. Major Factors Affecting the Program .................................................6
D. Bank Performance .................................................7
E. Borrower Performance .................................................8
F. Outcome Assessment and Sustainability of Results .................................................8
G. Future Operations .................................................9
H. Key Lessons Learned .................................................9
PART 2. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..................................................                                                                                                                             12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..................................................                                                                                                                  12
Table 2. Related Bank Credits ..................................................                                                                                                                    13
Table 3. Project Timetable ..................................................                                                                                                                        13
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................................. 13
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................................                                                                                               14
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation ..................................................                                                                                                    15
Table 7. Studies Included in Project ..................................................                                                                                                              15
Table 8A. Project Costs .................................................. 15
Table 8B. Project Financing ..................................................                                                                                                                      15
Table 9 Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................                                                                                                              15
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                                                                                                              16
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................................                                                                                           17
Table 12 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................                                                                                                             17
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................... 17
APPENDICES
Observations of the borrower on the ICR
Borrower's contribution to the ICR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2939-NIR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit in the Republic of Niger, for which Credit No. 2939-NIR in the
amount of SDR 21.6 million (US$30 million equivalent) was approved on March 20,
1997 and made effective on March 21, 1997.
2.    The credit was closed on March 31, 1998, original closing date. This was a one
tranche operation which was filly disbursed in March 1997.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Mr. B. Essama-Nssah, Consultant, AFTIl, under the
supervision of Ms. A. Bassani, Task Manager, AFTM4, and reviewed by Mr. Chevallier,
Sector Manager, AFTS3.
4.    Preparation of this ICR is based on material in the credit file and other related
documents, discussions with World Bank staff and Government officials currently or
formerly charged with project implementation. The Borrower contributed to this report
by commenting on the draft ICR and by preparing its own evaluation of the credit's
preparation and execution, which is attached as an appendix to the ICR.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2939-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    For about a decade starting in 1983, the socioeconomic system of Niger has
performed poorly due to both external and internal shocks such as: (i) a sharp decline in
the international price of and demand for uranium (its main export); (ii) recurrent
droughts; (iii) inappropriate budgetary policies; (iv) a loss of competitiveness associated
with a real appreciation of the CFA franc; and (v) political instability. These conditions,
coupled with rapid population growth, have led to a decline of real GDP of about one half
of one percent per annum during 1983-1993 and a significant poverty increase. Niger's
per capita income (US$200 in 1997) and development indicators are among the lowest in
the world, and over 50 percent of the population live in poverty.
2.    Between 1983 and 1993, with the support of the donor community, the
government made several attempts at economic reform. These efforts were met with
limited success, however, as they failed to address the key factors underlying the
imbalances associated with poor performance. These factors related to low revenue
mobilization, an unaffordable wage bill and public enterprise mismanagement.
3.    The Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, Cr. 2939-NIR) was designed as a
one-tranche operation to seize a window of opportunity opened by a new government
seemingly committed to dealing with these fundamental issues. All actions were taken
prior to Board presentation and leverage was placed on future operations to induce
irreversibility of measures taken and continued implementation of the adjustment
program. The main objectives of the credit were to: (i) improve macroeconomic stability
through strengthened internal resource mobilization, a contained wage bill and the
clearing of domestic arrears; (ii) increase the efficiency and equity of public expenditure;
and (iii) extend the scope of private activities by launching a privatization program
covering 12 public enterprises.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The operation was appropriately designed to fit the uncertainty associated with the
prevailing socio-political instability. The outcome is considered satisfactory. Prior



ii
actions were not reversed, as the government maintained its commitment to reforms. In
addition, the program was put back on track after some slippages, and a new operation is
being finalized for FY99 to support the Government's efforts to consolidate and deepen
the adjustment program.
5.    Significant achievements were obtained within the public finance component.
These include among others: (i) reduction of the wage bill by 11 percent in 1997; (ii)
raising revenue collection by 16 percent in 1996 and 15 percent in 1997; and (iii)
increasing non-wage current expenditure for the health and education sectors. Within the
privatization component, the following was achieved: (i) adoption of the revised public
enterprise privatization law and establishment of a privatization agency; (ii) sale of
OLANI (dairy products) in March 1998 and SNC (cement) in April 1998; (iii) signing of
a protocol to transfer the management of SONIDEP's petroleum storage facilities to the
private sector in December 1997 and elimination of SONIDEP's import monopoly for
petroleum products; and (iv) hiring of financial and regulatory advisors to complete
transactions for the water, electricity and telecoms utilities.
6.    Two major factors were responsible for some delays in the implementation of the
program in the second half of 1997: (i) weak institutional capacity and poor inter-agency
coordination; and (ii) socio-political instability. Thus, for the better part of 1997 the
attention and energy of the government were absorbed by security issues and socio-
political tensions, notably continued labor unions unrest and repeated incidents with rebel
groups in the north of the country. Implementation was further hampered by the lack of
coordination and cooperation among various government agencies in charge of economic
affairs and weak capacity of the Nigerien administration for privatization activities.
Key Lessons Learned
7.    Three key lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the PSAC-supported
program. First, one-tranche operations are best to address concrete, up-front policy
decisions in an environment where the track record of reform is still limited or where the
information base on the country is rudimentary. One-tranche operations, however, raise
the issue of the irreversibility of those actions. IDA appropriately couched the PSAC
within the broader context of its interventions in Niger by linking further adjustment
lending and increased investment lending to sustained implementation of the measures
supported by the credit.
8.    Second, in an environment characterized by government's weak institutional and
implementation capacity and an unstable political situation, it is important to keep the
reform program design simple, and the objectives and the timetable for their
implementation realistic. Based on the lessons from previous adjustment credits, the
PSAC was designed to support a few key up-front actions to directly address long-
standing and interlinked public finance and public enterprise problems, whose resolution



iii
was considered to be a prerequisite for action on the even more difficult medium- and
long-term adjustment issues. In addition, except for the privatization components, the
overall objectives were set realistically to conform to the country's poor implementation
track record and uncertain growth prospects. The operation was also accompanied by
intensive IDA supervision and the provision of substantive technical assistance to help
implement the reforms.
9.    Third, the design of a reform program under conditions of political uncertainty
and instability requiring a high degree of consensus building should include provisions
for a meaningful and sustained communication effort. This would ensure a greater
assimilation and ownership of the reform program within the administration and would
promote a better understanding of the need and rationale for reforms by the different
political, interest and pressure groups. Although the Nigerien Government made some
initial efforts to broaden the support for the reform program and develop the necessary
consensus to carry it out, it did not sustain these efforts through time. Realizing the
importance of a sound and sustained communication and consensus building campaign,
in early 1998 the Nigerien Government developed a communication strategy on
economic reform issues as an integral part of its economic reform program with IDA
assistance and is currently implementing it.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2939-NIR)
PART 1: PROGRAM EVALUATION
A. Background and objectives
1.    Niger is among the poorest countries in the world. About one inhabitant in two
lives in poverty with inadequate access to income earning opportunities, education, health
and other social services. Life expectancy at birth is about 47 years. It is estimated that
36 percent of children under five suffer chronic malnutrition, while 15 percent are acutely
malnourished. Furthermore, the illiteracy rate is high, about 86 percent (93 percent for
women), and only 28 percent of school age children are enrolled (21 percent for girls).
Per capita income was estimated at US$200 in 1997, and during the 1983-1993 period
real GDP declined by about one-half percent on average.
2.    The socioeconomic performance of Niger is largely explained by its structural
characteristics, the shocks that have hit the economy over time and the policy stance of
the government. The economy is dominated by uranium and agriculture. Uranium
accounts for about 7 percent of GDP, 50 percent of export earnings and about 5 percent of
government revenues. For the 1983-1993 period, the weak performance of the economy
was the outcome of: (i) a sharp decline in the international price of and demand for
uranium, (ii) two prolonged droughts (in normal years only one percent of the land area
receives more than 600 mm of rain) (iii) a loss of competitiveness associated with a real
appreciation of the CFA franc, (iv) rapid population growth estimated at 3.3 percent per
year, (v) inappropriate budgetary policies, and (vi) political instability.
3.    During the same period (1983-1993), several attempts were made by the
government to improve macroeconomic management and reform the public enterprise
sector. IDA supported this effort with five operations (a Structural Adjustment Credit, a
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit, an Economic Recovery Credit, and two
Technical Assistance Projects).  Significant progress was made in price and trade
liberalization (including the abolition of monopolies in agricultural trade) and some tax
reform measures were adopted. However, the major factors underlying the internal and
external imbalances were not addressed. In particular, the government lacked the
determination to (i) contain the wage bill, (ii) restructure the civil service, (iii) strengthen
the tax administration, and (iv) privatize public enterprises.
4.    The Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, Cr.2939-NIR) was designed to deal
with the above issues with particular emphasis on the link between public finance and
public enterprise problems. Accordingly, the overall objective of the credit was to help
sustain the government's stabilization and public sector adjustment effort. The program



2
underlying this effort aimed at restoring macroeconomic balance and confidence in the
economy and improving the management of public resources. More specifically, the
adjustment operation had three major objectives relating to (1) revenue enhancement, (2)
expenditure restructuring, and (3) implementation of the privatization program.
5.    Revenue measures included: (i) simplifying the tax system, (ii) strengthening tax
administration and (iii) widening the tax base. Expenditure restructuring involved the
reduction of the share of the wage bill, subsidies and transfers in current expenditure in
favor of non-wage current expenditure for priority sectors such as primary education,
basic health care and road maintenance. The privatization program involved 12 public
enterprises, including the water, electricity and telecoms utilities. The credit did not aim
at resolving Niger's daunting medium-term development problems--poor growth
prospects, increasing poverty, underdeveloped human resources and a very limited
natural resource base. Rather, it focused on few key actions to directly address public
finance and public enterprise problems and helped the Government sustain
implementation of its medium-term reform program.
6.    These objectives are consistent with both the government's development
objectives and those stated in the 1994 Country Assistance Strategy. Indeed, that CAS
was built around three strategic elements: (i) the restoration of a stable macroeconomic
framework and the removal of structural impediments to economic growth; (ii) human
capital formation with a focus on girls' education, maternal and child care; and (iii) rural
development and natural resource management. The 1994 CAS had envisioned a multi-
tranche SAC in FY96-97 addressing a wide range of reform issues. In 1996, such an
operation was no longer judged to be appropriate because of uncertainty surrounding the
political situation, Niger's poor implementation track record and the need to re-examine
medium-term priorities in light of a more realistic assessment of Niger's growth
prospects. Thus, the operation was appropriately scaled down to a single-tranche credit
based mostly on actions taken prior to credit approval, while further IDA adjustment
support was made conditional upon the irreversibility of such actions and continued
implementation of the Government's medium-term reform program.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic performance
7.    The results posted since the reform program began in 1996 have been less
favorable than expected. Real GDP increased by 3.4 percent in 1997, as compared with
an expected rate of 4.3 percent, owing to the impact of a drought on agricultural
production in certain parts of the country. It should be noted, however, that this is the
first time since the 1977-80 uranium boom that Niger's GDP growth has been positive for
more than five consecutive years. Food price increases remained moderate, as imports of
cereals and the distribution of food aid in the drought-affected areas offset the reduction



3
in domestic cereal production. As a result, the average annual increase in the consumer
price index for Niamey in 1997 was in line with the program objective of 3 percent. The
real effective exchange rate is estimated to have depreciated by 3 percent in 1997.
Despite the improved competitiveness in 1997, the current account deficit (excluding
official transfers) is estimated to have widened by close to 1 percentage point of GDP to
10 percent, mainly because the drought contributed to a decline in agricultural exports
and an increase in imports of foodstuffs. Gross domestic savings (both public and
private) increased from 0.4 percent of GDP in 1995 to 3.3 percent in 1997 as a result of
the improvement in the Government's financial position, and gross domestic investment
increased from 7.5 percent of GDP in 1995 to 10.8 percent in 1997, largely as a result of
a resumption of private sector investment.
Public Finance
8.    In 1997, the fiscal deficit (on a commitment basis, excluding grants) amounted to
7.5 percent of GDP, as compared with the targeted deficit of 8.0 percent. Revenue
performance in 1997 was weaker than projected, falling short of the program target by
about 1 percentage point of GDP. Current expenditure were maintained within the limits
set by the government through strict control of the wage bill. Capital expenditure were
lower than projected, owing to shortfalls in external financing. Such shortfalls also
explain a net accumulation of external payments arrears of CFAF 1.9 billion in 1997.
There was, however, a sharp reduction in domestic payments arrears (CFAF 13.8 billion
in 1997 and 11.8 billion in the first half of 1998) through settlement of cross debt
between central government and public utilities and with external financial assistance
specifically targeted at clearing arrears to suppliers in the health and education sectors.
9.    Revenue Mobilization. The revenue mobilization effort focused on simplifying the
tax system, strengthening tax administration and widening the tax base. This was
considered a major challenge by the government as it constituted the centerpiece of the
public finance reform and a prerequisite for maintaining essential expenditures.
Particular attention was to be paid to individuals and activities evading taxes.
10.   The following specific measures were taken prior to credit approval: (i) the
merging of the general income tax and the schedular tax on wages and income into a
single tax on wages and salaries; (ii) a reform of informal sector taxation through the
introduction of a single professional tax (patente synthetique); (iii) the streamlining of
taxation on petroleum products and improvements in yield through a change in the price
structure; and (iv) a reduction in the maximum length of tax holidays for new investments
from 15 to 5 years. In addition, in October 1996 a pre-shipment import inspection firm
started providing assistance to customs in its effort to combat fraud. The following
measures were planned for 1997-98: (i) a reform of the property tax system; (ii) the
introduction of the single taxpayer identification number system; (iii) the use of treasury



4
checks for the payment of import duties in the context of externally and NGO financed
government procurement contracts; and (iii) the istrengthening of tax collection agencies.
11.   Revenue performance in 1996 and 1997 was encouraging as budgetary revenues
increased by 16 and 15 percent, respectively. However, revenues in 1997 fell short of the
program target (8.4 percent of GDP compared with a 9.8 percent program target).
Shortfalls occurred in all categories of tax revenues but were particularly significant in
customs. Reasons for the shortfalls in customs revenue are the delays in the
implementation of some tax reform measures, the lack of cooperation with the imports
verification agency, regional strikes in the transportation sector and petroleum shortages,
which slowed trade flows to Niger. Income tax revenue also fell short of projections,
mainly because of difficulties encountered in implementing the new tax schedule for
wages and salaries, the downward revision of salaries resulting from the application of
the new salary scale and the operating deficits posted by the mining companies in 1996.
12.   During the period December 1997-June 1998, measures were introduced to recoup
some of the revenue shortfall experienced in 1997, including accelerating the collection
of tax arrears owed to the Government by major public enterprises and tax defaulters, the
publication of a comprehensive list of tax defaulters in the press and their exclusion from
participation in Government procurement contracts, and efforts to improve cooperation
with the imports verification agency. During this period, the Government has also
accelerated the implementation of the next phase of the tax reform program, including
measures to reduce the number and scope of tax exonerations and strengthening tax
assessment and collection services (a detailed list of these measures is included in the
PFP 1998-2000). These efforts have already resulted in an increase in revenue collection
from the original target of CFAF 25.3 billion to CFAF 28.3 billion during the first quarter
of 1998.
13.   Expenditure Restructuring. One important element within this component of the
program relates to the wage bill, The 1997 budget envisaged a reduction of the wage bill
by 11 percent compared to the 11995 level.' In February 1997, the government adopted a
new salary scale eliminating distortions in the remuneration- system and reducing base
wages and housing allowances with the largest cuts targeted for higher categories and
grades. In addition, the Government kept personnel recruitment broadly in line with
retirements, with the priority for new hires 'going to education, health and revenue
collection agencies. As a result of these measures, the wage bill for 1997 remained
broadly in line with the program target.
14.   The salary reform was part of a bigger program involving the rationalization of
the civil service and payroll system. Within this context, in 1997 a civil service census
1 The 1996 wage bill was not used as a reference because of a one-time cut of 33 percent in 1996
civil service wages that was agreed to with the labor unions.



5
was completed in September 1997, which led to the dismissal of 319 government
employees (less than 1 percent of the civil service) whose status was irregular. In
addition, a personnel re-deployment program for the' health and the tax collection
agencies was launched and the harmonization of the civil service roaster and payroll files
has been completed.
15.   Current non-salary expenditure for the education and health sectors (on a
commitment basis) increased in 1997 by 12 percent, on average, compared with a
targeted increase of 14 percent. This increase is in line with the requirements of the basic
education and health care programs supported by two ongoing IDA-financed projects. In
addition, the domestic budgetary contribution to the public investment program increased
from CFAF 3.6 billion in 1996 to CFAF 5.7 billion in 1997 (10.4 percent of total public
investment), versus a 1997 program target of CFAF 4.5 billion (or 5.7 percent of total
public investment), reflecting the Government's effort to ensure the timely availability of
counterpart funds for public investment projects. However, expenditure for the Road
Fund did not increase as planned (CFAF 1.1 billion in 1997 versus a program target of
CFAF 2.7 billion).
16.   Also, scholarships for secondary and higher education were cut from 4.5 billion in
1996 to CFAF 3.2 billion in 1997 (versus a program objective of CFAF 3.8 billion) and
new eligibility criteria were adopted to ensure that only the most deserving students
received support.
Privatization
17.   The government strategy for the public enterprise sub-sector involves the
privatization of twelve enterprises, the liquidation of three and the restructuring of eight
others by the end of 1998. The PSAC supported the launching of the privatization
program and its sustained implementation in 1997-98.
18.   The privatization program was launched during the period October 1996-April
1997 with the adoption of a legal framework for privatization, the establishment of a
privatization agency, the sale of SONITEXTIL (textiles) and preparatory work for the
privatization of the remaining PEs. As a result of weak technical and administrative
capacities and poor coordination among various government agencies, however, the
implementation of the privatization program slowed -down during May-October 1997. In
November 1997, the Government took a number of measures to accelerate the program.
First, a memorandum of understanding was signed with IDA which spelled out the
modalities of the next steps of the privatization program, clear guidelines for assuring
transparency in the preparation of the privatization transactions, and measures to
strengthen government capacity for privatization activities. Next, the requests for bids for
the sale of OLANI (dairy products) and SNC (cement) were issued in December 1997,
and the sales thereof were concluded in March and April 1998, respectively. The



6
requests for bids for the management of Abattoir (slaughterhouse) were also issued in
February 1998, but no private investor came forward (the Government is revising the
requests for bids in order to re-issue them in 1998).
19.   The protocol relative to the establishment of a new private sector company
responsible for managing the storage facilities of SONIDEP (petroleum import) was
signed with the private sector, SONIDEP's import monopoly for petroleum products was
eliminated and a regulatory framework governing private sector's imports of petroleum
products was adopted. In addition, the process of restructuring SONIDEP got under way
in December 1997 with the recruitment of a consultant responsible for conducting a study
of the planned restructuring. Consortia for the privatization of SNE (water), SONITEL
(telecoms) and NIGELEC (electricity) have all been recruited.  In addition, the
Government has completed an inventory of payments arrears between the Government
and PEs, and prepared a plan for their orderly settlement. Measures are also being put in
place to avoid the accumulation of new government arrears to public utilities. On the
basis of government performance during the last eight months, it can be concluded that
the implementation of the privatization program has been accelerated and that
privatization transactions are being conducted in full transparency.
20.  In addition, three enterprises have been liquidated as planned: FIPMEN (Small
and Medium Size Enterprise Promotion Fund), LABOCEL (Livestock Laboratory) and
SONHOTEL (Hotel Management Company). Another enterprise, ONT (National
Tourism Office), is expected to be liquidated in August 1998. Restructuring efforts for
eight other public enterprises continue, including that of ONPPC (Pharmaceutical
Company), SNTN (National Transportation Company) and CNUT (Council of Public
Transportation Users).
C. Major Factors Affecting the Program
21.   The major factors affecting the program were: (i) the 1997 drought; (ii) political
and social tensions; and (iii) weak institutional capacity. As stated earlier, weather
conditions caused a contraction of agricultural output and food shortages in the Northern
part of the country. This contributed, via the impact on exports, to the deterioration of
external imbalances. Except for the drought, it is reasonable to think that all the other
factors depend more or less on government policies.
22.   For the better part of 1997, most of the government energy and attention were
absorbed by: (i) the security situation created by repeated attacks by the rebels in the
North; and (ii) political and social tensions associated with the resistance to reform by
various interest groups.  Labor unions resisted restrictive wage policy and the
privatization program. Other interest groups having contributed to some slippage of the
program include such institutions as the University and the National Television.



7
23.   As far as institutional factors are concerned, implementation was hampered by the
lack of coordination and cooperation among various government agencies in charge of
economic affairs. The effect of this factor was further compounded by that of weak
technical capacity.
D. Bank Performance
24.   The Bank acted with speed to process the PSAC in a manner consistent with the
requirements of providing timely assistance to Niger. It coordinated its work well with
the Government and other donors (notably the IMF, the AfDB and the EU) to ensure a
coherent and convergent approach for all.
25.   The Bank was candid in the assessment of the high risk involved and took
sufficient account of this assessment in the design and the supervision of the operation.
There were three dimensions to this risk: (i) continued political and social instability
which could undermine government commitment to the reform program; (ii) limited
government implementation capacity; and (iii) a shortfall in external financing for the
period covered by the credit. While the third risk did not materialize, socio-political
instability and weak administrative capacity were responsible for some delays in the
implementation of the program in the second half of 1997. The credit's design and tight
Bank supervision helped to partially mitigate these problems and maintain the program
on track.
26.   With respect to government commitment, the Bank acknowledged that Niger did
not have a good track record on reform implementation. Given that two successive
governments with different party affiliations did agree on the proposed reforms, however,
the Bank saw this as an opportunity to help initiate meaningful reforms. In the face of the
high risk and the associated uncertainty stemming from the volatile political context, the
credit was designed appropriately as a one-tranche operation to seize the window of
opportunity and to keep it open as long as possible. The relevant CAS had envisaged a
multi-tranche SAC for FY96-97, this was replaced by a smaller, highly-focused, single-
tranche operation. Given that disbursement was conditional on prior actions, this raised
the issue of the irreversibility of those actions. The Bank appropriately couched the
operation within the broader context of its interventions in Niger by linking further
adjustment lending and increased investment lending to sustained implementation of the
measures supported by the credit. By resisting the temptation of a piecemeal approach,
the Bank signaled its interest in true partnership.
27.   The tight Bank supervision of the operation made it possible to mitigate many
problems related to weak government implementation capacity. In hindsight, it appears
that the privatization calendar was too optimistic, as shown by the delays encountered in
the second half of 1997. The signing of a protocol of agreement between the Bank and
the Government in November 1997 to clarify the modalities of the privatization program,



8
and the provision of substantive technical assistance in all the program components (even
after the disbursement of the credit) were instrumental in maintaining the program on
track.
E. Borrower Performance
28.   Despite the slippages that occurred, the overall performance of the borrower is
considered satisfactory. The government stuck to the reform program in the face of
political adversity and bureaucratic constraints. In particular, it withstood initial strong
resistance to the reduction of the wage bill and the privatization program.
29.   When it became clear that the lack of coordination and cooperation among various
government agencies was seriously hampering reforms, the government took steps to
regain momentum. A new economic team was appointed in November 1997 with the
explicit mandate to put the reform program back on track. This constituted renewed
commitment to the full implementation of the program. Since that time, efforts made by
the Governrment to regain momentum and accelerate the implementation of the economic
reform program have been sustained. However, continued implementation of the reform
program could benefit from additional Government efforts to enhance inter-agency
coordination and the effectiveness of the technical committee in charge of program
supervision, including through a better definition of each of its members' responsibilities
and the provision of adequate working conditions.
F. Outcome Assessment and Sustainability of Results
30.   As stated earlier, the essence of the credit was to support the implementation of a
few key actions taken prior to credit approval to directly address public finance and
public enterprise problems and help the Government sustain implementation of the
medium-term economic reform program. No prior action has been reversed; despite
some delays encountered in the second and third quarter of 1997, in November 1997 the
Government took a number of measures to regain momentum and accelerate the
implementation of the economic reforn program. In this respect, the implementation of
the PSAC-supported reforms has in many ways laid or reinforced the foundations for the
further deepening and expansion of structural adjustment programs, and has started to
build a positive track record for Niger. In addition, several components of the reform
program, which were highly controversial at the beginning, notably the privatization of
public enterprises, have gained broader support. Significant gains have been made with
respect to strengthening national capacity for macroeconomic management and
privatization, and a public expenditure review has recently been completed by the
Government. Based on these results, the overall outcorme of the credit is satisfactory and
its achievements are likely to be sustainable.



9
G. Future Operations
31.   This operation helped establish a viable institutional framework for the design and
implementation of the next phase of the adjustment program. In addition, the quality of
our dialogue with the Government on economic reform issues improved and Government
monitoring and coordination of the economic program was strengthened. Based on the
satisfactory outcome the PSAC and Niger's continued need for quick-disbursing
financing, a follow-up Public Finance Reform Credit (PFRC) of US$64 million is
currently under preparation. This proposed three-tranche credit would provide budgetary
support to fill the financing gap for 1998 and 1999, and would thus permit the
Government to sustain implementation of the second phase of the reform program. The
main focus of the PFRC is to restore credibility of public finances by ensuring budgetary
orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of domestic arrears. In addition, the program supports
measures to consolidate and reinforce the tax reform efforts implemented in 1996-97, and
to launch a medium-term effort to improve the efficiency and equity of public spending.
These actions would build on past achievements in the area of macroeconomic
stabilization and public sector adjustment, which were supported by the PSAC. The risk
associated with this operation is still assessed as high on the grounds of further political
instability and weak implementation capacity. This assessment indicates further need for
actions to build and strengthen capacity within the administration, and for broadening
dialogue on and support for the reform program within civil society.
H. Key Lessons Learned
32.   The implementation of the Public Sector Adjustment Credit clearly demonstrates
the fundamental importance of the role played by the prevailing political process in
economic policy making and implementation. The risk and uncertainty surrounding this
operation were essentially political. Even the bureaucratic gridlock was in part political.
Many reform slippages observed in this country since 1991 are explained by frequent
changes in governments, bureaucratic constraints and the ability of vested interests to
successfully oppose reform efforts. These facts illustrate clearly that policy-making is
imbedded in a political process which ultimately determines the outcome through the
legislation process, the choice or the formation of administrative structures and the
subsequent operation of such institutions. These factors must be understood and taken
into consideration every step of the way from project identification to ex-post evaluation.
This presents a challenge for the Bank to do so while remaining above the political fray.
33.   Three key lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the PSAC-supported
program. First, one-tranche operations are best to address concrete, up-front policy
decisions in an environment where the track record of reform is still limited or where the
information base on the country is rudimentary. One-tranche operations, however, raise
the issue of the irreversibility of those actions. IDA appropriately couched the PSAC
within the broader context of its interventions in Niger by linking further adjustment



10
lending and increased investment lending to sustained implementation of the measures
supported by the credit.
34.   Second, in an environment characterized by government's weak institutional and
implementation capacity and an unstable political situation, it is important to keep the
reform program design simple, and the objectives and the timetable for their
implementation realistic. Based on the lessons from previous adjustment credits, the
PSAC was designed to support a few key up-front actions to directly address long-
standing and interlinked public finance and public enterprise problems, whose resolution
was considered to be a prerequisite for action on the even more difficult medium- and
long-term adjustment issues. In addition, except for the privatization components, the
overall objectives were set realistically to conform to the country's poor implementation
track record and growth prospects. The operation was accompanied by intensive IDA
supervision and the provision of substantive technical assistance and institutional
strengthening to help implement the reforms.
35.   Third, the design of a reform program under conditions of political uncertainty
and instability requiring a high degree of consensus building should include provisions
for a meaningful and sustained communication effort. This would ensure a greater
assimilation and ownership of the reform program within the administration and would
promote a better understanding of the need and benefits of reforms by the different
political, interest and pressure groups. In the early phases of the reform program, the
Nigerien government made some efforts to broaden the support for reforms through
communication initiatives. However, these efforts were limited and not sustained
through time. As a result, in 1997 the Government had a particularly difficult time
winning public acceptance and "ownership" of programs involving hard social choices,
especially the privatization of public enterprises and the reduction of the wage bill. A
better-informed and more widespread public dialogue could have facilitated the
implementation of these programs considerably.
36.   Lack of communication concerned several levels:
*  intra-governmental communications. A major problem was the non-circulation of
information, and lack of regular dialogue between government agencies, even over
issues (such as privatization) requiring the close coordination of different Ministries.
Communication was equally lacking between government agencies and the
Parliament.
*  Government and civil society. Dialogue between government and civil society over
development issues has been limited. The political opposition in Niger has been
largely unwilling to cooperate in achieving national economic priorities, and a major
reason (in their own words) has been a lack of communication from the government.
Unions and businesses alike complain that they are not receiving even basic



11
information, much less being involved in dialogue on issues that concern them
directly.
37.   Realizing the importance of a sound and sustained public communication effort,
in early 1998 the Government developed, with IDA assistance, a communication strategy
that aims to build national consensus on the key economic reform issues via more
systematic dialogue involving government, unions, NGOs, the private sector, municipal
leaders, and others.



12
PART 2. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial    Partial      Negligible       Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                       i
Sector Policies                                   i
Financial Objectives  -
Institutional Development                         i
Physical Objectives                                                           /
Poverty Reduction                                                             i
Gender Issues                                                                 /
Other Social Objectives                           i
Environmental Objectives                                                     i
Public Sector Management             i
Private Sector Development                        i
Other                                                                         if
B. Project Sustainability            Likely            Unlikely         Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                  Highly          Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                           i
Preparation Assistance                                   i
Appraisal                                                i
Supervision                            if
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                              if
Implementation                                           i
Covenant Compliance                                      i
Operation                                                i
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly      Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory



13
Table 2. Related Bank Credits
Credit title                 Purpose                Year of    Status
approval
Preceding Operations
1. SAC I           To introduce reforms aimed at improving   1986  Closed
basic macro-economic management
2. PESAP           To restructure the public enterprise   1987      Closed
sector
3. ERC             To support the post- CFAF devaluation  1994     Closed
reform program and mitigate its negative
social impact
Following Operations
1. Public Finance    To restore budgetary orthodoxy,     N.A.       Under
Reform Credit      reinforce tax reform efforts implemented       preparation
in 1996-97 and improve efficiency of
public spending
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned        Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification (Executive Project     Oct. 1-5, 1996       Oct. 1-5, 1996
Summary)
Preparation                        Oct. 31 -Nov. 13, 1996  Oct. 31 -Nov. 13, 1996
Appraisal                            Feb. 6-12, 1997       Feb. 6-12, 1997
Negotiations                         Feb. 12-13, 1997     Feb. 12-13, 1997
Letter of Development Policy          Feb. 14, 1997         Feb. 14, 1997
Board Presentation                   March 20, 1997        March 20, 1997
Signing                              March 20, 1997        March 20, 1997
Effectiveness                        March 21, 1997        March 21, 1997
Single Tranche Release               March 21, 1997        March 21, 1997
Loan Closing                         March 31, 1998        March 31, 1998
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY97
Appraisal estimate                                    30,000
Actual                                                29,725
Actual as % of estimate                                 99
Date of final disbursement                        March 21, 1997



14
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators  Objective for 1997                  Actual/Estimate
in President's Report
1. Macroeconomic data
GDP real growth (%)            4.3%                                3.4%
Consumer price index (%/o,     3.0%                                2.9%
annual average)
External current account balance   -12.1%                          -10. 1%
(% of GDP, excl. off. transfers)
2. Public Finance
Overall balance (excl. grants, %    -8.0%                          -7.5%
of GDP)
Budgetary revenues (% of GDP)   9.8%                               8.4%
Current expenditure (% of GDP)  9.9%                               10.4%
Wage bill                      Reduce the wage bill from CFAF 49.7   CFAF 44.2 billion
billion in 1995 to CFAF 44.1 billion in
1997 through a reduction in base
salaries and benefits
Current non-salary expenditure    14% increase for each sector     12% increase on average
for health and education sectors
Expenditure for the Road Fund    CFAF 2.7 billion                  CFAF 1.1 billion
Strength of civil service and  No new net recruitments and new hires  Objective met
sectoral distribution of new hires  going to social sectors and tax
collection agencies
University scholarships        CFAF 3.8 billion                    CFAF 3.2 billion
Domestically-financed capital  CFAF 4.5 billion                    CFAF 5.7 billion
expenditure
Domestic arrears               Reduction of domestic arrears (CFAF    CFAF 13.8 billion cleared in 1997 and CFAF 11.8 billion
19.2 billion in 1997) and adoption of   in first half of 1998; measures adopted to avoid
measures to avoid the accumulation of  accumulation of new arrears
new arrears
3. Privatization
OLANI, SNC and Abattoir        Bring to the point of sale          OLANI and SNC completed. Bids were issued for
management of Abattoir, but no investor came forward;
bids will be re-issued in 1998
SONITEXTIL                     Bring to the point of sale          Completed
SNE                            Request bids for lease contract for  Under preparation (financial advisors for preparation of
SNE                                 bids documents have been recruited in August 1998)
SONITEL                       Bring to the point of sale majority of    Under preparation (financial and regulatory advisors for
shares of SONITEL                   preparation of bids documents have been recruited in
August 1998).
SONIDEP                       Adoption of regulatory framework for   Regulatory framework adopted; protocol for creation of
private imports of petroleum products   private company signed with private operations;
and creation of private company to  company to be created in February 1999
manage SONIDEP storage facilities
NIGELEC                        Request bids for concession contract    Under preparation (financial and regulatory advisors for
for NIGELEC                         preparation of bids documents have been recruited in
August 1998).
SPEHG, RINI, ONAHA and        Bring to the point of sale           Ongoing
OFEDES



15
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Not Applicable
Table 8A. Project Costs
Not Applicable
Table 8B. Project Financing
Not Applicable
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



16
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Niger
Public Sector Adjustment Credit
Credit     Covenant   Present   Original    Revised                            Description of covenant                      Comments
Agreement        type       status   fulfillment  fulfillment
Section                                date         date
3.01     Monitoring,      C                                 (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the
review and                                        request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in
reporting                                         carrying out the Program; (b) Prior to each such exchange of views,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request;
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
3.02     Accounts/       NA                                 Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
audits                                            (a) have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the date of the Association's request for
such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.



17
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned          Revised           Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$    Weeks   US$
Preparation to appraisal  56.0    157.8     56.0    157.8    62.9    160.0
Appraisal                11.6    25.3       11.6    25.3      7.7      21.7
Negotiations through Board  7.1   17.7       7.1     17.7     8.0      18.7
approval
Supervision              34.5    97.7       34.5    97.7    20.6    57.1
Completion               3.0      4.1        3.0     4.1      4.6      7.4
TOTAL                    112.2   302.6    112.2   302.6   103.8   264.9
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of   Month/  Number  Days   Specialized   Performance rating  Types of
project cycle   year   of     in    staff skills                    problems
persons   field   represented  Implemen Develop
*                         tation    ment ob
status   jectives
Through    11/96      6      12    macroecon,      S        S       none
appraisal                          privatization
Appraisal   02/97     8       10    macroecon,      S        S      none
through                            privatization
Board
approval
Supervision   05/97    8       8    macro, priv.     S        S     See ICR
10/97     6       2    macro, priv.     S       S
02/98     5       6    macro, priv.     S        S
* Excluding consultants.



APPENDICES



REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
MThI1STERE DES FILNANCES, DES REFORMES       Niarney, le    1 AOUT 1998
EC0N0)M10M$E ET DE LA PRIVATISAT1ON
DI,RECTION GENERALE DE L'ECONOMIE
DIRECTION DES ETUDES FINANCIERES
ET DES REFORMES
LE SECRETAIRE GENERAL.
No. .   MFRFfDGECEDEFRI&                  a
Madame Antonnella BASSANI
Region Afrique
Banque MondWle
Washington D,C
Obiet: Observations sur le projet d'execution
du Cr6dit d'Ajustement du Secteur Public
(Credit 2939-NIR)
Madame,
J'ai l'honneur de porter a votre haute attention les observations de la
partie Nigerienne sur 1'execution du credit cite en objet:
- 1. Sur le projet du rapport de fin d'execution du cr6dit elabore par la
Banque Mondiale, la partie Nig6rienne n'a aucune observation de
fond.
Les observations de forme portent sur la feuille de garde ofu le numero du credit
est 2939-NIR au lieu dc 29390-NIR d'une part et d'autre part, il s'agit du
<< Credit d'Ajustement dIu Secteur Public ) au lieu de (( Credit a I'Ajustement du
Secteur Public >.
- 2. En ce qui concerne le rapport d'achevement e1abor6 par le
Gouvemement du Niger, il me plait de vous informer que la derniere
mission du Fonds Mon6taire International a permis d'actualiser
certains chiffres.



Par consequent, les paragraphes suivants devraient 8tre modifies:
Paragraphe 9: (< Accroitre les recettes intemes de 7,8 % du PIB en 1996 a
10,3 % en 1999 et les depenses courantes de 8,7 % du PIB en 1996 a 9,3 % en
1999 >>.
Paragraphe 29 : < Les depenses d'investissements publics se sont elevees a
54,7 milliards de FCFA en 1997, le taux de consommation des credits etant de
64,4 % en progression sensible par rapport a 1996 (51 %).
Veuillez agr6er, Madame, 1'expression de ma parfaite consideration.
A}SD
TOTAL PRGECS) 03



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2939-NIR)
Borrower's Evaluation
1.    The Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC), Credit No. 2939-NIR in the amount of SDR 21.6
million, was closed on March 31, 1998. The objective of the credit was to support the Government's
stabilization and public sector adjustment efforts. This single-tranche operation was fully disbursed in
March 1997 on the basis of actions taken prior to Board presentation of the credit. Sustainable
implementation of the program supported by the credit was made a precondition for receiving any further
IDA adjustment lending.
2.    This report presents the borrower's perspective regarding implementation of the program
supported by the credit.
I.    INTRODUCTION
3.    About 63 percent of Niger's population (9.3 million) live below the poverty line under
conditions that include severe nutritional deficits and poor access to social services, particularly
health and education. Per capita income (US$200 in 1997) and development indicators are
among the lowest in the world. According to the UNDP human development index, Niger is
among the poorest countries in the world.
4.    Weak economic performance since the end of the uranium boom in the early 1980s was
reflected in a decline in GDP of about 0.5 percent per year on average between 1983 and 1993.
This weakness was the result of: (i) external shocks (severe and repeated droughts, the decline in
uranium earnings, the drop in net transfers of foreign capital and the debt crisis); (ii) weak
management of public resources, both with regard to revenue mobilization and expenditure
efficiency; (iii) a large and inefficient parastatal sector; (iv) badly distorted economic incentives
for the private sector to produce, save and invest; and (v) a loss of competitiveness due to the real
appreciation of the CFA franc until 1994. In addition, economic growth in the country was
further limited by a weak agricultural base, underdeveloped human resources and continued
political instability. These conditions, combined with rapid population growth, led to a
significant increase in poverty since the early 1980s.
5.    This situation resulted in rapid growth of the informal sector, a shrinking of the modern
economy and increasing tax evasion. Budgetary revenues fell from 11 percent of GDP in 1987
to 6 percent in 1994, while the overall budget deficit (excluding grants) reached 12.5 percent of
GDP the same year.



2
6.    At the beginning of 1995, a series of corrective measures were taken to stabilize the
economic and financial situation: (i) simplification of the tax system and widening of the tax
base; (ii) more effective control of expenditures; and (iii) improved administration of the tax
system and of health and education services. These measures translated into an increase in
budgetary revenues (7.2 percent of GDP), a decrease in the wage bill (73.2 percent of budgetary
revenues, versus 91 percent in 1994) and stabilization of expenditures and the overall budget
deficit. The results achieved in 1995 were the beginning of the stabilization process which was
pursued in 1996.
7.    In 1996, these efforts produced an increase in budgetary revenues which reached 7.8
percent of GDP, a reduction in current expenditures on the order of 16 percent, a wage bill that
dropped to 42.2 percent of budgetary revenue, a net reduction of internal arrears of CFAF 18
billion and an overall deficit (excluding grants) that fell to 5.4 percent of GDP.
8.    These results were achieved despite unfavorable circumstances, particularly an unstable
political environment, an almost total halt of external aid in 1995 and aid disbursements that ran
under 60 percent of projections in 1996, due to the fact that the agreement on the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility for the period 1996-98 was not finalized until June 1996.
9.    The objectives of this program were to: (i) attain a viable financial situation; and (ii)
achieve sustainable economic growth in the medium term, a prerequisite for reducing poverty.
II.   OBJECTIVES AND MEASURES
OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
10.   The objective of the medium-term adjustment strategy for 1997-99, detailed in the Letter
of Development Policy of February 14, 1997, was to further reduce the financial imbalances,
establish conditions conducive to sustainable growth and significantly reduce poverty. The
economic and financial policies identified within this framework were expected to produce real
GDP growth on the order of 4.3 percent during 1997-99, while reducing inflation to 3 percent
and limiting the external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) to 11 percent of
GDP beginning in 1998. An increase in domestic savings, based on an improvement in the
Government's financial position, was expected to support this growth.
11.   The Government expected to increase budgetary revenues from 7.8 percent of GDP in
1996 to 11 percent in 1999 and current expenditures from 9 percent of GDP in 1996 to 10
percent in 1999. Expenditures related to personnel were expected to decrease from CFAF 49.7
billion in 1995 to CFAF 44.1 billion in 1997.'
In 1996, the wage bill declined sharply as a result of a one-time agreement between the Government and
the trade unions concerning wage payments every 42 days.



3
12.   The specific measures supported by the PSAC were to: (i) simplify the tax system,
strengthen tax administration and widen the tax base; (ii) reduce the share of the wage bill,
transfers and subsidies in current expenditure in favor of non-wage current expenditure for
priority sectors such as primary education, basic health care and road maintenance; and (iii)
launch the public enterprise privatization program.
A. Revenue mobilization
13.   Revenue mobilization efforts in 1997 were to focus on simplifying the tax system,
strengthening tax administration and widening the tax base. The effectiveness of tax collection
was to receive special attention.
14.   The specific components of the revenue mobilization effort were: (i) the streamlining of
taxation on petroleum products through a change in the price structure; (ii) the merging of the
general income tax (IGR) and the schedular tax on wages and income (ICTS) into a single tax on
wages and salaries (IUTS); (iii) a reduction in the maximum length of tax holidays for new
investments to 5 years and a decrease in the number of activities eligible for tax exonerations
based on the Investment Code; (iv) a reformn of informal sector taxation through the introduction
of a single professional tax (patente synthetique); and (v) the setting up of an import pre-
inspection system. In addition, the Government was to reform the real estate taxation system and
introduce a single taxpayer identification number system. These measures were to be supported
by a substantial strengthening and decentralization of tax collection agencies. Finally, efforts to
harmonize customs and investment incentives within the UEMOA were to be pursued.
B. Expenditure restructuring
15.   Expenditure restructuring focused on: (i) reducing the wage bill to CFAF 44.1 billion by
adopting a new salary scale and keeping civil service recruitment in line with retirements, while
giving priority to the education and health sectors for the employment of new hires; (ii) reducing
scholarships from CFAF 4.5 billion to CFAF 3.8 billion and adopting new eligibility criteria to
ensure that only the most deserving students receive support; (iii) rationalizing the management
of the civil service; (iv) increasing 1997 budgetary allocations for education and health sector
non-wage current expenditures by 14 percent (from CFAF 4.6 billion for education and CFAF
7.2 billion for health in 1996 to CFAF 5.3 billion and CFAF 8.2 billion respectively in 1997) and
increasing allocations for materials and equipment for the tax collection agencies by 74 percent
in 1997 (from CFAF 459 million to CFAF 798 million); and (v) increasing the allocation for
road maintenance from CFAF 2.6 billion to CFAF 3.1 billion. In addition, with IDA assistance
the Government was to undertake a review of public expenditures in order to: (i) identify the
needs of priority sectors; (ii) strengthen expenditure programming; and (iii) improve budget
implementation procedures.
16.   A reduction of CFAF 19.4 billion in domestic payment arrears was programmed for
1997, along with a thorough inventory of domestic arrears and implementation of a plan for their
orderly settlement prepared with IDA assistance. Measures were also to be taken in order to
prevent the build-up of new arrears.



4
C. Reform of the public enterprise sector
17.   The Govermment decided to make a renewed start on the reform of the public enterprise
sector to improve the sector's financial situation and widen the scope for private activity. For
1997-98, the Govenment's program aimed at: (i) privatizing twelve enterprises, liquidating three
and restructuring eight others;2 (ii) clearing cross-debts and payment arrears between different
public enterprises and between the enterprises and the Government; and (iii) establishing an
independent unit to coordinate privatization efforts. The goals of the program were to: (i)
mobilize private investment financing to expand and increase the efficiency of service delivery;
(ii) promote private sector development by the reduction in factor costs that privatization would
bring about, particularly in the areas of energy, transport and telecommunications; and (iii)
reduce the role of the State in productive activities, which would be left to the private sector.
III. PROGRAM RESULTS
A. Macroeconomic performance
18.   Overall economic growth in 1997 was less favorable than projected (3.4 percent versus
4.3 percent) because of a drought, which caused a reduction in agricultural output and roughly a
10 percent shortfall in cereal production. This shortfall had no effect on prices because of the
distribution of food aid in the affected areas. Inflation, as measured by the average consumer
price index in Niamey, continued to decline, dropping to 3 percent in 1997 as compared to 5
percent in 1996. Based on the consumer price index, the real effective exchange rate depreciated
by 3 percent as of November 30, 1997. Despite Niger's improved competitiveness, it is
estimated that the external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) increased by
nearly one percentage point of GDP to 10 percent, primarily due to the fact that the drought
contributed to a decline in agricultural exports and an increase in imports of foodstuffs.
B. Budgetary revenue
19.   Budgetary revenues were estimated at CFAF 90.8 billion in 1997, compared to the target
of CFAF 102.1 billion (-11.1 percent). Nevertheless, this represented a significant increase
(+14.9 percent) over 1996 (CFAF 79 billion). Tax revenues amounted to CFAF 78.1 billion,
compared to the programmed amount of CFAF 92.5 billion, but again this represents a
significant increase over 1996, when the amount was CFAF 68.5 billion (+14 percent).
20.   Customs revenue amounted to CFAF 43.3 billion, compared to the projected amount of
CFAF 50.7 billion, for a 17.3 percent increase over 1996 (CFAF 36.9 billion). Internal tax
2     Privatization: NIGELEC, SNE, SONITEL, SONIDEP, SNC, SPEHG, SONITEXTIL, OLANI,
ABATTOIR, RINI, ONAHA, OFEDES
Liquidation: ONT, SONHOTEL, LABOCEL
Restructuring: ORTN, CPCT, CDN, SONICHAR, SONUCI, ONPPC, SNTN, CNUT



5
revenue came to CFAF 34.8 billion, compared to the projected amount of CFAF 41.8 billion, for
a CFAF 3.2 billion increase over 1996 (+10.1 percent).
21.   Key reasons for the shortfall in revenue mobilization were: (i) delays in adopting and
implementing some measures (see para. 22); (ii) underestimation of the timeframe involved in
preparing and adopting these measures and achieving the desired effects; (iii) delayed and partial
use of credits allocated to strengthen tax collection agencies; (iv) insufficient control of tax
exonerations; and (v) a persistently gloomy economic situation.
22.   Certain important measures envisioned by the program were only belatedly adopted,
specifically: (i) the introduction and use of a single taxpayer identification number system; (ii) a
change in the price structure for petroleum products; and (iii) the introduction of a system of
treasury checks for the payment of import duties in the context of externally financed
Government contracts. Reasons for the shortfall in customs revenue included inadequate
cooperation between customs and the imports verification agency, as well as strikes and
petroleum shortages in the transportation sector, which slowed trade flows to Niger from the
coastal countries.
23.   During the period from December 1997 to March 1998, the Government introduced
measures to recoup some of the revenue shortfall experienced in 1997, including strengthening
property tax collection procedures, accelerating the collection of tax debt, the publication of a
comprehensive list of tax defaulters in the press and their exclusion from participation in
Government procurement contracts. During the first quarter of 1998, the Government also
accelerated implementation of additional revenue mobilization measures as described in the
Letter of Development Policy prepared by the Government in August 1998 (see para. 32).
C. Wage bill
24.   For fiscal year 1997, the wage bill came to CFAF 44.2 billion, which represents a
decrease of CFAF 5.5 billion in comparison to fiscal year 1995 and which is in line with the
program objectives.3 This result was mainly achieved by adopting a new salary scale that
reduced base wages and eliminated distortions in the system of remuneration and by strictly
limiting new recruitment to departures other than voluntary departures. In addition, a thorough
civil service census was carried out in 1997, albeit with some delay; this resulted in the dismissal
of 319 civil servants whose status was found to be irregular and led to the integration of the civil
service database and payroll files.
D. Other budgetary expenditures
25.   With respect to execution of non-wage expenditures, the results were mixed.
The amount of the 1996 wage bill cannot serve as the basis for comparison for 1997 (see Footnote 1 on the
one-time agreement between the Government and the trade unions concerning wage payments every 42
days).
/



6
26.   Expenditures for subsidies and transfers came to CFAF 12.8 billion, whereas the
objective was CFAF 9.3 billion. This overrun can be attributed to inadequate control over the
expenditures of certain entities capable of exerting strong socio-political pressure (ORTN,
University, ENA, etc.). However, expenditures for university scholarships were reduced to
CFAF 3.2 billion, while the objective was CFAF 3.8 billion.
27.   Equipment expenditures came to CFAF 34.7 billion, compared to the projected amount of
CFAF 33.2 billion.
28.   Non-wage expenditures for the education and health sectors (payment orders basis)
increased by about 12 percent on average in 1997.
29.   Road maintenance expenditures came to CFAF 1.1 billion, compared to the programmed
amount of CFAF 2.7 billion.
30.   Public investment expenditures totaled CFAF 54.7 billion in 1997 and their execution
rate was 64 percent, an increase over 1996 (51 percent).
31.   Clearing of domestic arrears identified and validated by the Treasury was projected to
reach CFAF 19.4 billion. In fact, the Government cleared CFAF 13.8 billion in 1997 and CFAF
11.8 billion during the first half of 1998, mainly through settlement of cross-debts and with
external financial assistance specifically targeted at clearing arrears in the social sectors. In
1997, the Government made substantial progress in preparing a thorough inventory of domestic
arrears and a plan for their settlement (these were finalized in July 1998), and in identifying
measures to prevent any new build-up of domestic arrears (these are now being implemented). A
reduction of CFAF 40.8 billion in external arrears was programmed in 1997 but, as a result of
severe cash flow problems, there was instead a net increase of CFAF 1.9 billion (a reduction of
CFAF 8.7 billion was more than offset by CFAF 10.6 billion in new arrears). The programmed
reduction was based on the assumption that rescheduling arrangements would be concluded and
implemented with certain multilateral donors (specifically BADEA, BOAD and the OPEC
Special Fund) and other bilateral donors who are non-members of the Club de Paris. There were
difficulties in negotiating most of these arrangements, and the cash flow problems hampered
implementation of the arrangements that were reached.
32.  In 1998, the Government pursued its efforts efforts to maintain strict control over public
expenditures and restore its financial credibility. These efforts include strict compliance with
expenditure procedures, a program to rehabilitate the Treasury, adoption of a regulatory
mechanism to keep expenditure commitments in line with actual budgetary receipts and the
adoption of measures to contain and better control expenditures that are sources of domestic
arrears. This reform program could be supported by an IDA adjustment credit currently under
preparation (see the Letter of Development Policy of August 1998 for details). Finally, the
Government has launched a participatory process to conduct a review of public expenditures
which, in 1997-98, has focused on the education and health sectors, as well as budgetary
programming and execution procedures. The Government has begun to implement the



7
recommendations identified during this review.
E. Privatization program
33.  In October 1996, the Government adopted a privatization program targeting twelve public
enterprises. In general, delays in carrying out certain actions occurred during the second and
third quarters of 1997, primarily due to the weakness of the Government's technical and financial
capacities and insufficient coordination among the principal entities responsible for
implementing the reforms, but also due to the limited financial resources available for conducting
the necessary preliminary studies.
34.  In late 1997, the Government attempted to make up for the delays in implementing the
privatization program. In November 1997, the Government signed a memorandum of
understanding with the World Bank which spelled out the modalities of the privatization
program, and a strict new timetable was prepared. In addition, a PPF was set up on December
31, 1997 to finance certain studies and technical assistance, and a privatization support project
was prepared. This memorandum reflected the Government's commitment to complete the
process and make up for lost time. Simultaneously, an institutional reorganization was carried
out and the entities responsible for the program were strengthened in order to adhere to the new
privatization timetable.
35.  In terms of the legal framework, significant progress was made in resolving preconditions
for implementing the privatization process through the following actions: Ordinance 97-24
detailing the modalities for the legal disposition of enterprises to be privatized; Decree 97-
429/PRN/MF/RE/P appointing managing directors; the development of a general approach for
addressing retrenchment issues and for settling land issues.
36.   By July 31, 1998, the privatization process had achieved the following results:
*  OLANI (dairy products company): Opening and analysis of bids and awarding of sale
contract during the first quarter of 1998. The sale was completed on May 31, 1998.
*  SNC (cement company): Opening and analysis of bids and awarding of sale contract in April
1998. The sale took effect in July 1998.
*  Abattoir (slaughterhouse): Since the request for proposals elicited no interest, the operation
is being reconsidered on terms more favorable to investors.
*  SONIDEP (petroleum products import and distribution company): A memorandum of
understanding was signed on December 19, 1997 by the Government and representatives of
four private distributors to establish a new private sector company responsible for managing
all petroleum storage facilities. The National Assembly adopted the law on the import,
storage, export, distribution and marketing of petroleum products. In addition, the process of
restructuring SONIDEP got under way in December 1997 with the recruitment of a
consultant responsible for conducting a study of the planned restructuring and the completion
of the study in April 1998.
* SNE (water company): The pre-qualification procedure for compiling a limited list of
potential strategic partners capable of participating in the capital of the private company was



8
successfully carried out, and two bidders were selected to participate in the final request for
proposals. Also, in November 1997 external financing for financial studies related to
implementation of the reform was confirmed. During the first quarter of 1998, the following
actions were taken: (i) issuance of a limited request for proposals for the recruitment of a
consortium to implement the subsector reform; (ii) issuance of a limited request for proposals
for the recruitment of a consultant to study the willingness and capacity of residents to pay
and the elasticity of demand; and (iii) the start of the audit of 1996 and 1997 accounts. A
memorandum of understanding on the State's net arrears vis-a-vis SNE was finalized in
January 1998.
*  NIGELEC (power generation and distribution company): The privatization option was
adopted by the Government and a limited request for proposals was issued for the recruitment
of: (i) a consortium to implement privatization of the enterprise and (ii) a consultant to
develop a new regulatory framework for the electric power subsector in Niger.  A
memorandum of understanding on the State's net arrears vis-a-vis NIGELEC was finalized in
September 1997.
*  SONITEL (telecommunications company): Discussions of the strategy for privatizing the
telecommunications sector have highlighted the need to restructure the sector prior to any
privatization.  In this context, a draft regulatory and institutional framework for the
telecommunications sector and terms of reference for preparing specifications for the
telecommunications field have been developed. Bids have already been examined for
selecting the investment bank and the consortium that will be responsible for the regulatory
framework and the market study.   Lastly, the letter of sector policy for the
telecommunications field is now being finalized.
F. Liquidation and restructuring program
37.   SONHOTEL was dissolved by Ordinance 97-013 and liquidated by Decree 97-162. In
this context, the following actions were carried out: indemnification of personnel, divestiture of
the Grand Hotel and the Hotel du Sahel based on competitive bidding, debt recovery.
LABOCEL was also dissolved; the veterinary research component was transferred to INRAN
while the veterinary products and equipment supply and distribution component was liquidated.
A draft law to dissolve ONT was prepared in July 1998 for adoption by the National Assembly.
38.   The objective of the restructuring program was to rectify the enterprises' financial
imbalance by introducing measures to improve resource mobilization and reduce costs. In
certain cases, an institutional and/or structural reform was required to bring a particular
enterprise's activity more in line with the current economic context.
39.   The principal restructuring measures taken to date are as follows:
*  SNTN (national transportation company): The enterprise's urban transport activities have
been transferred to a company with private participation. The transfer of inter-urban
transport activities and the refocusing of industrial activities are in progress.
*  ONPPC (national pharmaceutical company): Liberalization of the pharmaceutical sector
took effect in early 1997. The process of dividing the company into three entities is under



9
way: the laboratory entity was created by Ordinance 96-77 of December 11, 1996; for the
production entity, a private company was selected for a partnership contract based on a
request for partnership proposals; for the supply and distribution entity, a rehabilitation
program is under way, as well as studies to determine the legal framework most appropriate
to the national environment.
*  OPVN (food security stock agency): Restructuring is being carried out by: (i) replenishing
the level of security inventories; (ii) transferring warehouses unused by OPVN to the State;
(iii) upgrading the information system; and (iv) reducing costs (in particular, reducing the
wage bill by 15 percent).
* CPCT (credit agency): The principal actions carried out to date concern: (i) preparation of
draft statutes to transform CPCT into a company with private participation; (ii) negotiations
with collectivities to reach debt settlement agreements; and (iii) intensified recovery of
unpaid debt.
*  SONUCI (urban planning and real estate building company): The principal actions carried
out to date are as follows:  (i) a search for shareholders to increase capital; (ii) the
development of a project to construct 50 housing units; (iii) reorganization of lease
agreements; and (iv) reduction of operating costs.
*  CREDIT DU NIGER (credit agency): The restructuring plan has produced the following
results: (i) revision of the organizational structure; (ii) suspension of transportation
allowances and promotions during the period of the restructuring plan; and (iii) compulsory
domiciliation of the salaries of CDN borrowers before any credit is extended. In addition, the
process of reducing costs is under way, specifically through staff reductions.
*  ORTN (national television): The objectives of the restructuring effort are to reduce costs (by
making the organizational structure less cumbersome and by halting new recruitment) and
increase revenue (by charging the Government and its offshoots for services rendered and by
setting up a collection team).
.  ONPE  (national postal and  savings office):   In  restructuring  the postal and
telecommunications sector, three entities have been created: SONITEL, the Postal and
Telecommunications Direction (Direction de la Reglementation des Postes et de la
Thl&communication) and the National Postal and Savings Office (Office National des Postes
et de l'Epargne: ONPE), comprising the postal branch of the forrner OPT and the former
CNE. For ONPE, a rehabilitation plan was developed with the objective of (i) improving
ONPE financial situation, and (ii) making ONPE profitable over time. In October 1997, the
Board of Directors adopted this plan and a new salary scale that translates into a 7 percent cut
in the wage bill.
IV. EVALUATION OF RESULTS AND ASSESSMENT OF CONSTRAINTS
40.   The results achieved by the public finance component of the program are satisfactory.
Substantial progress was made in mobilizing budgetary revenues (a 14.9 percent increase over
1996) although they remained below the targeted amount (by 11.1 percent). In addition,
significant progress was made in reducing the wage bill by about 11 percent and increasing
current non-wage expenditures for priority sectors, particularly education and health. However,



10
expenditures for subsidies and transfers exceeded projections, reflecting inadequate control over
these socially sensitive expenditures. Spending for road maintenance did not match the priority
assigned to this sector. Considerable progress was achieved in reducing domestic arrears
validated by the Treasury and in preparing a thorough inventory of payment arrears, as well as an
overall plan for their settlement. The Government carried out a review of public expenditures
with support from the World Bank and other donors; the recommendations identified during this
review will be implemented in 1998-99.
41.   After a vigorous start in late 1996 and early 1997, the privatization program ran into
delays in mid-1997 as a result of the Government's weak technical and financial capacities but
also due to organizational shortcomings. Poor communication was also a major factor in
delaying program implementation. Notwithstanding these obstacles, the Government accelerated
implementation of the privatization program in late 1997 and early 1998 and completed the first
sales of public enterprises. A communication program was also developed with Bank assistance
and its implementation is now under way.
42.   Three major constraints impeded program implementation. First, it was a mediocre crop
year, resulting in slower growth of real GDP and an increase in public expenditures to supply
areas experiencing food shortages. Second, public investment has been slow to recover because
the resumption of multilateral and bilateral cooperation has remained timid and the preparation
of a project pipeline has proven to be a lengthy process. Third, the low level of disbursements of
external budgetary support has significantly hindered program implementation, exerting constant
pressure on cash flow, impeding efforts to put public finances in good order and deferring
resolution of the problem of domestic arrears.
43.   However, the relatively modest nature of the results described above should not obscure
three significant positive elements. First, the developments that took place during the second
half of 1997 indicate that the program is gradually reaching full speed and that program
objectives will be met, albeit with some delay. Second, faced with apparent shortcomings, the
Government adopted the necessary corrective measures and gave a very clear signal of its
determination to intensify and complete the adjustment process. Third, the two elements cited
above suggest that agencies and officials are gradually internalizing the program, which is a very
positive development for the continued implementation of the program.
V.   RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES AND LESSONS TO BE DRAWN FROM
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM
A. Borrower performance
44.   Clearly, the issue of responsibility for the weak impact of the structural adjustment
program should not be ignored. Yet any assessment of responsibility should be viewed in
relative terms, given the severe impediments faced by Niger, as explained above in para. 40.



11
45.   Shortcomings in coordinating preparation and implementation of the reforms are one of
the factors underlying the delays that have occurred. Corrections were made, and clear progress
has been achieved ever since. However, coordination of the economic reform program could
benefit from further strengthening.
46.   Based on the lessons learned during PSAC implementation and the need to consolidate
and deepen the adjustment efforts, the Government intends to emphasize the following areas in
1998-99: (i) ensuring the irreversibility of the adjustment program and rigorous monitoring of
the actions undertaken; (ii) continuing efforts to combat tax evasion and reduce tax exonerations;
(iii) restoring budgetary orthodoxy; (iv) improving the efficiency of public expenditures; and (v)
strengthening communication efforts.
47.   Delays and shortfalls in mobilizing external budgetary support that was initially projected
had a significant impact on program implementation, as mentioned above in para. 40.
48.   Strong and diversified support from Niger's development partners will be necessary for
public investment to recover. This support should not be limited to projects, but should also
encompass assistance for project preparation and implementation. Within the framework of the
Economic Recovery Program, efforts should be made to accelerate the recovery of public
investment and to make projects more effective in terms of their impact on the economy, the
living conditions of the population, the availability of and accessibility to basic social services,
and the maintenance and extension of infrastructure.
49.   Consultation with all social and economic partners and effective communication are of
critical importance in defining and implementing reforms in all areas, particularly with respect to
public finance and the privatization program. To ensure effective communication, support from
development partners, most particularly the World Bank, is indispensable.
B. World Bank performance
50.   Overall, the performance of the World Bank was satisfactory during the stages of
program identification, preparation, evaluation and supervision. In particular, the Bank very
quickly detected problems in coordinating program implementation and delays in the
privatization program. The Bank provided support to the Government in assessing the status of
public finances and responded very rapidly to the need for assistance in this area.
VI. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
51.   The results achieved should be considered sustainable insofar as the Government has not
reversed the measures taken prior to credit approval, has strived to carry out the program of
reforms in 1997-98 and remains determined to consolidate the progress achieved to date.



