Report No. PIC4568
Project Name                   Niger-Public Sector Adjustment Credit (@)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Public Sector Management
Project ID                     NEPA1974
Implementing Agency            Government of Niger
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Date PID Prepared              January 21, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       February 1997
Projected Board Date           March 27, 1997
Country Background
1.   Since the end of the uranium boom in the early 1980s, Niger's
economic performance has been weak despite the adoption of a number of
adjustment programs. Amidst short cycles of recovery and downturns,
real GDP declined by about one-half of one percent per annum during
1983-1993, and poverty increased significantly over the same period.
This poor economic performance was the outcome of not only external
factors--a decline in the demand and price of uranium exports and
recurrent droughts--but also the result of the real appreciation of the
CFA franc until 1994, inefficient economic management, low levels of
national saving and investment, and weak human resources.
Country's Adjustment Program
2.   In 1994, to reverse the downward economic trend of recent years,
the Government resumed its adjustment effort through a combination of
external and internal measures designed to generate steady economic
growth with low inflation. The January 1994 adjustment of the parity of
the CFA franc was a key element of this strategy. The broad objectives
of the Government's medium-term economic and financial adjustment
program are to make further progress in stabilizing public finances and
to foster an economic environment conducive to sustainable growth and
poverty reduction. This strategy aims at preserving the competitiveness
gains resulting from the CFA franc devaluation through strict fiscal and
monetary policies as well as accelerated structural reforms to provide
a greater role for the private sector.
Project Objectives
3.   The principal goal of the proposed adjustment credit is to assist
the Government in further stabilizing public finances and deepening the
scope of reforms implemented during the 1980s under previous adjustment
programs. The reform measures fall into two categories: fiscal policy
and public enterprise privatization. On the fiscal side, the proposed
credit will assist the authorities in their continuing efforts to expand
the tax base, simplify the tax system and improve collection through a
substantial strengthening of the tax administration. This revenue
policy will be accompanied by a significant reduction in the wage bill



as well as a reallocation of expenditures towards supplies and
maintenance for essential public services. It will also include the
rapid and orderly settlement of payments arrears (both domestic and
external) in order to rebuild private sector confidence.
4.   The credit will also support the government's public enterprise
privatization program through: (i) preparation of sector strategies and
the regulatory framework for the public utilities and the petroleum
company; and (ii) completion of valuation and preparation of
solicitation documents for some enterprises. Prior to Board
presentation, the Government will submit to IDA a Letter of Development
Policy outlining this adjustment program.
Project Implementation
5.   The Government has established a High Interministerial Committee to
oversee the design and implementation of the adjustment program. The
program is implemented and monitored by three separate government
technical committees in charge of public finances, civil service reform
and public enterprise privatization and restructuring. Implementation
of measures initiated for this credit would be monitored by IDA in
connection with a subsequent adjustment operation scheduled for FY98,
and in the context of IDA's overall Country Assistance Strategy.
Project Costs and Financing
6.   A credit equivalent to US$ million would be disbursed in one
tranche and would follow the Bank's new simplified disbursement
procedures for structural adjustment operations.
Environmental Impact
7.   No negative environmental impact is expected from the proposed
project.
Poverty Category
8.   The proposed credit will contribute to poverty reduction by
supporting policies designed to accelerate broad-based income growth and
increase the availability and quality of basic social services. The
restructuring of public expenditures will contribute to improved access
to basic preventive health and education services nationwide and clean
water in urban centers. The economic reform program, in particular PE
privatization, would indirectly benefit the poor by improving the
environment for economic growth and thereby increasing job
opportunities. The positive economic impacts of more efficient
electricity and telecommunications services and lower electricity and
petroleum prices will reduce these primary factor costs, thereby
improving Niger's competitiveness and growth prospects.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
- 2 -



Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 31, 1997.
- 3 -



