Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2939 NIR
                          Development Credit Agreement
                        (Public Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                   between
                               REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                     and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              Dated March 20, 1997
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2939 NIR
                            DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 20, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association):
     WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February
14, 1997, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
economy through the improvement of the management, accountability and
efficiency of the Borrowers public sector (hereinafter called the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program; and requesting the assistance of the Association in the
financing of the Program; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association
has decided, in support of the Program, to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the Credit in one single tranche as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
Page  2
          " 'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble
          to the Development Credit Agreement, in support of which
          the Credit is made.";
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (c)  Section 4.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
          agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
          the currency of the deposit account specified in Section
          2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.";
     (d)  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of
          the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the
          provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these
          General Conditions";
     (e) The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
     (f)  Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified
below), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06 and 9.07.
     (g)  Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
          later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
          Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
          furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
          such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
          the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to
          the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
          Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
          under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
          of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Franc de la Communaute Financire Africaine" and "CFAF" mean
the currency of the Borrower; and
     (b)  "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR21,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to
the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit
Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account
in CFAF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Associa-
tion into the Deposit Account.
     (b)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit
Account in support of the Program.
Page  3
     (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement. If the Association shall have
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Asso-
ciation. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15, commencing July
15, 2007, and ending January 15, 2037.  Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 15, 2017 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration
by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)  requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repay-
Page  4
ment of principal.
     (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of The French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                             Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association
on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the
Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
     Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
     (b)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the date of the Association's
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.
                               ARTICLE IV
                    Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                              ARTICLE V
                             Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Page  5
                             ARTICLE VI
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Son .Excellence
          Le Premier Ministre
          Primature
          BP 893
          Niamey
          Republique du Niger
                                         Fax:
                                         227 735859
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, NW
          Washington, DC 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
               INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
               Washington, DC            248423 (RCA)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                    By /s/ Adamou Seydou
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                            Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following
expenditures:
     1.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
Page  6
     2.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed
to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed
or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
     3.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the
Association by notice to the Borrower:
     Group     Subgroup       Description of Items
     112          -           Alcoholic beverages
     121          -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                              refuse
     122          -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                              not containing tobacco substitutes)
     525          -           Radioactive and associated materials
     667          -           Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                              stones, unworked or worked
     718       718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                              fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                              irradiated, for nuclear reactors
     728       728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
     897       897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                              group metals (except watches and
                              watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                              silversmiths' wares (including
                              set gems)
     971          -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                              ores and concentrates);
     4.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
     5.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods.  For
purposes of this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods"
means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited
under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party and any other goods designated as environ-
mentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association;
     6.   expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
     7.   expenditures under a contract in respect of which the
Association determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary
of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract,
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
Page  7
