FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 128a-SE
APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SENEGAL
June 4, 1973
Regional Projecte Department
k4estern Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =             CFA Franc (CFAF)
1 US$                   =              CFAF 230.2
100 CFAF                =              US$0.43
WEIGI{TS AND MEASURES
1 ha                     =             2.47 acres
1 km                     =             0.62 mile
l ton                    =             2,204 pounds
1 long ton               =              1.016 metric tons
= 2,240 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDS     =  Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
National Development Bank of Senegal
CCCE     =  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
French Financing Agency for Economic Cooperation
FAC      =  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
French Development Aid Agency
FED      =  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
European Development Fund
IRAT     =  Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
et des cultuires vivrieres
Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture and food crops
IRCT     =  Institut de Recherches pour le Coton et les Fibres Textiles
Research Institute for Cotton and Textile Fibers
IRHO     =  Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
Research Institute for Vegetable Oils
OCAS     =  Office de Commercialisation Agricole du Senegal
Agricultural Marketing Agency of Senegal
ONCAD       Office National de Cooreration et D'Assistance pour le
Developpement
Office of Cooperatives and Development Assistance
SATEC    =  Societe D'Aide Technique et de Cooperation
Bureau for Technical Assistance and Cooperation
SFS      =  Societe Fiduciaire Suisse
Swiss Accounting Bureau
SISCOMA  =  Societe Industrielle Senegalaise de Construction
M.echanique et de Materiels Agricoles
Senegalese Company for Mechanical Construction and
Farm Implement Manufacturing
SODEVA   =  Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarization Agricole
Agricultural Development Agency
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .........................................    i
I,         INTRODUCTION ............................ * ,.*    1
II.        BACKGROUND       1.       .......... .
A. General...    1
B.  Agricultural Sector.....                                      2
III.       THE FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT 3.                 .3
A. Background.                                                    3
B.   Physical Achievements Under the First Project                4
C.   Organization and Maanagement Performance .....7
D.   Evaluation of the First Project         ...    ........    8
IV.        THE PROJECT                      .......................         10
A.   Project Area ......................... ..        .          10
B. Project Description   .                  .10
C.   Detailed Features ........................                  il
- Medium-Term Credit.                                      il
- Equipment, Buildings and Technical Assistance ..   12
- Studies . .......     ..       ..     ..     ..13
V.         COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .................... .              14
A.   Cost Estimates .............. ..... .                       14
B. Financing                  .. .15
C. Credit Arrangements              .. .16
D.   Procurement       .      ......... . .. .......             16
E. Disbursement .                     .                          17
F. Accounts and Audits. .                                        18
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .18
VII.       CROP PRICES, YIELDS, PRODUCTION AND FARMER INCOMES,
AND IMPACT OF PROJECT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET                       20
A. Crop Prices and Markets.                                      20
B. Yields    ...21
C. Farmer Benefits                . . .21
D. Production                 ...22
E.   Impact of Project on Government Budget..                    23
VIII.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................   23
IX.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November/December
1972, composed of Messrs. A. Otten, C. Bourgin, P. Esmiol and R. Key (IDA).






Annexes
1.    Agriculture in Senegal
Appendix 1  Fertilizer Survey
2   Sine-Saloum Feasibility Study
3   Groundnut Seeds Storage Study
Table 1 - Groundnuts and Cereals Production
Table 2 - Impact of Farm Implements on Labor Requirements
Table 3 - Yields of Crops under Supervised Conditions
2.    National Development Bank of Senegal (BNDS)
Table 1 - Loan Portfolio
Table 2 - Income Statements, Profit and Loss Accounts
Table 3 - Balance Sheets
Table 4 - Cash flows resulting from First Agricultural Credit Project
Table 5 - Combined Cash flow resulting from the First and Second
Agricultural Credit Projects
Table 6 - Sources and Applications of Funds
Chart   - Organization Chart of BNDS
3.    National Office for Cooperatives and Development Assistance (ONCAD)
Appendix 1   Terms of Reference for the Consultants for ONCAD
Reorganization
Table 1 - Balance Sheets
Table 2 - Income Statements, Profit and Loss Accounts
Charts - Distribution Objectives for Permanent Staff, Number and Functions
- Organization Chart of ONCAD
4.    Cost Estimates
Table 1 - Detailed Cost Estimates
Table 2 - Credit Purchases of Farm Implements and Draft Animals
Table 3 - Technical Assistance Costs
Table 4 - Equipment List
Table 5 - Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
5.    Price and Marketing Structure
Table 1 - Financial and Economic Prices for Groundnuts at Farmgate
Table 2 - Price and Marketing Structure for Millet
Table 3 - Price and Marketing Structure for Rice
Table 4 - Price and Marketing Structure for Cotton
6.    Farm Budgets
Table 1 - Farm of 6 ha in Central Groundnut Basin
Table 2 - Farm of 20 ha in Southern Groundnut Basin
7.    Production Estimates
8.    Government Cash Flow
9.    Economic Rate of Return
Maps






SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Senegal has suffered a difficult time over the last six years as
a consequence of three severe droughts which have reduced agrieultural produc-
tion in general, but that of groundnuts, the country's main cash crop and
export earner, in particular. Although other sectors of the economy have
made significant advances, especially manufacturing and tourism, the economy
is still mainly dependent on groundnuts.  Even at low 1970 production levels,
the crop accounted for 14% of GDP and over 40% of total exports in that year.
As a result of the drought years, per capita income has declined from US$277
in 1960 to US$250 in 1971.
ii.       Since 1964 Government has operated a Groundnut and Millet Produc-
tivity Program, known as the "Programme Agricole" (PA). PA has been the
spearhead of Government's effort to increase the productivity of, and the
areas under these crops: groundnuts for cash and export, and millet for sub-
sistence and domestic food supplies. Under PA, fertilizer, improved seeds,
and animal-drawn farm implements have been available to farmers on credit,
and a strong extension service has been developed to promote improved cul-
tivation methods. The Bank Group firet assisted PA in 1968 when it made a
combined credit and loan totalling US$9.5 million for the purpose of finan-
cing farm implements, and the strengthening of PA institutions, in particular
the National Development Bank of Senegal (BNDS), the Agricultural Development
Agency (SODEVA) and the Office of Cooperatives and Development Assistance
(ONCAD), during the 1968-72 period. The performance of these institutions
has improved substantially, but the droughts of 1968, 1970 and 1972 resulted
in general declines in agricultural production; which in the case of ground-
nuts was accelerated by a sharp fall in farmgate prices brought about by
Government's over-reaction to a temporary fall in export prices for groundnuts.
As a result, the demand for farm implements was significantly lover in the
project period than in previous years, and much below appraisal estimates.
Consequently the loan portion of the Bank Group's assistance, amounting to
US$3.5 million, was cancelled in early 1971 on the grounds that it could not
be used within a reasonable period. Disbursement of remaining IDA Credit
funds for farm implements is expected to be completed by the middle of 1973,
about a year behind appraisal estimates.
iii.      While crop production in the project period was below appraisal
estimates, the Bank Group's financing of farm implements has been justified
since, despite adverse weather conditions, the equipment so financed has
permitted its operators to achieve production levels higher than they vould
have obtained without the use of the equipment.  While a decline in demand
for implements occurred during the project period when groundnut prices were
low, good groundnut prices in 1971 and 1972 resulted both in an increased
demand for farm inputs including equipment, and an expansion of the area
under groundnuts. As Government has committed itself to maintaining farmgate
prices for groundnuts at remunerative levels in the future and because the



- i -
forecasted declines in international prices for groundnuts do not appear to
inhibit it from doing so, demand for farm implements is expected to remain
at least at current levels and continued IDA assistance to PA thus justified.
iv.       The proposed project would continue to assist PA by financing 75%
of subloans made by BNDS for the purchase of animal-drawn inplements - mainly
seeders, hoes, ploughs, groundnut lifters and multipurpose toolbars - over
the three year period 1973 through 1975. The project would also provide
the equipment and technical assistance required to consolidate the progress
achieved in improving the performance of SODEVA and ONCAD with funds
pruvided under Credit 140-SE. The project would also include studies aimed
at developing a more rational fertilizer policy, improved seed storage and
distribution programs, as well as a regîonal rural development project.
v.        Project costs are estimated at USSl1.5 millior, with a foreign
exchange component of US$5.6 million. Farm implements (US$8.4 million) and
draft animals (US$0.9 million) make up about 81% of total project costs, and
equipment and technical assistance provided to proîect organizations and
needed for studies make up the remaining 19% (US$2.2 million).
vi.       An IDA Credit of US$8.2 million is proposed whiïcl would finance 71%
of total project costs or about 80% of project costs net of import duties and
taxes. Of the IDA Credit TJS$6.3 million would be on-lent by Government to
BNDS at the Central Bank discount rate (currently 5.5%), for a term of 20 years,
including four years of grace. BNDS would make subloans to farmers at the
Central Bank discount rate plus two percentage points (i.e. 7.5% interest
per annum at present), to be repaid over a four-year period. The difference
in interest rates and repayment periods would permit BNDS to finance credit
demand under PA out of its own resources after cepnrietion of the project,
thus enabling it to achieve the greater degree of flnancial autonomy that it
needs to develop effective lending programs, Remaining project costs would
be covered by BNDS out of its own resources (27% or US$3.1 million) and by
Covernment contributions (2% or USSO.2 million).
vii.      Under the first project procurement contracts for farm implements
and carts were submitted by ONCAD to international competitive tender, ONCAD
assembled one sîngle order for implements each year in order to attract as
wide a range of suppliers as possible.  liîs procedure has been beset by
frequent delays in orderîng and late arrival of equipment in the field, and
farmers refusing to accept delivery. Moreover, the only bids received for
farm implements have been from SISCOMA, a local manufacturer. In the case of
carts, competition has been somewhat wider, but only Senegalese manufacturers
tendered.  SISCOMA implements have been developed and proven under Senegalese
conditions, and are well-liked by the farmers. It is proposed that under the
second credit, an exception be made to international competltîve bidding with
respect to farm implements and that new procurement arrangements be employed
which would permit ONCAD to negotiate contracts each year directly with SISCOMA
and thus avoid problens that have arisen wîth the coordination of ordering and



- iii -
delivery of equipment. Procurement of carts, with an estimated value of
US$3.8 million, and equipment for project organizations, estimated at US$0.5
million, would be through competitive bidding following the Bank Group guide-
lines on procurement.
viii.          Representative farm models have been developed which indicate that
farmers using animal-drawn implements would increase their incomes by an
average of about 50%. It is estimated that about 55,000 farm families, or
about 15% of Senegal's farming population, would benefit from the project.
ix.       The economic rate of return from investment in the project is
calculated at 22%. Increases of 15% in implement costs, combined with de-
creases in the value of output of 30%, would be necessary to reduce the rate
of return to below 10%; such a combination of circumstances is considered
unlikely. It is estimated further that increased production of groundnuts,
millet, sorghum, rice and cotton under the project would generate net for-
eign exchange earnings of about US$4.0 million annually.
x.        The project ls suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.2 million to the
Republic of Senegal.






SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Senegal has asked IDA to continue its assistance
to "Programme Agricole" which is aimed at increasing agricultural production
and productivity through making available fertilizer, lmproved seeds and
animal-drawn farm implements to farmers on credit, and by providing extension
services to promote improved cultivation methods. IDA's participation in
PA would be to finance farm implements and measures aimed at strengthening
project institutions over the 1973/74 - 1975/76 period. Assistance for this
purpose by the Bank Group was started under the first agricultural credit
project (140-SE) which covered the 1969/70 - 1972/73 period. Progress of
operations financed by this credit and their impact on production are de-
scribed in Chapter III. The proposed second agricultural credit project
would be the Bank Group's fifth operation in the agricultural sector. The
first was the original agricultural credit project, which was aimed mainly
at increasing groundnut and millet production; the other three IDA financed
projects are helping to develop and diversify agriculture in other areas.
The Casamance Rice Project (252-SE) and the Terres Neuves Settlement Project
(254-SE) were both started in early 1972, and are progressing satisfactorily.
The Senegal River Polders Project (350-SE) seeks to develop rice and vegetable
production through the construction of irrigated polders in the Senegal Delta
region; it was approved in January 1973.
1.02      The feasibility study for the second agricultural credit project
vas prepared by the Bank's Permanent Mission in West Africa (PMWA). This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Senegal
in November/December 1972, comprising Messrs. A. J. Otten, C. Bourgin,
P. Esmiol and R. Key (IDA).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic gf Senegal, on the western coast of Africa, has a
land area of 197,000 km . Topography is flat and vegetation changes from
desert in the north to moderately heavy forest in the south, corresponding
to a rainfall range of 300-1,500 mm annually. Wet and dry seasons are very
pronounced. Over 85% of total rainfall is in the July-September period
and rainfall fluctuates considerably from one year to the other, with
droughts occurring on average in one year out of four.
2.02      Population is about 4.1 million and growing at an estimated 2.2%
per annum. However, increases of up to 6% per year are taking place in the
larger towns; and close to 1 million people, or almost 25% of the population,



- 2 -
3ive in or around Dakar, the capital.  While o-ver the last decade GDP rose
cut '.4% per year, the ïncrease was slower than population growth, and per
capita incorae declî-ned from CFAF 69,300 'US$277) in 1960 to CFAF 62,600
<`S$250)  n 1971 (at nW97I prices).  Most of the decliine occurred in the
1965-70 Derîod, and resulted from a series of droughts that adversely
affected groundnut iroduction, Senegal's principal cash crop. The indus-
trî.al sector, relatîvely advanced as compared to other West Afrîcan coun-
tries, has increased output at some 7% per year since 1965; and about half
of the increase has gone into exports.  Tourism developmeat has also begun
to take place.  These growth sectors, however, at present contribute less
than 14%7 to GD? and have not been able to compensate for the slow develop-
ment of the primary sector.  Groundnuts remain the country's main cash
and export crop, and even in the drought year of 1970 groundnuts accounted
for 14% of CDP and over 40% of total exports.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture plays the central role Ln Senegal's economic life.
Accounting for only 30-35% of CLDP, ît provides over 50% of total exports
în either original or in processed form, and about 70% of the total labor
force is engaged in rural activities. Rural incomes are low, averaging
about CFAF 25,000 per capita in 1971. Even so, the sector's leverage on
the economy is considerable through its impact on demand for locally pro-
duced goods and services.
2.04      More than 90% of all cultivated land is devoted to groundnuts
and millet, cultivated in rotation, mostly withLvf. 150 km of Dakar in the
so-called Groundnut Basin. Within the Basin,, there is a sharp distinction
between northerr, and southern zones.  The nortlhern half, -which receives on
average less than 650 mwn of annual rainfEall, is Ge..isely settled and has
suffered severely during the recent cycle of drought years. By contrast,
the southern and south-eastern zones, where rainfall is better and averages
900-1,500 mam, îs far less heavily populated (see Arniex 1).
2.05      Government's development strategy for agriculture consists princi-
pally of (1) increasinc groundnut and millet production, especially in the
higher rainf ali areas of Cne Groundnut Basin through schemes such as the
Sine-SaLoumu production improvement project, and (2) promoting diversified
agricultural production in new settlement areas such as rice, cotton and
fruits in Casamance and Southeastern Senegal, and in areas with an irriga-
tion potential such as along the Senegal River in the north (see Map).
Diversification programs have been underway only since 1969, but already
results îndicate a favorable future, in particular for cotton and rice.
The diversification programs, however, extend to only about 5% of farmers,
most of these outside the Groundnut Basin.  Wîthin most of the Groundnut
Basin, diversificat±or. possibilities are very limited due to low and er-
ratic raînfahZ to whIi.c  t.:e traditional combination of millet, the staple
cereal, and               _ne s  - -he principal cash crop, are eminently suited.
Consequently, O    .          polîcy of sponsoring productîvity improvements



- 3 -
for groundnuts and millet within the Groundnut Basin is the only practical
means of improving the well-being of people living in these densely populated
areas. Government's policy is particularly sound in so far as in addition
to such programs in heavily populated areas it ls attempting to encourage
development and settlement in climatically suitable regions where a more
diversified agriculture is possible. The Bank Group is assisting in this
through its involvement in the Casamance and Terres Neuves Projects.
2.06      Overall responsibility for agricultural development in Senegal resta
with the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD), but numerous semi-autonomous
agencies operate in the fields of production, extension and marketing for
specifie crops or in specific areas. Three such agencies play critical roles
in "Programme Agricole" (PA). They are:
a.   the National Development Bank of Senegal (BNDS), which
provides seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers;
b.   the National Office for Cooperatives and Development
Assistance (ONCAD), which has a monopoly of groundnut
marketing, and which is responsible for supplying inputs
to farners, and general supervision of the cooperative
movement; and
C.   the Agricultural Development Agency (SODEVA) which provides
the basic extension services for farmers in the Groundnut
Basin.
III. THE FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      "Programme Agricole" (PA) is a central feature of Government's
rural development strategy. Started in the early 1960's, it represents
Government's major rural development effort in the Groundnut Basin and is
aimed at increasing groundnut and millet yields as well as expanding the
area under cultivation with these crops where this is possible. PA makes
animal-drawn implements, fertilizer and improved seeds available to farmers
at reasonably low cost and provides an extension service to promote the
correct use of these inputs. Over the years PA has evolved into a compre-
hensive system involving cooperatives, credit, marketing, extension and
price intervention.
3.02      Under PA over 80% of all Senegalese farmers have been organized
into cooperatives to facilitate the provision of inputs and the marketing
of groundnuts. This process was completed in 1967 when ONCAD was granted
a monopoly for the purchase of groundnuts and their delivery to oil mille.
ONCAD distributes seed to farmers, and fertilizer and farm implements to



- 4 -
cooperatives un<-:z crec it arrangements financed by BNDS with ONCAD deduct-
ing farmers' repayaments for inputs from their groundnut sales receipts.
SODEVA provides the extension services.
3.03      Government's intervention in prices has been twofold.  First, the
faringate price of groundnuts has been set consistently below the correspond-
ing export price and the difference transferred to a groundnut price stabili-
zation fund.  This fund, although intended for price stabilization, has been
used as a supplementary source of revenue for Government.  Second, Governient
has heavily subsidized fertilizer prices to farmers.
3.2;      During its first four years (1964/65 - 67/68) PA was financed
with the help of grants and long-term loans from foreign agencies.  The
European Development Fund (FED) financed fertilizer subsidies and the con-
struction of seed storage warehouses with grants; the French aid agency
(FAC) provided grants for expatriate assistance for the extension services;
and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of France granted long-
term loans to BNDS to enable it to finance the purchase of equipment for
subsequent sale to farmers on credit.
3.05      Over these first four years, PA resulted in substantial increases
in purchases of fertilizer and farm implements, and the area under groundnut
and millet expanded about 7%, yields about 8%, and total production about 15%.
3.06      The Bank was asked to finance a further three years of PA, 1969/70
through 1971/72, following the phasing out of FED and FAC assistance. The
project was appraised in 1967, approved in early 1969, and a Bank loan of
US$3.5 mîllion and an IDA credit of US$6.0 million became effective in June
1969. Because of the fall off in farner demand for credit described later
în this Chapter, the Bank loan was cancelled in early 1971, and to permit
disbursement of the remaining IDA credit the project disbursement period was
extended through the 1972/73 season. it is now expected that the credit
component for farm implements will be fully disbursed one year later than
estimated at appraisal.
3.07      The project's goals were ambitious and amounted to expansion of the
areas cultîvated under the groundnut millet rotation by 24%, and an increase
în the average yîeld per ha of 30% within the three-year project period.
It was anticipated that some 80,000 farm families or about 50% of the Ground-
nut Basin's total farming population would have participated  in the project.
B. Physical Achievements Under the First Project
3.08      The gains in production anticipated under the first project were
not realized. There were two principal reasons for this. First, in 1968,
the year immediately preceding the project, production vas sharply curtailed
by drought despite an expansion in cultivated area; consequently, farmers
entered the project period indebted and disinclined to increase this burden



by heavy purchases of inputs and equipment. Two years later, in 1970, a
more severe drought occurred; and in 1972, Senegal experienced its worst
drought in 50 years. At appraisal, one drought year in four vas assumed
on the basis of past experience; in practice, however, a drought occurred
every other year. Second, in fixing producer prices for groundnuts Govern-
ment followed the decline in export prices for this commodity that started
in 1968 when preferential treatment for Senegalese groundnuts on European
markets was eliminated, and in addition reduced the subsidy on fertilizer.
The effects of these moves vere to reduce farmer incomes per unit of ground-
nuts produced to about 25% below pre-project levels, and although export
prices recovered since 1968, farm-gate prices vere not adjusted until 1971,
after prolonged discussions between IDA and Government.
3.09      The following tables show the fluctuations in production and
input and equipment consumption that occurred during the project development
period:



- 6 -
Input and Eguipment Consumption
Fertilizer Demand /1          Equipment Demand /1
----- '000 Tons ----          --- '000 Units ---
Estimated    Actual           Estimated   Actual
Pre-project   1967/68       -         60.0                 -       54.5
1968/69      -         46.0                -        39.0
1969/70    68.6        18.0              72.8       23.8
Project        1970/71    79.3        14.0               73.2      10.6
1971/72    88.8        25.0              79.0       28.1
Extended
Project       1972/73      -         39.0                         46.3
Groundnut Area, Production and Yields
Cultivated Area /1    Production /1             /1
'000 ha  --      -- '000 Ton ---   Yields (kg/ha)
Estimated  Actual   Estimated  Actual   Estimated  Actual
Pre-project   1967/68       -         861         -         743         -        863
1968/69      -       1,030         -        696       950         675
1969/70    899         793       944         665    1,050         839
Project        1970/71    961         810    1,082          450    1,125         555
1971/72    988         877    1,210         823    1,225          938
Extended
Project       1972/73      -         890         -         400        -         450
/1   Groundnut Basin only.
3.10      While the above tables illustrate an unfortunate progression of
events, they also show clearly that given conditions of reasonable veather
and adequate producer prices, farmers are prepared to use improved farm inputs
and are able to achieve substantial production increases. Such a combination
of circumstances occurred in 1971/72.
3.11      Repayment by farmers of short and medium-term credit has been
adequate in years when the groundnut harvest has been good: 86% in 1969/70
and 98% in 1971/72. In drought years, repayment has been poor: 51% in
1970/71 and an expected 70% in 1972/73. Government has taken special mea-
sures to cope vith arrears in drought years. In 1971, it cancelled unpaid
1971 current maturities; and it is expected that it vill cancel about 30%
of debts maturing în 1972-73. Government reimbursed BNDS for bad debts
write-offs made in 1970 from the groundnut price stabilization fund, and is
expected to do the same for 1972 bad debts. In spite of the setbacks in
production, the stabîlization fund has had sufficient resources available
for this purpose, because farmgate prices have been set conaistently below



- 7 -
the corresponding export price (para 7.01). A consequence of these policies
is that groundnut farmers effectively insure BNDS against losses made in
lending to them.
C. Orsanization and Management Performance
3.12      Pro,ect Coordination.  A project coordination committee chaired
by a representative of the Prime Minister's Office has met regularly but
done little to improve coordination between the main project entities, BNDS,
ONCAD and SODEVA; coordination is adequate in the case of routine matters
but deficient in that of innovations. The committee's problems are its lack
of power to take decisions; it can recommend policy matters to the Prime
Minister, but the Ministerial Council alone can make policy changes. Also,
the committee has suffered from frequent changes in chairmen. Nonetheless,
the committee has been useful as a forum for the discussion of probleme in
carrying out PA and Government wishes it to continue in this role.
3.13      BNDS. In its PA operations BNDS deals almost exclusively with
groundnut farmer cooperatives. All its lending to cooperatives is guaranteed
by Governnent (see para. 3.11). Its direct involvement is limited since its
lending to each cooperative is governed by the past volume of groundnuts
marketed by that cooperative. Also BNDS is not directly involved in credit
recovery; such recovery is made by ONCAD through deductions from payments
made to farmers for groundnuts. Since 1970, BNDS has been making loans to
individual farmers mainly for the purchase of draft oxen, through the services
of SODEVA. This type of lending has been quite successful.
3.14      When the first project was appraised, BNDS vas considered a sound
institution. However, its management and financial situation deteriorated
soon afterwards and it suffered substantial losses in 1967/68. Since then,
remedial steps have been taken with IDA encouragement: branch-office activ-
ities have been curtailed, and overall staff reduced from 440 to 215; a new
director general has been appointed; and a reorganization of the Bank's
accounting system and procedures is underway under the lead of an independent
accounting firm. As a result, the financial situation has improved con-
siderably, and for the last three years, BNDS income has been sufficient to
cover operating expenses and make adequate provisions for doubtful debts.
A detailed description of BNDS and its operation is in Annex 2.
3.15      ONCAD.  In addition to groundnut marketing, the distribution of
inputs and recovery of farm credit, ONCAD manages the groundnut seed stock-
pile, maintains cooperative accounts, and is generally responsible for pro-
moting the cooperative movement.
3.16      ONCAD was judged to be overstaffed and inefficiently organized
when the first project vas appraised. Operating costs vere high; financial
losses substantial; services to farmers minimal; and groundnut payments and
delivery of equipment and fertilizer to farmers late. A major reorganization



- 8 -
of ONCAD was financed with the IDA credit, and the Italian consulting firm
ITALCONSULT engaged to plan and supervise this operation. ONCAD has now been
reorganized into two "operational" departments: marketing and cooperative
services, and five "administrative" departments: personnel, administration,
planning, general services and maintenance. Staff was reduced from 2,000 to
about 1,700 by 1972, although a subsequent merger with Government's Agricultural
Marketing Agency (OCAS) has raised the staff level to slightly more than 1,800
since. Working procedures have been streamlined and management has better
control over personnel activities. The accounting system has been substantial-
ly improved with a centralized data center and individual farmers' accounts.
Also, most of ONCAD's trucking fleet, which was inefficiently utilized and
maintained, has been sold in favor of contract arrangements with private
truckers. Since 1969, ONCAD has been operating at a small profit.
3.17      Despite improvements, much remains to be done before ONCAD's
performance can be judged satisfactory. Administrative procedures remain
complicated and are handled inefficiently; if streamlined, they could lead
to a further personnel reduction to a level of about 1,600 employees. Co-
operative services, mostly centered on the keeping of accounts, need sub-
stantîal improvement, and seed storage and handling are inadequate. Also,
problems are still encountered with transportation as insufficient knowledge
of the private trucking îndustry has led to unsatisfactory contract procedures.
A detailed description of ONCAD's organization and activities ls contained
in Annex 3, and proposals to further improve ONCAD's performance are outlined
in para. 6.03.
3.18      SODEVA.  SODEVA was set up in 1968 to take over the extension
service then managed by the French consulting firm Societe d'Aide Technique
et de Cooperation (SATEC); since then, expatriate staff has been reduced
from 42 to 16. SODEVA now has more than 800 employees, of whom 40 are at
headquarters in Dakar; on average it supplies one fîeld extension agent
for each 280 farmers, Although set up as an autonomous institution, SODEVA
is financed largely through the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development.
Throuughout the project period, SODEVA has been competently managed and has
effectively promoted the use of improved cultivation techniques.
D.  Evaltation of the Frste  Proîect
3.19      Mhe phvsîcal targets, expressed in groundnut production, of the
first credit project so far have not been achieved. Whether the project
objective of a production oL 1.2 million tons of groundnuts will ever be
achieved is a matter of conjecture, since increasing population growth and
urbanization could cause a swîtch from groundnuts to food crops. For this
reason alone, it is probable that the standard for measuring the economic
viability of the first project in terms of overall nationwide production
targets for groundnuts and millet was unsound, and that a different technique
should have been used, measuring the on-farm effects of using animal-drawn
equipment and fertilizers, the principal productive components of the project,
on a sample of project participants.



-9 -
3.20      The animal-drawn seeder and hoe are now in common use throughout
the Groundnut Basin. Observations by SODEVA and research institutions, and
which have been substantiated by interviews of farmers by IDA staff, show
clearly that use of the seeder and hoe results in production increases even
under adverse weather conditions. Yields of groundnuts and millet sown promptly
after the very early rains are some 30% higher than those of plantings made
later, and the seeder permits the farmer to sow a larger area in less time
than by hand. Animal powered hoeing enables better and more timely weeding,
which after early sowing is probably the next most important contribution to
good yields. Also, under low rainfall conditions, hoeing helps to retain
soil moisture which itself has a favorable effect on yields. In the appraisal
of the second project, the basis for the project's justification is an assess-
ment of the direct benefits to the farmer of switching from hand cultivation
to using animal-drawn seeders and hoes, or from these to the use of heavier
equipment (see Annexes 6 and 7).
3.21      Individual farm experience shows also that fertilizer use is
economic throughout Senegal in years of good rainfall, but that in drier
parts of the country fertilizers are not justified in dry years. Conse-
quently, it is desirable that promotion of fertilizer use in areas of un-
certain rainfall be adapted by the extension service to the ecological con-
ditions (para 4.13).
3.22      It is probable that the groundnut production targets would have been
more closely approached if Government's producer price policy were more orient-
ed toward the farmer's interest. By setting domestic prices consistently
below corresponding export prices, the Government has been able to collect
substantial revenues, for example, in 1971-72 alone inflows into the ground-
nut price stabilization fund amounted to CFAF 4.9 billion (US$19.5 million),
or 9% of total Government budget revenue. Because of the attractiveness of
this revenue service, Government in the past was inclined to immediately pass
on a fall in export price to producers and to delay increasing prices when
the trend was reversed. Farmer reaction, however, was stronger than anticipated
to the price decline in 1968 and there is no doubt that this vas a significant
factor in the decline in demand for cash inputs in the 1968-71 period. Govern-
ment has learned from its experience and, since 1971, the producer price has
been stabilized at CFAF 23.1/kg, well above the CFAF 19-20/kg generally regard-
ed as needed to maintain farmer incentive.  Further, Government has stated
that it intends to keep farmgate prices at incentive levels in future even if
this entails losing all stabilization fund revenues.
3.23      In conclusion, while the production targets of the first project
have not been met, it appears that farmers have obtained economic returns
from using farm implements and fertilizers provided under the project despite
adverse weather conditions. Without these implements and inputs production
would have been lower than occurred. In addition, because of the project,
substantial improvements have been made in the performance of two of the
principal project entities: ONCAD and BNDS. Given a return to more normal
weather conditions, it is reasonable to expect that production and produc-
tivity in the project area will regain and surpass previous levels.



- 10 
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Area
4.01      The second credit project would encompass the whole of Senegal
and consequently would benefit not only the traditional groumdnut/millet
farmer but also those employed in more diversifîed forms of agriculture
(see map).
4.02      Throughout Senegal's agricultural areas , soils are generally light
and easy to cultivate with light animal traction such as donkeys and horses.
Topography also helps this as it is either flat or slightly undulat.ing.
Farmîng population slightly exceeds 2.8 millîon and comprises about 350,000
familles. Unfortunately, however, population distribution is not in accord
with agricultural potentials.  Thus, in the relatively dry and drought prone
center of the Groundnut Basin (Thies and Diourbel regions), land pressure
exceeds 75 inhabitants/kna2 and more than d80 of the land is under cultiva--
tion. As a result, fallow has practically disappeared and soils are becom-
ing progressively depleted. In the southern Groundnut Basin, Casamance
and Eastern Senegal, while average rainfall is higher, population density
is much lower, between 10 and 35 inhabitants/km2, and cultivable land is
still abundantly available (see map).
4.03      Farms in the central Groundnut Basin average about 6 ha; and in
the southern areas are as large as 20 ha. T and is held under right of
usufruct and such rights are firm provided the land is properly cultivated.
The basic farm unit is the extended family unîï: (carre), managed by a Chef
de Carre. In each village, a committee of elders allocates available land
between carres, and the Chef de Carre al7ocates land to the adult members
of the family.
B. Project Descriîpior.
4.04      The proposed project would be a continuation of assistance to
"Programme Agricole" and would comprise:
(1)  medium-term credit for animai drawna lxmplements, carts and
draft animals;
(2) transportation, office and demonstration equipment for
SODEVA, and equipment for IRAT to continue rhizobium re-
search;
(3)  buildings and teaching equipment for SODEVA's training
center fFor ex.te.sion agents;



- il -
(4) technical assistance to ONCAD and SODEVA; and
(5) studies to provide information on seed storage, on
fertilizer response at the field level, and on the
possibilities of extending the ongoing Sine-Saloum pro-
duction improvement project.
The project would be carried out over the three years 1973/74 through
1975/76 and would provide the medium-term credit requirements of PA for
this period.
C. Detailed Features
Medium-Term Credit
4.05      Demand Projections.  A major problem in estimating prospective
demand for cash inputs is that such demand is largely dictated by cash
revenues generated during the previous groundnut campaign; this in turn
depends particularly upon veather conditions and Government's groundnut
pricing policies. Assuming that Government continues to stabilize ground-
nut prices (para. 3.22), weather will be the important factor influencing
future demand. Consequently demand projections are based on an extrapola-
tion of weather conditions over the past six years.
4.06      Animal-Drawn Implements and Carts.  Farmer demand for implements
would be principally for light horse and donkey drawn equipment such as
seeders, hoes and groundnut lifters, and to a lesser extent for heavier
ox-drawn equipment such as ploughs, multirow seeders, and multipurpose
toolbars. It is estimated that about 87,000 light implements would be
sold over the three-year project period, and that 75% of these would be
replacement items since 73% of all Groundnut Basin farms own seeders, and
60% have hoes. It is expected that only about 25% of total demand would
be from farmers who do not own implements.
4.07      The demand for heavier ox-drawn equipment will depend on the
success of the Sine-Saloum production improvement scheme and various other
diversification projects currently being implemented (para. 2.05). The
heavier equipment has a wide range of uses, and should enable a significant
expansion of cultivated area. Its deployment is expected to be mainly on
the larger sized farme which still have land under fallow.  Such farma would
be in the range of 15 to 40 ha and some 7,000 farmers are expected to pur-
chase ox-drawn equipment during the project period.
4.08      Horse and ox-drawn carts have become increasingly popular with
Senegalese farmers, both for on-farm transportation and as a source of
additional income through general carting in the villages. Demand for credit
to purchase carts has averaged about 8,000 units annually and over the three-
year project period it is assumed that some 26,000 units would be purchased
in this way.



- 12 -
4.09      Draft Animals.  About 75% of farmers in the Groundnut Basin own
draft animals, mostly horses and donkeys; only about 2% own draft oxen.
In the past, BNDS made credit available only for oxen purchase but recently
has started to provide credit to farmers to buy horses. Provision is made
under the project for the purchase of 5,600 pairs of oxen and 500 horses,
to be bought on credit.
Equipment, Buildings and Technical Assistance
4.10      SODEVA's present fleet of cars and extension equipment are not
sufficient for its field staff to function adequately, nor are its head-
quarter facilities well enough equipped to handle the present workload effi-
ciently. Provision has therefore been made under the project for the pur-
chase of cars, extension equipment and office materials. SODEVA's existing
training center for extension agents at Thies would also be improved by
constructing three additional buildings and providing teaching equipment.
As the relatively simple improvements in cultivation techniques promoted
in the past are by now well known among farmers throughout the Groundnut
Basin, SODEVA is reorienting its activities to the promotion of more ad-
vanced cultivation methods, such as ox-drawn cultivation, plowing and better
fertilizer application, concentrated in areas of high agricultural poten-
tial. This has created the need for better instruction of extension agents.
The expansion of the training center would result in more refresher courses
for such agents, combined with increased field training for which existing
management staff and teaching personnel are sufficiently adequate and com-
petent. No additional personnel would be hired.
4.11      Technical assistance to ONCAD would continue, in the fields of
accounting and data processing and with emphasis on counterpart training
to ensure that progress so far achieved is maintained. About 50 man/months
of consultants would be required over the three-year project period. As-
surances have been obtained during negotiations, that technical assistance
to ONCAD would be continued under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
lhe project would make provisions to reinforce SODEVA's study unit and to
provide SODEVA with about 36 man/months of consultants to supervise the
handling of the seed stockpile (para 6.02). The project will also provide
IRAT with a small anount of additional laboratory equipment to permit the
continuation of rhizobium research 1/, started under the firet project.
I/   Groundnuts, like many other legumes, often live in association vith
bacteria (rhizobîum) which have the property of providing the plant
wîth nitrogen. Whenever the appropriate strain of rhizobium is missing
from the soil - as it appears to be the case in Senegal - a decrease
in yields occurs unless sufficient fertilizer is applied. IRAT research
program consiste of selecting rhizobium strains suitable for Senegal.



- 13 -
Studies
4.12      About 110,000 tons of groundnut seed are stored by ONCAD and
distributed to farmers each year; the farmers repay in kind 125 kg after
the harvest for every 100 kg received. A project has recently been launched
with FED assistance to improve seed quality through better selection and
controlled multiplication (under contract by selected farmers). ONCAD
maintains, however, that in addition, its storage and insect-control facil-
ities should be expanded to ensure good seed quality. To examine and quan-
tify additional storage requirements and to determine whether responsibility
for seed storage could be gradually transferred from ONCAD to the coopera-
tives, a study would be carried out which would be implemented under the
responsibility of the Agricultural Services Department (DSA) of the
Ministry of Rural Development.
4.13      Although fertilizer use has been strongly encouraged by Government
relative to other inputs, mainly by selling it to farmers at 40% of its cost
(para 5.06), countrywide fertilizer consumption has declined from 67,000 tons
in 1967 to 43,000 tons in 1972.  Response of groundnuts to fertilizer is not
high even with sufficient rainfall, and there it strong evidence that its use
becomes uneconomic when droughts occur frequently. SODEVA's study unit would
therefore be charged with carrying out a comprehensive farm survey in order
to provide more field data on fertilizer response which would be needed to
rationalize Senegal's fertilizer policy. Meanwhile, assurances have been
obtained that the extension services would recommend fertilizer dosages and
formulae in the area North of the Tivouane-Touba line in the Groundnut
Basin adapted to the ecological conditions of the area.  Credit for fertilizer
has not been included in the project as deannd is not expected to increase
beyond present levels and consequently would not give rise to incremental
cost.-
4.14      The ongoing Sine-Saloum production improvement scheme (para 2.05)
is aimed at introducing more intensive cultivation techniques which would
lead to increased productivity on a range of crops such as groundnuts,
sorghum, maize, cotton and rice. A feasibtlity study would be carried out
to examine a possible extension of this scheme into areas with similar soil
and weather conditions while reinforcing the regional development approach
through increased action at the local level. Implementation of the feasibil-
îty study, which could lead to future Bank Group financing, would be the re-
sponsibility of SODEVA's study unit.
.15       About 80 man/months of consultants would be provided to carry out
the above studies; draft terms of reference are provided in Annex 1. As-
surances have been obtained during negotiations that consultants would be
engaged with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.



- 14 -
V.  CGo ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs during the three-year period 1973/74 - 1975/76
are estimated at CFAF 2,644 million (US$11.'4 million), with a foreign ex-
change component of 48%. Project costs, presented  in detail in Armex 4,
Table 1, are summarized below:
CFAF million                US$'000           Z Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Animal Drawn Implements
and Carts              1,018      917   1,935   4,420   3,980   8,400        47
Draft Animals             200       -       200     900    -         900       -
Equipment & Buildïngs
for SODEVA & IRAT         16      103      119      65      450     515      87
Technîcal Assistance
to ONCAD & SODEVA         66       76      142     285      330     615      54
Studies                    22       95      117      90      410     500      82
Subtotal        1,322   1,191   2,513   5,760   5,170  10,930        47
Contingencies              44       87      131     190      380     570      67
TOTAL           1,366   12978        60   5,550  11,500              48
5.02      Credit purchases of animal drawn implements and draft animals have
been conservatively estimated on the basîs of experîence over the last six
years (Anmex 4, Table 2). Prices for impleïaetits are those expected to be
paid by the farmers for 1973/74 season, and include îrport duties and sales
taxes paid by the manufacturer. Total dutïes and taxes amount to about CFAF
300 million or 12% of project cost. Costa of research, transportation and
office equipment are based on current prices excluding taxes. Technical
assistance costS are based on detailed maapower requirements valued at cur-
rent salary levels including overhead costs (Annex 4, Table 3). Price con-
tingencies averaging 3.5% per annum compounded have been allowed, ranging
from 2% on local cost components to 6% on foreign exchange costs.



- 15 -
B. FinancinR
5.03      Project costs would be met as follows:
IDA    BNDS   Government    Total
--  - US$ 000 
Animal Drawn Implements and Carts  6,300  2,100         -          8,400
Draft Animals                         -       900       -            900
Equipment and Buildings for
SODEIVA and IRAT                     450    -          65           515
Technical Assistance
(a) to ONCAD                        200    -         115          315
(b) to SODEVA                       300    -          -           300
Studies                               500               -            500
Subtotal                  7,750  3,000       180       10,930
Contingencies                         450    105        15           570
TOTAL                     8,200  3 105       195       11i500
%                          71/1   27         3          100
/1   IDA financing would cover 71% of total project costs, or 80% of project
costs net of import duties and taxes.
5.04      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$8.2 million (CFAF 1,888
million) be made to Covernment on standard terms. It would finance the
foreign exchange cost of the project, US$5.55 million, and 45% of local cur-
rency expenditures, US$2.65 million. The IDA credit would be deployed as
follows: (a) CFAF 1,450 million (US$6.3 million) would be onlent to BNDS
for a term of 20 years, including 4 years of grace for principal repayments,
at an interest rate equal to the Central Bank rediscount rate (currently at
5.5%); this would be used to meet 75% of BNDS credit for anitnal-drawn im-
plements and carts; (b) CFAF 334 million (US$1.45 million), together with
Government's own contribution of CFAF 41 million (US$0.18 million) would be
used to finance equipment and buildings for SODEVA and IRAT (CFAF 105 mil-
lion), provide technical assistance to ONCAD and SODEVA (CFAF 115 million),
and to meet the cost of studies (CFAF 117 million); and (c) CFAF 107 million
(US$0.45 million) of the IDA credit would be held as a contingency reserve.
A condition of credit effectiveness would be the conclusion of a subsidiary
loan agreement between Covernment and BNDS, acceptable to IDA.
5.05      BNDS would contribute, out of its own resources, CFAF 685 million
(US$3.0 million) to cover the remaining 25% of the cost of implements and



- 16 -
carts, as well as the full cost of draft animals for which credit would
be provided. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that Govern-
ment would cause BNDS to make sufficient resources available for this
purpose.
5.06      In addition to the outlays above, BNDS would continue to finance
short-ternm credits for fertilizer at the present level of CFAF 445 million
(US$1.9 million) per year; farmers would continue to buy draft animals on
cash, estimated at CFAF 140 million (US$0.6 million) annually, and Govern-
ment would continue to subsidize fertilizer at least during the initial
project years; the fertilizer subsidy amounted to CFAF 720 million (US$3.1
million) in 1971/72. As FED grants covering the fertilizer subsidy would be
eliminated from 1973 onwards, subsidies would in the future fall directly upon
the Government budget. To relieve the financial burden on Government and
to promote a more economic use of fertilizer (para. 4.13), assurances have
been obtained during negotiations that Government would discuss the level of
subsidies on groundnut and millet fertilizer each year with IDA, with a view
to its progressive reduction.
C. Credit Arrangements
5.07      BNDS credits to farmers would continuie to be channelled through
the cooperatives and ONCAD. BNDS medium term loans (five years) would finance
the full purchase cost of fam implements and draft animals. The main changes
in lending terms between the first and second projects would be that (a) IDA
funds would be onlent by Government to BNDS at an interest rate equal to the
Central Bank's discount rate which is currently 5.5%, instead of at 3.5%, for
a term of 20 years instead of 14 years and (b) the increase in interest rate
would be passed on to farmers; the lending rate for medium tern credit to
farmers would therefore be Central Bank rediscount rate plus 2 percentage
points (7.5% at present), whlch is in line with the new credit rate structure
in the West African Monetary Union introduced in January 1973. The 20-year
repayment period together with maintenance of the 2% interest spread should
permit BNDS to become financially autonomous in the context of its "Programme
Agricole" activities.  Farners cash flow proleetîons (see para. 7.05) indicate
that they can afford the increase in the interest rate. BNDS cash flows are
presented in Annex 2, tables 4 and 5. Assurances that the above would be
the terms of BNDS lendîng to farmers have been obtained during negotiations.
1). Procurement
5.08      It is proposed that an exception be made to international competi-
tive bidding with respect to farm implements except carts (seeders, hoes,
groundnut-lifters, toolbars), valued at US$4.6 million over the three-year



- 17 -
project period, which would be obtained through negotiated contracts with
the local manufacturer SISCOMA. Farmers' orders for implements and carts
are now collected by ONCAD in January immediately following the groundnut-
millet harvest. These orders are for equipment to be delivered prior to the
start of the planting season in June. In the past ONCAD bulked the orders
in order to attract a wide range of suppliers; thus under the first project
financed by IDA credit 140-SE, ONCAD assembled one single order for implements
each year which was put out to international competitive tender in accordance
with IDA guidelines. In each of the years in which this procedure was fol-
lowed, bids for implements were received only from SISCOMA, the local manu-
facturer. The competition for carts was somewehat wider, but again only
Senegalese manufacturers tendered. The single annual order approach has led
to problems in view of the relatively short time between firming-up the final
order and the required delivery date. Consequently many farmers have received
their equipment too late for the crit:ical planting season and have refused
delivery.
5.09      Given the problems that have arisen with the single bulk order
procedure; the fact that in the past tenders for implements have been
received only from SISCOMA; that SISCOMA implements have been developed
and proven under Senegalese conditions; and that the implements are well-
liked by the farmer, new procurement arrangements for implements would be
employed under the proposed credit. ONCAD would negotiate contracts for all
farming equipment except carts directly with SISCOMA. Under these arrange-
ments it it anticipated that ONCAD would negotiate three to four such con-
tracts annually and thus avoid the problems that have arisen with coordinat-
ing the order and delivery of equipment. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that the specifications for implements to be purchased from
SISCOMA, and the price subsequently negotiated would be subject to IDA
approval.
5.10      Since there have been indications of possible interest from
foreign manufacturers of carts, it has been agreed that procurement of
carts, estimated to have a total value of US$3.8 million, would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
group guidelines. Furthermore, research, office and demonstration equip-
ment, and vehicles estimated to cost about US$0.5 million would be pro-
cured similarly. An estimate of the implements, costs and equipment to
be procured is at Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4.
E. Disbursement
5.11      The proposed IDA credit of US$8.2 million would be disbursed as
follows:
(a)  US$6.3 million, covering 75% of subloans made by BNDS
for farm implements and carts;



- 18 -
(b) -uS$0.45 mi i.oeX covering 87% of the cost of equipment
procured for IRAT and SODEVA., and the expansion of
SODEVA's training facilities.;
(c) US$0.2 mîllion, covering the foreign exchange costs
of technical assistance rendered to ONCAD;
(d) US$0.3 millîon covering the full cost of technical
assistance rendered to SODEVA;
(e) US$0.5 million, covering the full cost of studies; and
(f)  an unallocated amount of US$0.45 million representing
contingencies.
The documentation for disbursements under category (a) would be BNDS documents
certifying that loans for the amounts specified have been made for approved
purposes; sub-loan documents would not be submitted for review but would be
available for inspection by IDA. Applications for disbursements under cat-
egory (b) would be suprorted by contracts and shipping documents, while those
under categories (c), (d), and (e) would be reimbursed against certified
records of expenditure. A schedule of estimated disbursements by quarters
is presented in Annex 4, Table 5.
F. Accounts and Audits
5.12      Independent auditing of BNDS accounts, as required under the first
IDA credit, would be continued under the proposed project.  ONCAD's accounts
have been reorganized by consultants financed under the first project. The
consultant's assistance in the establishment and maintenance of these systems
is being phased out. In order to ensure that 'uture accounting is satis-
factory, assurances have been obtained from Goverîrnent that ONCAD's accounts
would in future be audited by an independent auditor, and that audited ac-
counts, together with auditors' reports, would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the close of each financial year.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      BNDS, SODEVA and ONCAD, the three organizations that have imple-
mented the first project with the benefit of technical assistance, have by
and large performed adequately, and would continue to be responsible for
project implementation in the future. Measures to ensure further progress
in particular fields of responsibility of SODEVA and ONCAD would be encour-
aged by the proposed project and are discussed below.



- 19 -
6.02      SODEVA has recently set up a small study unit consisting of one
expatriate manager and two Senegalese assistants for the purpose of evaluat-
ing the results of applied extension techniques. Under the project, the
responsibilities of this unit would increase; it would guide the fertilizer
survey and the Sine-Saloum extension study (paras. 4.13-4.14), and in addi-
tion, it would collect systematic information on the performance of farmers
obtaining implements under the project. To enable the study unit to cope
with the increased workload, SODEVA would hire four experienced agrono-
mists for a period of two years. Assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that (a) the four experienced agronomists hired by SODEVA would
be acceptable to IDA; and (b) SODEVA would, within six months after sign-
ing of the credit, make detailed proposals to IDA on methode and procedures
to collect and analyze information on the performance of project farmers.
During the project, SODEVA would supervise, with the assistance of a con-
sultant, the handling of the seed stockpile by ONCAD (para. 4.11).
6.03      The consultant assistance to ONCAD under the first project has gener-
ally improved performance of this institution, but the degree of progress has
varied with ONCAD's different fields of activity. Progress has been note-
worthy in the collection and marketing of groundnuts, but has been less sub-
stantial in the delivery of fertilizer and implements to cooperatives, as
well as handling of the seed stockpile. Little progress if any has been
achieved in promoting the cooperative movement.  Looking tO the future, it
would be desirable if, in view of ONCAD's orientation and capabilities, the
agency would concentrate on its marketing functions, i.e. on the collection
and marketing of groundnuts, on ensuring that farmers receive the guaranteed
farmgate price, and on the repayment of short and medium-term credit by
farmers for inputs received.  Furthermore, ONCAD would function more effi-
ciently if it would assume a more indirect role of supervision and control
rather than direct involvement in the execution of these activities, a process
which was already started under the first project by initiating contract
arrangements with private truckers for transporting groundnuts ta the mills.
To ensure further progress along these lines, assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that (a) ONCAD would conclude each year delivery contracts
for groundnuts only with trucking firms of good standing and which are well
managed, and (b) ONCAD would, within 12 months after signing the Credit
Agreement, take all necessary action to ensure that suppliers of fertilizer
and implements undertake their delivery to cooperatives. ONCAD, together
with the main supplying firms, would make a study of the changes in cost
and in contract procedures involved with a view towards making the transfer
effective within this period.
6.04      The Government's goal concerning cooperatives is presently to
make them self-supporting chiefly by consolidating small cooperatives into
larger sized units. ONCAD, as the Government's main agency for the promotion
of cooperative development, has recently started to implement this policy on
a pilot basis. Although this would enable more credit cooperatives to rely
upon thenselves, their future field of action would remain limited. In the
long run, the cooperative movement could become more successful if coopera-
tives would expand into fields other than credit, such as seed storage, and



- 20 -
processing or marketing of agricultural produce. This, in turn, would depend
on providing sufficient incentives to farmers, coupled with adequate tech-
nical assistance to engage them in such fields. A study is presently under-
way to examine ways and means by which such cooperative expansion could be
realized.
VII. CROP PRICES, MARKETS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
FARMER INCOMES, AND IMPACT OF PROJECT
ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
A. Crop Prices and Markets
7.01      Farmers improving their production with project financed animal-
drawn equipment would produce incremental quantities of groundnuts, cotton,
millet, sorghum and rice (see para. 7.09). Groundnuts and cotton would be
exported and marketing problems are not foreseen as project induced increases
would be only about 3% and 14% respectively of national production in a normal
year. A sharp fall in groundnut prices is predicted, from CFAF 47,000/ton
FOB, Dakar in 1972 to CFAF 26,500 in 1980 (in termas of 1972 CFAF). If such
a fall would occur, Government would still be able to stabilize producer
prices at around CFAF 20/kg by foregoing transfers into the groundnut stabili-
zation fund (Annex 5, Table 1). This producer price i8 considered still ade-
quate to maintain farmers incentives, although it might cause some shîft from
groundnuts to other crops in southern production areas. Cotton prices are
also expected to decline from a 1972 value for lint of about CFAF 60,000/ton
FOB Dakar to CFAF 56,500 in 1980. However, the anticipated fall is much
smaller than that forecast for groundnuts, and the expected commensurate
fall in producer price of about 10% to about CFAF 25/kg îs not expected to
have an adverse influence on production as it should be compensated by gains
in productivity.
7.02      Project-induced millet/sorghum as well as rice production would
all be consumed within Senegal and for project financial purposes it il
assumed that current producer prices of CFAF 17/kg and CFAF 21/kg respec-
tively would be maintained. The demand for sorghum/millet i increasing
with population growth, urbanizatïon, and expandîng demand for livestock
feed.  Senegal is a major importer of rîce and is expected to remain 80 for
several years to come, and consequently there would be no problem of disposlng
of project produced rice. In Annex 5, calculations are made of future producer
prices and economic values for groundnuts, millet, rice and cotton for use in
project financial and economic analyses. The basis for these are the world
price forecasts of the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections staff.



- 21 -
B. Yields
7.03      Moderate yield levels are assumed in project calculations for
farms using light equipment and fertilizers: unshelled groundnuts, 825 kg/ha;
and millet 500 kg/ha.  These levels compare with 700 kg/ha and 400 kg/ha re-
spectively on hand cultivated farms with no use of fertilizer. On farms
using heavier ox-drawn equipment and fertilizer in more favorable rainfall
areas, higher yields are assumed. These yields follow and compare with the
figures in parentheses which are yield levels expected in the same area but
when using only light equipment and a less heavy fertilizer treatment; ground-
nuts 1,100 (900)kg/ha; sorghum 1,000 (950). In project calculations, it is
assumed that the heavier equipment would permit the cultivation of rainfed
rice and cotton in southern areas, and the maximum yields of these crops are
taken as 1,000 kg paddy/ha and 1,100 kg seed cotton/ha.
C. Farmer Benefits
7.04      While Senegal's agriculture may be less diversified than that of
many countries, the range of cropping patterns and farm sizes is so wide as
to make determination of the "average" farm of doubtful utility. Conse-
quently, to illustrate the project's impact on farm incomes, two basic
models have been used (see Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2). These are generally
typical of the heavily populated Center and the less heavily populated
South. The first, type A, is a 5.2 ha farm in the Central Groundnut Basin,
growing groundnuts, millet and beans (cowpeas or Niebe).  The "without
project" situation of this farm is taken as one of hand cultivation, and
no use of fertilizers.  Two "with project" situations are assumed (a) using
a seeder and a hoe and expanding the area cultivated to 6 ha, and (b) as for i
(a) but in addition using fertilizer on the groundnut crop. The second,
type B, is a larger farm in the Sine Saloum region of the more favored
Southern Groundnut Basin - growing in addition to groundnuts and millet,
sorghum and maize. The "without project" situation is the cultivation of
12 ha, by hand and horse-drawn seeder and hoe, and of which 7 ha would be
groundnuts and a total of 3 ha fertilized. Again, two "with project" situ-
ations are assumed (a) extending the cultivated area to 16 ha by using an
ox-drawn toolbar, introducing upland rice and fertilizing a total of 4 ha;
and (b) increasing the fertilized area to 5 ha and in addition growing
cotton.
7.05      The following table shows total farm income, cash farm income on a
family and per capita basis:



- 22 -
Type A                           Type B
Farm in Central             Farm in Southern Ground-
Groundnut Basin             nut Basin (Sine Saloum)
Without    With Project       Without       With Project
Project   (a)       (b)       Project      (a)        (b)
-- - - - - -    - - - - -CFAF-- - - - -- - - -      -  -
Total Farm Income /1   43,300   58,400   62,700        169,800   228,800   299,400
Farmers' Cash Income   22,000   37,200   40,400        122,800   181,800   252,400
Adult Workers                 4        4         4           10        10         10
Par Capita Income       10,800   14,600   15,700        17,000    22,900    29,900
(US$ equivalent)          (47)      (63)     (68)         (74)       (99)      (130)
11  Including family consumption but after deduction of debt service.
Increases shown in the above table exclude income from other farm family
activities, such as fishing, weaving and other cottage industries, and trad-
ing. Taking the latter sources into account, average per capita income in
Senegal's rural sector as a whole is currently about CFAF 25,000. Thus the
two budgets illustrate the generally worse than average income situation in
the Central Groundnut Basin (and this îs better than that of the North), and
the generally better than average income situation in the South.
7.06      Animal-drawn equipment reduces labor requirements substantially,
see Annex 1, Table 3. However, this reduction is in the case of only the
operations that are mechanized, and the reduction is offset both by the
cultivation of »mre land and the work involved in harvesting and processing
higher unit yields. Thus, in the case of farm type B, labor requirements
would increase to a maximum of about 825 mandays annually, and in that of
type A, they would remain static. An analysis of labor availability shows
that, on the average type B farm, additional labor requirementæ could be met
by the existing work force.
D. Production
7.07      On the basis of past equipment sales data, the following assump-
tions have been made. First, that about 55,000 farmers would purchase
equipment under the project; and second, that of these 48,000 farmers would
be type A and the remaining 7,000 type B. It is further assumed that of
type A farmers, 7,000 would buy a seeder and hoe for the first time and
21,000 who now own seeders but not hoes would buy hoes. As a consequence
of these moves, 28,000 farmers would achieve approximately the position
described in farm budget type A(a), that is using light equipment but no
fertilizers.  The remaining 20,000 type A farmers would comprise farmers
replacing theïr seeders and hoes; and of these 12,000 are expected to con-
tinue to use no fertilizer (type A(a)) and 8,000 to start using fertilizer
(type A(b)).



- 23 -
7.08      Of the 7,000 farmers purchasing ox-drawn equipment, about 3,500
are assumed to develop into type B(a) and 3,500 into type B(b) farmers.
In the case of both type A and B farmers, the fertilizer usage forecasts
are in line with the current situation in Senegal.
7.09      Given the above assumptions, it is estimated that the project
would result in the incremental annual production of 35,600 tons of unshelled
groundnuts; 7,800 tons of millet and sorghum; 6,000 tons of paddy rice; and
3,800 tons of seed cotton with a farm gate value of CFAF 1,187 million
(US$5.15 million). Further details of the production estimates are at
Annex 7.
E. Impact of Project on Government Budget
7.10      As shown in the government cash flow at Annex 8, the project would
have an insignificant impact on the Government's recurrent budget. Incremental
groundnut production would initially provide some additional earnings in the
groundnut stabilization fund, which would however be reduced by the forecasted
decline in export prices.  Capital expenditures on technical assistance and
studies would be recovered by savings stemming from resulting increased
efficiency.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct economic benefits would comprise:
a.   production increases resulting from farmers switching
either from basic hand cultivation to using light donkey
or horse-drawn equipment or from light equipment to the
use of heavier ox-drawn equipment; and
b.   production that otherwise would be lost if farmers'
animal-drawn equipment were not replaced under the
project.
The economic rate of return has been calculated by comparing with and
without project situations (see Annex 9), and for which the bases are the
farm budgets at Annex 6. Estimates of incremental project production - the
sum of the quantities described above (8.01a and 8.01b) - are those that
appear at para. 7.09, and for the economic rate of return calculation pro-
duction has been valued at world prices, para. 7.01 - 7.02. In the cost
streams account has been taken of expenditures that would be incurred by
Government in providing support services to project farmers. The project
life is taken as 10 years, which is the average life of farm equipment,
the principal component of the project. No shadow pricing has been used in
the economic evaluation. Calculated as above the internal economic rate of



- 24 -
return is 22%. The rate of return is relatively lnsensitive to changes in
costs and benefits, and încreases in equipment costs of 15%, combined with
decreases în the value of output of 30% are needed to reduce the rate of
return to less than 10%. Such a combination of circumstances is highly un-
likely.
8.02      Full project induced production would be reached in the seventh
year after the start of the project. Project produced groundnut and cotton
would result in addîtional foreign exchange earnings, while the production
of millet, sorghum and rice would substitute for imports and thus save foreign
exchange. Net export earnings and savings at full development are expected to
reach CFAF 900 million (US$3.9 million) per year, and would thus have a bene-
Licial impact on Senegal's balance of payments position.
8.03      The project's indirect benefits would be substantial.  It would
serve to consolidate and build on the progress made in Senegal in recent
years in introducing simple farm machinery, and thereby in raising the in-
comes of a substantiai number of Senegal's great mass of rural poor. A
total of about 55,000 farm families, amounting to about 450,000 people
in all would benefit from the project. It would help also to strengthen
the two institutions, ONCAD and SODEVA, that are most directly concerned
wlth rural development; and would assist BNDS to achieve the greater degree
of financial autonomy that it requires to develop effective lending programs.
In addition, the project should result in the acquisition of the much needed
data on fertilizer use and effectiveness that is needed to rationalize
Senegal's fertilizer policy; as well as the information needed to develop
an effective and efficient groundnut seed storage and distribution program.
8.04      Not least, the project would examine the possibility of extending
an ongoing production împrovement scheme in the Sine-Saloum area which,
for the first time, tackles the developmental problems of the traditional
groundnut areas on a broad spectrum area, or regional, approach. This
approach is an alternative to Government's past and current policies which
largely have been directed towards imposing solutions from the national
level downwards. With the substantial improvements that have taken place
in the managements of the national development agencies, BNDS, ONCAD, and
SODEVA, helped not least by Credit 140-SE> the time now appears ripe to
reinforce the attack from the national level by one aimed at producing and
implementing detailed development plans at the regional level. The feas-
îbility study financed under the project would be aimed at the latter and
hopefully could result in subsequent Bank Group financial participation.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Gavernment
that:
(a)  technical assistance to ONCAD would be continued under
terms and corndîtions satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.11);



- 25 -
(b) until the findings of the study on the use of fertilizers
are known, the extension services would recommend fertil-
izer dosages and formulae in the Northern Groundnut Basin
adapted to the ecological conditions of the area (para 4.13);
(c) the level of subsidies on groundnut and millet fertilizer
would be discussed each year with IDA with a view to its
progressive reduction (para. 5.06);
(d) BNDS medium term loans would be made to farmers at an
interest rate equal to the Central Bank rediscount rate
plus two percentage points (7.5% per annum at present)
for five years (para. 5.07);
(e) ONCAD would conclude each year delivery contracts for
groundnuts with private trucking firms of good standing
and well managed (para 6.03);
(f) ONCAD would within 12 months after signing of the Credit
take all action necessary to ensure that the suppliers of
fertilizers and implements undertakes their delivery to
cooperatives (para 6.03).
9.02      A condition of effectiveness of the credit would be the conclusion
of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and BNDS for on lending of
US$6.3 million of the IDA credit, acceptable to IDA (para. 5.04).
9.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US58.2 million.  The
borrower would be the Republic of Senegal.






ANNEX 1
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agriculture in Senegal
1.        Agriculture in Senegal reimains dominated by two crops: millet
(in this case including sorghum) which is the staple cereal and is grown on
about 1 million ha and  groundnuts the principal cash and export crop which
also extends to about 1 million ha. The two crops in combination are grown
throughout Senegal (see Table 1) with the exception of irrigated areas where
other crops usually are more profitable to grow. Both groundnuts and miUet
can be grown under quite low rainfall conditions, and consequently this
combination of crops is particularly well suited to Senegalls most densely
populated areas, i.e. the so-caUed Groundnut Basin in most of which rain-
fall is low and erratic. However, while groundnuts and millet are reasonab-
ly drought resistant, average yields in much of Senegal are low due to full
or partial crop failures resulting from drought. Thus in Northern Senegal,
with its rainfall range of l00 - 600 mm, the groundnut crop averages more
than 500 kg/ha only in one year out of two. In the Center the crop will
yield over 750 kg/ha in two years out of three, whereas in the South and
Southeast, where rainfall averages more than 800 mm., normal crops of 850 -
950 kg/ha are usually obtained every year (see Table 1). The Southern areas
offer the most scope for crop diversification and in areas such as Sine-Saloum,
Casamance, and the Eastern Region, considerable progress has been made with
cotton, rice, tobacco, and maize. In the Center and North, however, low and
erratic rainfall is a serious constraint to development and at this time
the groundnut/millet rotation remains most suited to the environment, and
probably this situation will continue. As far as groundnuts and millet are
concerned, the principal developments in agricultural technology that have
been adopted by farmers in recent years are:
- improved seeds,
- fertilizers, and
- animal-drawn cultivation.
Improved Seeds
2.        ONCAD distributes groundnut seeds to farmers, under a system
whereby for each 100 kg of seeds received, farmers reimburse 125 kg in
kind. In addition, the farmer usually retains some of his own groundnuts
for use as seed to permit him to adjust the planting program to his needs.
There is no distribution system for millet and sorghum seeds,
because high yielding varieties acceptable by farmers are not yet available,
although ongoing research programs show encouraging results. The quality
of groundnut seeds has deteriorated substantially in recent years, and
Government has launched a seed multiplication program which is being



ANNEX 1
Page 2
financed by FED and Govermment.  The program is being implemented under the
control of the MinistXY of Rural Development with participation by 90VEDA and
ONCAD. The program will permit the distribution of improved groundnut varieties
taiiored to the length of the rainy season in different parts of Senegal: thus
the 55-437 variety with its growing period of 90 days would be distributed
in the North; the 55-422 variety with its 105 day growing period in the South
of the Diourbel region; the 28-206 variety on about 500,000 ha in the central
groundnut basin; the 57-315 variety with a 110 day gro7ing period in the
Eastern Province; and 69-101 with a 120-day growing period in Casanance.
Presently about 110,000 tons cf seeds are distributed to farmers by
01ÂGAD annually and about 135,0O0 tons are reimbursed by farmers. The opera-
tion of the seed distribution program îs expansive and on the whole handled
inefficiently. Furthermore, seed storage facilities, according to ONCAD,
are inadequate. A study considering alternative solutions to reduce the
cost of seed distribution, storage, handling> and insect control would be
undertaken under the project.
Fertilizer
3.        ONCAD distributes fertilizer to those farmers who apply for it and
can pay either in cash or under credit terms. Moat of the fertilizers distri-
buted are rich in phosphate and potash, because most of Senegal soils are
deficient in phosphate and become deficient in potash after several years of
cultivation. Extension services recommend the use of four formulae for
groundnuts (6.20.10; 10.13.8; 6.10.20 and 7.21.29) at a dosage of 150 kg
throughout Senagal. The 7.21.29 fertilizer would appear to meet nutrient
demand most efficiently but its cost is high and mostly this fertilizer is
used on cotton.  For millet/sorghum two formulae are recomimended (1h.7.7
and 10.21.21); and for maize one formula (8.14,13), all at dosage of 150 kg.
Extension services recommend that cereala receive an additional dosing of
urea at 50 - 75 kg.
3
4.        Where intensive cultivation is practiced, Institut de Recherches
Agronomiques Trop-cales et Cultures Vivrières (IRAJ') recoemends a basic
application of 400 kg of phosphate tricalcium to correct phosphate deficiency.
5.        While good progress has been achieved by IRAT in developing fertil-
izer recommendations,extension services are recommending too many different
formulae to farmers; also there are doubts about the economics of including
nitrogen in groundnut fertilizers.  Further IRAT and Institut de Recherches
pour les Huiles et Oléagineux (IRHO) do not agree entirely in their recom-
mendations, although one of the reasons for this could be that IRHO has
restricted its experimentation to groundnuts while IRAT has been more
concerned with the overall impact of fertilizers on soîl fertility, its
maintenance, and its restoration. That there is some doubt about the value
of fertilizer use in Senegal is induced by the fact that the majority of
farmers are not sufficiently convinced of the profitability of fertilizers
to use theem consistently. It is for the foregoing reasons that a survey
would be undertaken under the project to (a) determine the economi.s of
fertilizer use in ,enxegalese agriculture, and (b) serve as a basis for estab-
lishment of a nationTide fertilizer policy.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Animal Drawn Cultivation
6.        Senegal has progressed further in animal drawn cultivation than
any other West African country. There are a number of reasons for this but
not the least are:  a large population of potential draught animals - princi-
pally donkeys; light soil in much of the country permitting the use of
donkeys for traction; development of light farm equipment suited to the
Senegalese circumstances; and a high farmer demand for this light equipment
sustained by the yield improvements brought about by its use. In other
West African countries most schemes for introducing animal powered mechaniza-
tion have foundered due to the heaviness of the equipment employed - most
of which had been developed basically for European conditions.
7.        In addition to the light equipment (donkey or light horse drawn),
which so far has composed the bulk of the farmer demand, Senegal has also
pioneered heavy ox-drawn equipment.  Even in the latter case, however,
equipment has been designed especially to suit African conditions and
typically is much lighter than that produced traditionally by European
manufacturers. ONCAD offers on medium-term credit to farmers a wide range
of equipment, and also credit for draft animals.
Light Equipment
8.        The light equipment generally is not used for basic cultivation
and while equipment is available for a wide range of operations, two items
are most in demand - a single row seeder, and a hoe for inter-row weeding.
These two pieces of equipuent permit the farmer to overcome the two principal
bottlenecks of the farming year: sowing and weeding.
9.        Sowing.  During the dry season nitrate nitrogen in the soil
increases, and crops planted with the first rain are able to take advantage
of the readily assimilable and critical nutrient. As nitrate is quickly
leacheft fram the soil, crops plant-d late cannot benefit.  This phenomena is
well established, and time of planting is critical for good crop yields for
a wide range of crops throughout Africa. The seeder permits the farmer to
sow his crop in better time by significantly reducing the labor needed for
this work, see Table 3. Due to the light soils, and arid conditions of the
dry season, basic cultivations for seed bed preparation are very sketchy and
frequently are little more than a light hoeing with the implement described
below.
10.       Weeding. As the crop must be planted with the first rain
(preferably slightly in advance of it) there is no opportunity for allowing
weeds to germinate and for destroying them before sowing the crop. Consequently
the weeds germinate with the crop, compete with it for nutrients including
any fertilizer applied, and present the farmer with a crucial obstacle to
obtaining a good yield.  As shown in Table 2,  the hoe significantly reduces
the time needed for weeding and permits the timely kill of weeds that is
essential. The hoe can also be used as a basic cultivation tool and is used
by many farmers for this purpose when fitted with broader shoes.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Heavy Equipment
I1.       The heavy equipment is designed to be drawn by a pair of oxen.
It consists of a wheel mounted tool bar onto which a range of implements,
ranging from plough through groundnut lifter,may be attached.  The so-called
Ariana. Chain is manufactured in Senegal, and is especially suited for work
on the somewhat more heavier and more fertile soils of the higher rainfall
areas.  Consequently it is expected that demandfor the heavier equipment will
be greatest in the South and Southeast, not least because oxen are availJ.ble
in these regions. The toolbar with attacbments, the so-called Ariana Chain,
requires quite a high tractive effort and recently a new range of so-called
high efficiency equipment (HIE) is now available, although costing about
twice that of the Ariana range. The HYE toolbar is identical to the Ariana
toolbar but îs mounted on pneumatic tired wheels (against steel for an
Ariana) and employs roller bearings. The difference in efficiency is
illustrated by the performance data given in Table 2. HYE, in view of its
cost, is better suited to the larger farms.
12.       Heavy equipment will permit substantial productivity gains;
importantly, its use alows farmers to increase the extent of their cropping
in the more fertile South and Southeast; and alo use of the equipment
results in higher yields, greater than in the case of light equipment,
because of more through and accurate cultivation, see Table 3.
13.       The combined effects of farm implements and fertilizers on yields
of groundnuts, millet, sorghum, maize and cotton are indicated in Table 3.
The data are fromtrials carried out on private farms supervised by IRAT and
do   not reflect what is achievable at the farm level without such super-
vision. Given the above reservationp however, the data permit the drawing
of a number of valid conclusions, in particular: (a) cereale and cotton
gi7e a response better to improved cultivation methods than groundnuts;
(b) responses to improved cultivation are generally better in the Casamance
and Eastern region than in the Sîne Saloum, and are better in the latter
than in the Center and North; (c) first class hand cultivation gives good
ylelds of groundnuts, but requires excessive amounts of labor; (d) with
good rainfall, fertilization is as important as good cultivation; and (e) as
equipment has a time-saving effect (see Table 2) and permits the farmer to
carry out his work on tirae, it is in fiact the ccmbination of the two factors
kfertilizers + equipment) which permits the maximization of production.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FERTILIZER SuvMEY
Draft Terms of Reference
1.      The purpose of the survey is to assess the profitability of
fertilizers, under conditions prevailing for groundnuts and millet or
sorghum on Senegalese farms in various ecological zones of the country.
To take into account armual rainfali variations, and to permit trials of
new fertilizer and doses, the survey will cover three agricultural campaigns.
Emphasis will be put on correct sampling methods and well-controlled data
collection.
2.      The survey will be combined with experimentation conducted by
IRAT, because new assumptions arising from the survey will have to be
experimentally checked.
3.      The survey will be conducted by the SODEVA study unit with assistance
of a Consultant to provide a statistician and an agriculturist for three years,
and an economist for two years; an estimated total of 53 man/months of consultants
would be required.  Chief Surveyors and their assistants will be provided by
SODEVA and trained by the three experts mentioned above. IRT viIl be invited to
follow the survey execution.
4.      Methodology, design and Cost of the survey will be established by
the Consultant, with assistance of S(DEVA and IRAT officers, approved by
IDA. This should permit to make a factor analysis establishing causal
relationships between inputs and cultivation methods (seed varieties, sowing
time and density, fertilizer formulae and doses, weeding, etc.) under
various conditions of crop rotation, soil and, rainfall on the one hand,
and results obtained on the other hand, both in terns of production
quantities, quality and value.
5.      Standard forms for recording the agricultural and ecological
data would be drawn up to permit the use of computers. Due to the complexity
of the average farm unit, observations will be made for well defined plots
on each selected farm.
6.      Obligations of the Consultant would be as follows:
a) Establishment of methodology and design of the survey,
schedule of vork, man-month requirements for various categories
of personnel needed, vehicles and equipment required, need for
computing services, detailed cost estimate.



ANNEX 1
agez
b) Training of surveyors, and design of all forms necessary to
record data.
c) Supervision of the survey execution and preparation with
IRAT of annual experimental programs.
d) Analysis of results and preparation of annual reports giving
results and their interpretation. (Survey and Experimentation
results).
e) Preparation of a final summary report, covering the three-year
observations and experimentation accompanied with technical
and economic recommendations, crop by crop, and region by
region to serve as a basis for a national fertilizer policy.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURIL CREDIT PROJECT
SINE-SALOUM FEASIBILITY STUDY
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The purpose of the survey is to assess the results from an
ongoing production improvement scherae in the Southern Sine-Saloum area and
to examine the possibility of continuing and extending this scheme in
areas with similar soil and rainfall conditions, after completion of the
first project in 1975.
2.        The feasibility study would consist of two parts:
a) the systematic collection of field data on the performance
of farmers participating in the ongoing project and the
analysis of its results compared with initial objectives; and
b)  the writing of a feasibility report acceptable to IDA,
which would assess the field results, indicate areas where
similar production improvements could be introduced and
examine to what extent the project organization could be
strengthened so as to improve guidance and operation at
the local level, thus stressing the regional development
approach.
3.        While SODEVA, through its Sine-Saloam project organization,
would be responsible for the collection of field data, the consultants
employed would be responsible for the analysis of results and for part
(b) of the feasibility study, which is expected to require about 12 man-
months and to be finished early 1975.






ANNEX 1
Appendix 3
SEIEGA.L
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Groundnut Seeds Storage Study
Draft Terma of Reference
1.      The purpose of the study is to determine the ways and means to
improve groundnuts seed distribution and handling in order to reduce
the cost of present operations and to increase tie quality of seeds.
The study will consist of:
(a) Analysis of the present situation carried out in accordance
with the methods of system analysis to determine the influence of each
parameter: emiplacement of silos, storage techniques, area served by
the silos,and administrative and technical conditions of seed distri-
bution to farmers and of credit repaynent.
(b) Research of alternatives to the present situation (true
optimisation may prove to be difficult, because of sociological or
political constraints) 
1) Introduction of techniques well adopted to Senegalese
c-nditions, to cbtain good quality seeds.
2) Introduction of new storage systeme to give more responsibility
to farmers and or cooperatives.
3) Possible use of existing silos for other purposes than seed
storage.
4) Economic analysis of the above possible alternatives, including
investment and operating costs.
5) Recomendations for a groindnut seed storage policy in Senegal.
Obligations of the Consultant
2.      The consultant will be employed by the Ministry of Agriculture
and work in close cooperation with ONCAD, SODEVA, and Research Institutes;
he will be responsible for:
a) collection and analysis of ail data related to the present system
of seed distribution.
b) establishment of a global model describing the present systea and
allowing for the introduction of possible changes.
c) recommendations resulting from the above mentioned texts. Description
of the new proposed syste; the necessary investments and their operatifg
cost.
d) to carry out its work the Consultant will provide the service of
an agronomist and one model specialist. An econonist would be used
for a short period of time. Sociological and technical skills will
be provided locally. About 15 man/months of consultants would be needed.






ANNK 1
Table 1
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PIRJECT
Groundnut and Cereals Cultivation
Area. Production. Yields by Regions
A. Groundnut
Years: 1968-69  1969-70 1970-71 1971-72
Average %
ReRions                          Area Under Cultivation        Aver4p  Yields Total
---------  -OOo g/ha  Product
a)  Groundnut Basin
Sine Saloum                   522      389    369       450      431    900    47
Thies                         169      151    136      155       150    800    13
Diourbel                      3253    304               27       3      750    25
Subtotal                 1,030      793    809      876       881
b) Other Regions
Fleuve Region                  12       10     10        12       il
Eastern  Region.               32       29     44        41       37    850     4
Casamance Region              113      118    114       125      117    950    11
Cap Vert Region                 3        32     4       -5        .      -      -
Subtotal                   160      160    172 
Grand Total               1,190       953    981    1,059    1050
Total production tons('OOO)       830      789    583       988
Average Yields kg/ha              697      828    559       932
B. Millet and Sorghutm
Area Under Cultivation
a) Groundnut Basin
Sine Saloum                   347      324    287       319      320
Thies                         158      164    152      166       160
Diourbel                        6      23      2        204      230
Subtotal                   7        722    67        689      710
b) Other Regions
Fleuve Province               107      104    111       118      110
Casamance                     113      121    123        95      113
Eastern Province               71       87      80       75       78
Cap Vert                        1        2      2         1        1
Subtotal                   292      3 ]IL            289      302
Grand Total                1,053    1,036    994       978    1,012
Total production tons('OOO)       450      634    400       582      506
Average Yields kg/ha              427      612    411       600      500
June 1, 1973



SENEGAL                                    ANNEX 1
Table 2
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
IMpact of Fanm Implements on Labor Requirements per ha
}tndCultivation Donkey/Horse Drawn    --------------  Ox Drawn
vithout implements  light implements        Ariana Chain    High Efficiency Equip-
ment
labor    Animals   Labor        Animals   Labor      Animals   Labor
Cultivation Methods   m/hr        m/hj       I/hr       mVhr      m/hr r/hr             m/hrr
- - - - - - - - - - - -   per ha  -
Groundnuts
Soil preparation          100       24       48          18        18          10       10
Fertilizer aDplication    -           -       5           -         8           -        5
Sowing                     90        8       16           8        16           4        8
Hoeing (x 4)              200       32       64          32        64          16        32
Hand weeding              150        -      150           -       150           -      150
T *` fting                150        -       70           9        18           9       18
Stacking                    -        -        -           -        18           -       18
Thrashing                  60        -       20           -        25           -       30
Loading and transport      60       10       30          15        45          10       30
Total               810        74     463          82       447          49       401
Yield                                  1,000 kg            1,500 kg              2,000 kg
millet
Soil preparation          100        24      48          18        18         10        10
Fertilizer app. (x 2)       -          - (x 1)5           0        1C           -       10
Sowing                     90         7      14           7        14           5       10
Hoeing x 4                200        32      64          40        8C          20       40
Hand weeding              100          -    200          -        200           -       200
Harvesting                100          -    100          -        120           8      150
Thrashing                 150         -    150           -        200           -      240
Total.                740        63    581           65      642          43       660
Yield                                    800 kg            1,500 kg              2,500 kg
=1,rgml11              n.a.
Preparation                          24      48          30        50          30       60
Fertilizer application x 3             - (x 1)5           -        15           -       15
Harrowing                              -      -          1C        20           5        5
Sowing                                7      14           7       14           5        10
Hoeing x 4                           32      64          40        80          20       40
Hand weeding                           -    200           -        20           -      200
Harvesting                             -    100           -       140           8      180
Thrashing                              -    100           -       130           -      160
Total                            63    531          87       479          68       670
Yield                                   1,000 kg           2,000 kg              3,000 kg
Cotton
- Total                  n.a.        -    250           -       460            -      600
Yield                                     800 kg           1,500 kg               2,000 kg
Maize                      n.a.
Total                            52    414          99       473           88      456
Yield                                   1,000 kg           2,000 kg               3,000 kg
Rice
Total                  n.a.      64    568          110      685           89      648
Yield                                     800 kg           1,500 kg               2,500 kg
Note: 1) Source: IRAT observation on well conducted operations.
2)  Time for tending animals is not counted.
June 1, 1973



SENEGAL
c-4
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Yields of Crops Obtained on Private Farms Supervised by IRAT
Northern and Central              Southern Groundnut Basin             Casamance and Eastern Region
Groundnut Basin         Southwest Sine Salouml Northern Sine Saloum
Groundnuts            To           Tl          To      Tl       T2      To      Tl      T2    To         Tl       T2
Fo                990         1,050       1,510   1,530   1,650   1J,330   1,330   1,430  1,490      1,500    1,540
Fl              1,140         1,130       1,800   1,760   1,890 ' 1,620   1,650   1,740  1,960       2,070    2,030
F2              1,140         1,240       1,960   1,910   2,050 ' 1,820   1,820   1,980  2,000       2,160    2,250
Millet
Fo                440           460                              g 1,070   1,080   1,290
Fl                710           700-                               1,630   1,790-  1,770
F2                910           940                              , 2,120   2,210   2,450
Sorghum (1) and Maize(2)                               (1)          g                                     (2)
Fo                                          930   1,040   1,220 '                            400       760    1,010
Fi                                        1,490   1,580   1,790 '                         1,080      1,520    2,000
F2                                        1,840   1,980   2,130                            1,480     2,800    2,840
Cotton                                                              g
Fo                                                               g                           800     1,080    1,130
Fi                                                               g                         1,060     1,330    1,520
F2                                                               g                        1,330      1,810    2,000
Source: IRAT, February 1972
Explanations:  To= No mechanization, hand cultivation; Tl   Use of seeder and hoe (horse or donkey drawn);
T2= Use of seeder and hoe (ox drawn); Fo = No fertilizers; FI  Moderate application of
fertilizer; F2 = Heavy application of fertilizer.
1§J






ANNEX 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The National Development Bank of Senegal (BNDS)
Background
1.        As a member of the West African Monetary Union, Senegal has in 1/
common with five other West African countriess  a currency, the CFA franc-,
and a Central Bank, the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(BCEAO). Under an agreement between France and the Union, the former
guarantees unlimited conversion of CFA francs into French francs. Beside
the BCEAO, banking and credit institutions include a development bank
(BNDS), four commercial banks, and a financial institution (SOGECA) which
specializes in hire-purchase operating. The establishment of a specialized
development finance companyl/, for the long-term financing of industry and
tourism, is under consideration.
BNDS Objectives, Capital and Organization
2.        The Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal has been active
since 196h, when it was created by the merger of two previous credit institu-
tions (Banque Senegalaise de Developpement and Credit Populaire Senegala.is).
BNDS was intended to provide financial and technical assistance to all projects
concerned with the economic and social development of Senegal, in the fields
of agriculture, livestock, fisheries, industry, commerce, handicrafts, housing,
and household financing. BNDS was authorized to provide finance through loans,
guarantees or equity participations, and also to conduct commercial banking
activities and manage public funds. In 1969, the Government decided to transfer
industrial and commercial financing a.ctivities to a semipublic comuercial bank,
Union Senegalaise de Banque (USB), but, in practice, BNDS did not cease financ-
ing agroindustrial and industrial projects. Fixed capital is CFAF 1,360 million
(US$ 5.9o million), of which the Goverument owns 56%, the COCE 28%, the BCEAO
7%, two Governnent funds 8.5%, and a French semipublic bank about 0.5%. The
Board of Directors presently includes nine members: six appointed by the
Government, two by CCCE, and one by BCEAO.  The president and vice-president
are elected by the Board (a three-fourth majority is required), with their
appointment being subject to approval by the President of Senegal.  The
Director General of BNDS is appointed by the Board. The Board meets at
least once a month. A shareholder general assembly meets once a year to
approve the annual report and accounts. BNDS' fiscal year is from October 1
to September 30, and accounts are kept in accordance vith banking and comercial
1/ Franc of the Communaute Financiere Africaine.
2/ Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement Industriel et
Touristique (SOFISEDIT).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
practices.  The shareholders general asserm'-l"7  appoinits two ncommissionalres
of accounts" to audit BNDS accounts. At IDATs request, under the first
agricultural credit project, a second auditing bas been carried out by an
independent auditing firm, Societe Fiduciere Suisse (SIS).
Management and Staff
3.        An organization chart is attached.  Under the&Director General,
who is directly responsible to the Board, there are directors in charge
of three departments: (a) Credit, (b) Finaneef anid (c) Administration,
Legal Affairs and Personnel.  There is one branch in each of the six
regions of Senegal, located in:  Thies, Diourbel, Kaolack, Ziguinchor,
Tambacounda, and Saint-Louis.  In 1967 and 1968, there was a considerable
increase of staff in the branches, and total staff exceeded 440; since
1969 the staff of the branches has been reduced again and total staff
is presently 215, which is adequate.
h.        These branches have no decision power aid are only internmediaries
between the headquarters of BNDS and borrowers, for the handling of documents
and funds. The accounting system was mechanized soon after BNDS' establishment;
but it lacks internal control, does not permit the rapid detection of errors,
and c.oes not allow the management to be informed promptly of BNDS' financial
situa.tion and results.  BNDS has signed a contract with Societe Fiduciere
Suisse, its auditing firm, for a reorganizatîon of its accounting system
and procedures starting in February 1973.  This reorganization, which should
last approximately 18 months and cost about US$ 200,000, is eligible for IDA
financing under the first Agricultural Credit Project.
Loan Portfolio
5.        A breakdown of BNDS7 loan portfol1o at thle end of the last four
fiscal years is shown in Table 1.
Credit to Agriculture
6.        Credit to agriculture has been the main activity of BNDS.  It
includes essentially:
(a)  Short-term credit to ONCAD to finance groundnut purchases.
This type of credit is financed by a consortium of BNDS
and commercial banks; BNDS' share has varied in recent
years between 70% and 80% of total credit. This repre-
sented amounts in the range of CFAF 6-12 billion
(US$ 26_52 million), depending on the volume of the
crop and the farmgate price of groundnuts. Issue of
the credit begins each year in December, reaches its
maxirmum in February-March, then decreases gradually to
a negligible residual in September.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(b)  Short-term credit to ONCAD for the interim financing of
farm equipment and fertilizers delivered to cooperatives.
Farm inputs are delivered to cooperatives between March
and May, but most of BNDS credit to cooperatives takes
effect only in November-December.
(c) Short-term credit to cooperatives for fertilizer.
(d)  Medium-term credit to cooperatives for farm implements.
(e) Individual agricultural medium-term loans (for equipment)
and short-term loans (essentially for fertilizer and
small implements). They represent less than 3% of total
lending to agriculture, and most of these loans are made
to civil servants for vegetable cultivation in the vicinity
of Dakar.
Credits to cooperatives are fully guaranteed by the Government, which has
compensated BNDS for any cooperatives unpaid matured debts in recent years.
Repayment performance in the case of loans made to indivicbials has been
poor and doubtful debts now amount to about 70% of their total amount.
Direct lending to farmers should be developed only in areas where extension
services are able to help BNDS in evaluating loan applications and super-
vising the use of credit (individual loans made through SCDEVA since 1970
have been successful).
Credit to Other Activities
7.        These cover fisheries, industry, public equipment, social loans
and credit to households and handicrafts:
(a) Credit to the fisheries sector represents less than 1%
of BNDS total portfolio; most loans made have been to
individual fishermen without appropriate supervision,
and 60% of them have become bad debts.  BNDS can develop
lending to this sector only if Government's fisheries
services are able to control the use of such credit,
and appropriate arrangements are made for collecting
repayments.
(b)  Industrial credit has remained stable in recent years
at about CPAF 1.5 billion (US$ 6.5 million); this amount
should decrease in future if SOFISEDIT (para 1) is established.
(c)  BNDS has decreased its financing of public projects aimed
at social and economic development. Such lending now
represents only 5% of its portfolio.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(d) Social loans (about 7% of BNDS' portfolio) are granted
mainly for housing, home appliances and furniture.
(e)  Credit to retailers and handicrafts averaged about
CFAF 1.5 billion (US$ 6.5 million) for the last three
years.
Investment Portfolio
8.        For the last five fiscal years, the BNDS investment portfolio
has varied between CFA! 5h0 million and CFAF 675 million. BNDS port-
folio includes shares of three firms which have shown important deficits
in the last years:
BNDS Shareholding
-SIES1/                            CFAF 110 million
-SOSAp2/                           CFAF  75 million
-SISCOMA_/                        OCFAF 116 million
BNDS has made provision amounting to only CFAF 14 million (US$61,000)
to cover losses on its investments; this is insufficient. However,
the "General Provision" account, amounting to CFAF 19h.0 million (US$ 0.8
million) could be used to cover losses in investments. For the last four
fiscal years, total income from BNDS investments has remained, on average,
at a very low level of about CFAF 10 million (US$ 43,000).
Performance under the Fîrst Agricultural Credit Project
9.        The amount of loan applications from farmers was much lesa
than estimated at appraisal for medium-term credit (implements and
draft animals) as vell as for short-term credit (fertilizer).  The
differences between appraisal estimates and credit granted by BNDS
in the Grcundnut Basin are shown below:
1/ Societe Industrielle d'Engrais au Senegal.
2/ Societe Senegalaise d'Armement et de Peche.
3/ During the last fiscal year SISCOMA situation improved and there vas
a profit of about CFAF 120 million.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Apraisal Estimates                         Actual
ln CFAF million                      in CPmiellion
Mediun-term  Short-tern    Total   Medium-term  Short-te m    Total
(Implements   (Fertilizer)           (Implements   (Pertilizer)
and draft                            and draft
animals)                             animals)
1969/70            886          1,068      1,954         353          226         579
1970/71            949          1,395      2,344         150          136         288
1971/72          1,038          1,7h3      2,781         393          2h8         641
Subtotal         2,873          4,206      73079         896          612      1,508
1972/73
(Prelim. Est.)                                         800           445      1,245
Total                                                  1,696        1,057       2.753
Repayment by farxmrs varied according to the crop. In the project area,
for the 1969/70 campaign, the percentage of repayent was 90%; for the
1970/71 campaign, 49%; for 1971/72 campaign, it was 9h%; for the country
as a whole, the rate of repayment was about the same. In September 1970
and again in 1971, the Governnent cancelled the matured unpaid debts of
cooperatives and made available to BNDS corresponding grants (CFAF 111.6
million or US$ 0.5 million in September 1970 and CFAF 306.3 million or
US$ 1.3 million in September 1971) out of the resources of the Groundnut
Price Stabilization Fund. For the 1972/73 campaign, the Government has
decided to cancel a certain percentage of the matured debts, varying for
the different districts but corresponding to about 30% for the country as
a whole. BNDS will again receive compensation from the Government.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Financial Results
10.       During the two or three fiscal years after its establishment,
BNDS was prudently managed.  In 1967 and 1968 it increased considerably
its personnel and its operating costs without developing its activities
or its income, and for fiscal year 1967/68, the operating deficit was
CFAF 260 million (US$ 1.13 million); this was aqual to 40% of its income.
Since 1969, the situation has gradually improved. For the fiscal years
1968/69 and 1969/70 provisions for doubtful and bad debts were insufficient;
however, this has been rectified in fiscal years 1970/71 and 1971/72, when
provisions of CFAF 156.2 million (US$ 0.55 million) and CFAF 272.1 million
(US$ 1.11 million) respectively were made.  BNDS Income Statements, Profits
and Losses Accounts and Balance Sheets for the last five fiscal years and
projections for the next four fiscal years are at Tables 2 and 3. According
to conservative estimates, average net profit of about CFAF 45 million
(US$ 0.2 million) per year could be expected during the second Agricultural
Credit Project period.
Credit Requirements under the Second Agricultural Credit ProJect
11i       It is estimated that BNDS medium-term credit for equipment and
draft oxen would amount to about CFAF 2,135 million during the three
project years, as shown belowi
Medium-Term Credit
(CFAF million)
Carpaign                      Equipment       Dratt Animals         Total
1973/74                          620                56               676
1974/75                          638                72               710
1975/76                          677                72               749
Total                      1L935                200             2,135
The IDA credit of CFAF 1,h50 million (US$ 6.3 million) would cover 75%
of the cost of equipment and about 68% of total medium-term credit
extended by BNDS under the project.
12.       Under the first credit project, IDA funds were on-lent by
Governmnent to BNDS at the Central Bank rediscounting rate of 3.5%,
for lU years vith a four-year grace period. BNDS made loans to coop-
eratives for four-and-a-half years, with an interest rate of 5.5% per
year, the firet repaynent by cooperatives being made after six to eight
months. These arrangements were intended to permit BNDS to build a
roll-over fund for the financing of equipment after the end of the first
project. This roll-over fund is presently about CFAF 150 million
(uS$ 0.65 million) if medium-term loans in the Groundnut Basin only are
considered, and naught if all medium-term loans under the "Programne
Agricolen are taken into consideration. BNDS cash-flow resulting from



ANNEX 2
Page 7
the first credit project is at Table h, I and II; the roll-over fund
will gradually increase between FY 1973/74 and FY 1976/77 to about
OFAF 520, then decrease and be exhausted at the end of the repayment
of IDA funds to Government by BNDS (in 1982/83). Under the second
project, BNDS would make loans to cooperatives fof four-and-a-half years,
as under the first project, at an interest rate equal to the Central
Bank's discount rate (which is presently 5.5%) plus two percentage
points (7.5 at present). IDA funds would be on-lent by Government to
BNDS for 20 years, ineluding a four-year grace period, as under the
first project, but at the Central Bank rediscounting rate, which is
currently 5.5%. These arrangements, in combination with the roll-over
fund constituted under the first project, would permit BNDS to carry
on the financing of equipment and draft animals after the end of the
second project three-year period, at an annual level whieh is assumed
to be on the average CFAF 800 million (US$ 3.5) after FY 1975/76 (Table 5).
BNDS Cash-Flow Projections
13.       In 1971/72, the volume of BNDS' lending for agriculture vas
exceptionally high, and as a consequence its loan portfolio inereased
by 38% between September 30, 1971, and September 30, 1972.  Its financial
situation became tight and credit requirements could be met only due
to an increase of CFAF 1.5 billion (US$ 6 million) in short-term deposits
and an increase of CFAF 0.7 billion (US$ 2.8 million) in short-term
Government advances. It is expected that the financial situation of
BNDS would considerably ease during the second Project (Projected
Balance Sheets, Table 3; Sources and Application of Funds, Table 6).
During FY 1972/73, short-term deposits at BNDS will probably decrease
substantially as a consequence of the small groundnut crop of the last
campaign; but BNDS will obtain other resources: (a) in early 1973,
Government will increase its shareholding by about CFAF 1,000 million
(US$ 4k3 million), which would be achieved through converting into
equity CFAF 3h0 million (US$ 1.5 million) of Government advances and
by providing about CFAF 660 million (US$ 2.9 million) of new funds; and
(b) BCEAO will grant BNDS medium-term rediscounting facilities of
about CFAF 450 million (US$ 1.95 million) for the complementary financing
of farm implements purchased by cooperatives in 1972.  In addition, the
outstanding amount of BNDS lending will probably decrease slightly in
1972/73 as a result of the slowing down of economic activity. From
1973/7h onwards, BNDS will have the necessary resources to increase
progressively its lending: (a) it would receive IDA funds on-lent by
Government on a long-term basis, (b) deposits are expected to increase
again, and (c) as BNDS would be expected to obtain an operating profit
each year, it could stabilize its short-term borrowing (except for the
groundnut commercialization rediscounting) and decrease progressively
its medium-term borrowing. This would result in a sound financial structure
and after the end of the Second Agricultural Credit Project period, BNDS
could probably expand progresaively its lending without substantial
external financial assistance (Table 6).






SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal (BNDS)
Loan Portfolio
(in CFAF million)
As of September 1969                    As of September 30, 1970                  As of September 30. 1971                        As of September 30. 1972
Amount              % of total           Amount                  *h of total       Amount                  % of total              Amount                   Z of total
1.   Agriculture
Long Term                      8                                       -                                          -
Medium Term                1,774                                     1,558                                     1,422                                          1,794
Short Term                 3,399                                     2,973                                     3,480                                          6,998
Doubtful                     105                                        73                                        75                                             52
Sub-total                  5,286          58%                          4,604           537.                     4,977            527%                          8,844              67%
2. Fisheries
Long Term                    -                                         _
Medium Term                   13                                        15                                         9                                             34
Short Term                     1                                         1                                         1                                              3
Doubtful                      74                                        77                                        88                                             52
Sub-total                     88           1%                             93             170                       98             1%                               89               1%
3. Indus9try
Long Term                  1,062                                     1,081                                       964                                            862
Medium Tenm                  114                                        91                                       181                                            352
Short Term                     7                                         2                                        46                                             49
Doubtful                     288                                       200                                       212                                             72
Sub-total                  1,471           16Z                         1,374            16h                     1,403            15%                            1,335             107.
4.  Infrastructure Works
Long Term                    673                                       630                                       603                                             553
Medium Term                   12                                       ___                                                                                        84
Sub-total                    685           8%                            630             7%                       603             6%                              637               5%
5. Social Loans
Long Term                    357                                       320                                       212                                             144
Medium Tern                  395                                       248                                       355                                             667
Doubtful                      75                                        68                                        65                                              56
Sub-total                    827           97.                           636             7%                       632             7%                              867               7%
6. Professional equipment
handicraf t
comerce and miscellaneous
Long Term                      13                                        6                                          1
Medium Term                   70                                        51                                        51                                              36
Short Term                   481                                     1,216                                     1,490                                           1,229
Doubtful                     131                                       133                                       265                                             125
Sub-total                    695           8%                          1,406            16%                     1,807            19%                            1,390              10l
Total                      9,052          100%                         8,743           100%                     9,520           100%                           13                 100%



SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECO
B-nque Nai.on.le de DevelpoPeuelt du SeneRal (BNDS)
s-                                                                                                                  lucusso Statesuets
(CFAF  illi-on)
Octual                                        Porecast                                                                         dctuail                                          Frecaat
1967/68    1968/69    1969/70   1970/71   1971/72     1972/73    1973/74   1974/75  1975/76                                     1967/68    1968/69   1969t70    19731   1971/;2    1972/73        1973/74    1974/75      1975/76
F,xpLvc fiures                                                                                                                   Incosse
rouerai openattuz eopensee      71.0      113.9    116.8        93.2     108.0   (          <         I           I              Intarest, fee-,  ouasion       626.0      720.3    6û8.0      769.0     949.2      980.0      1,005.0    1,035.0    1,075.0
P.r.o..el                      265.6      251.9    185.0       166.1     181.4   (  400.0  ( 415.0  (  430.0  ( 445.0            M-celleousincu,or              23.5       45.2      92.5       9.3      20.1       10.0         10.0       10.0       100
T ....                          46.0        54.5      62.9      70.1      70.1   (
Transport                       41.7        37,2      22.7      18.4      15.2 2            (
îS6cellaneou.                   27.4        15.1      10.8      13.4      11.1   (          (   _    (      _
Sub-Total           451.7      472.6    398.2    361.2       385.8        4003.     415.0      430.0    445.0
Iutcrest cIb,rgaO                 274.5      264.6    231.9    247.9        354.1       380.0     390.0      405.0    430.0
flspraciatioo                      51.8        60.1      46.9      40.0      35.6        40.0      40.0       40.0       40.0
Pronlafoo for b.d aod
doubtful  debte                 131.7         1.8      51.6    156.2      2 772.1     125.0     125.0      125.0      125.0
Opratng profit                      -                    51.9      _     (  _            45.0      45.0       45.0       45.0       Operatlog defLcît              260.2        33.6     ,       _ 27.0      78.3
TOTAL               909.7       799.1    780.5    805.3   1,047.6         990.0   1,015.O      005.0   1,085.0               TOTAL                   909.7      799.1    780.5    805.3   1,047.6        990.0     1,015.0    1,045.0    1,085.0
Profit and Lues Accounts
(CFAF rilliqn
Ac tuel                      _Ac t ud
1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72                                                                           1967/68    1968/69   1969170    190/71l  1971/72
Opetatiog defîtît cf                                                                                                             Opecstiug profit                 -                   51.9
curreot fiscal 5nar           260.2       33.6       _        27.0       78.3                                                  Profit frue    t prediras
L-s6e6 fCros previ.us                                                                                                             ft.l ye«r                      106.4       52.3     15.1      31,2     690,3
fis-al yeas-                  205.4       42,0    102.3       19,5      36.9                                                    fiscal     p    ro4 2si2                                                9
6                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cneîl tu   f p-uiuicu
B.d debta vritten off            61.9        -        99.5       14.2    375.9                                                      de  i
E ceptional ... vi ion           -           .         4c0        -        -                                                                                    238.7        23.2    139.3       4.3
Net profit for -orrent                                                                                                           Rpyet. f- vitten-
fisc-l y.af r                              2.5l      3.                  3.4                                                  Rp5snof0   tre,
off debt.                       0.8         1.7      !.4       0.8       3.8
Mis-ella..eu.                    0.4         0.7      ..6       2.5       0.4
Net 1... fut terrent
flucal year                   181.2        -         -        21.9
TOTAL.                                                                                                                       TOTAL.                  5275        77.9    209.3       60,7     494.5
TOTAl.       =2.         _7.      _0.        60_ 494_



SECOND M7RrCLL.RLn CRE0I7 FPROJECT
Oa,,oue Otin.1ndnDoL         lome  d. îce-Ra1 <ROIS)
ScPL.30    S.pt.30   Sept.30   Sept.30   Sopt.30            Sept,30   Sept.30        Scpt.30  Sept.30                                                   SePt.30      Sopt.30    Sepc.30    Sepr.30   SePc.30   Sopc.30    Sept,30   ScPt.30    SePt.30
1968        1969        1970        1971        1972       1L973        1974         1975       1976                                                    1968         1969        1970        1971        1972        1973       1974        1975        1976
ASSETS                                                                                                                                                    9LIOBILITIES
Cash                                    378         340         707         525        709            600        600          600       600               Reposit.                           2,578        2,790        4,648      2,728       4,i90      3.000        3,500       3,500       3,500
,6-c...,t. R.c.c-lcaî                  482          912         221          94         47            100         100         100       100               Bacle                                 117          134          101         60          16       -            -                      -
Loan  OcGovrosaceb.h.lf           722         490         827       1,470      2,076         2,000       2.900        2,000    2,000                08CM), Sccuedouc
ccconeclaîfotiocacocct     990           331          183     2.445         147        300          500         500         500
Short-Cea.               ~~~5,899      3,890       4,195      5,026       8,229         7.960       7.960        8,060   8.410                Rîcîa       -onrditor-                 134           74           98        137          71         50          50          50           50
.,cdiu- t-                         2 4i6        2,377       1,962      2,060       3,037         3,000       3,300        3.600    3,900
I,ong-tem                ~~~~1.990     2,113       2,03 7      1,739      1,539         1.650       1.550        1,430    1,350               C.,cac
adc,cccl                   9~~    ~ ~~52  836      1,102      1.351       2,023      1,683L3    1,683 /3   1,683/l   1,683L3
Ooubtfn1 Dchca                           696         673         549         705         357           482         607          723      857
M,cllac..... .hr-oo,acu               350          346        439         318         372           200         200          200      00                  ccnt                                4'.7         481.         575        506         766        400          4o0         400         400
îevnoto,nct  tnrtfoîcc538                 673         650         650        650            650        650          650       650               Sh.tt-t.-, d.lnt                    3,531        1,994          226        401      4,302      3,789        3,339       3,378       3,640
Cucn.   SPociO                   725         219         231         227         210           215         215          215      215
M.i-do-tcrn deIt                      b1s          883          357        329         904     1,264        1,174       1,084         94
Reodc    nCov- -ect o  fda                                                                                                                                         2/
hor..nd  cFranc  o-  Covcr-ect                                                                                                                          1.e-odnht-                         2,331         2.352       27336      2.312       2.440      2.530        2,825       3,131       3,464
bcha1f                                -         1,436       1,369      1,369       1,127         1.100       1,060        1,000       950
Fu-d. hbtroed on Fra-c
F-dc ac-of  (L-d,  -u61d1c9.,                                                                            il          il           il        il             (              -gtt~5~, Gcv--,cOt
oqoipront)                           291          277         231         209        184            175        175          175       175                bnha1f                             -            1,436        1,369 - 1,369         1,127      1.100        1,050       1,000         950
Refîcît cf cretfiscal mac               11          -           -            22          -             -           --                    -nactOdeposit.                                         101           21            10       354         345        300          300         300         300
Capit.1 sud rcro
Sh:arc capltal                    1,360        1.360         1,360     1.360       1.3690     2,400        2.400       2,400       2.400
Gats an d accdî                      295          295          295        295         295        295          295        295          295
1~.Igc a-d S tatutot
onservan                  ~~~~177        77           77         77          71        77           77          77           77
nI i,ccoetnonta           ~35          35             14         14         14         14           14          14          14
Ceecr 1 prvi,îo   foc  ocha      592 631           663                    172  9     9             1-  2 ~-'    2187 A/    33e/1
Fvuicfoc dnohtf.1 dchte(               (            <494                        263       398          513         638         763
_______       _______                  _____________                ~~~~~~~Pr-fit cf ctecfiscal yen          -             2             4                      3        45           45          45          45
TOE41L                    14,158       13,740      13,418     14,404      l8,537        78,03?      18,407       18,782  19,4i7?                                                   14,158       13,740       13,418   14.404       18.537    18,032        18,407      i8,782      19,407
Il   it  , ance   h.1 ocul relcse   f foeed... act. i.  bhot equal ce d.preciation    ft-r Sopt. 30. 1973.
2/  Tle lcludn fo  95  97 3_76  Cc 1975-76 fonda fro, IDA ScndAgrîc.1t.cal Credit Project,
3/  CFA) 340 olnof-o  che 1971-72 G- -cr.cr   odone ae  cd  ue.  Ccvor,et  sha-  capital iecr..no  Se 1972-73.
4/  -c  9Y 1972-73 t. 1975-76 p-ofltc  froc pr-1fos  y.ar  ar.11ocated to  'G ..cca1 procinion  foc ri.k.".



Tubi. 4
SEMD aDiWIUDL MmT 17
BS    g&doior de DM  nODD t du S.su  OUNDS)
I.   C.Flo  .eoating fri  N.duum-Ter Lau        diog u 1D tbe ftwht
ha. o 2y Under the JtSt AVioUltUr&l orudI 1Vojt
12i22    1907    1977   197273   1S73/74   lgMS   1975n6   1976/     î1S/7S   19"17    1S/0                          19D8   12/83          Te
-0 fuode on lent by OG-t.       23b.3    110.0    284.1    190.0          -        -         -         -        -         .        -         -         -        -          818.4
- ElO   "dl.ooting                 -        -         -      330.0 n     _         _         _         _        _         _        .         _        _         _          330.0
- RepW_nt b9  op.rotiv. /e         82.0    117.0    208.0    359.0    359.0    277.0    242.0         1.510                                             -                  1,795.0
- Int efeul on uorpluo
ftodo 2                          .                  1.7       6.0     17.1      23.0      27.2      30.5      23.3     19.1    14.8       10.2       5.3      O.l         178.3
Tnt.l          316.3    227.0    493.8    885.0    376.1    300.0    M69.2    181.5           23.3      39.1    .4.8      10.2       5.3       0.1       3,121.7
outrlou
- Med. tors Io- to
cwp.r.tl7. -                  353.0    150.2    392.6    650.0 la       _         -                                          -   .                   .         -        1,545.8
- aupfft tg om.oer nt or
IDA fOd. (intre..t Md5
c.pitnl)                         8.4     12.1      21.0      28.6      98.$     98.5      98.5      9e.5     96.5      06.5    96.5       S8.5      æ.s      98.5       1,056.1
- %Poet to 8CS60                   _         -         -       77.0      77.0      77.0      77.0     77.0       -         -              -        -              -          385.0
-It.r-.t on edit onl1
oned  1r3d0 /2                   2.L      0.3       -         -                  -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -            2.4
-  Jl opurntdog on9-a...        12.0      15 0      22.0      26.0     2L0       14 0      12.0       7.0                -              -             -         -          129.0
7bt41           375.5    177.6    436.6    781.6    196.5    189.5    187.5    182.5           9°.5      98.5    96.5      98.5      98.5     98.5       3,113.3
9 æ  _=  =   = =   fb                                                                             nc  -                        n
Annuel oorplus (Deficit)          (59.2)    49.4       57.2    103.4    179.6    110.5        81.7     (1.0)   (75.2)   (79.4)   (83.7)   (88.3)   (93.2)   (98.4)
c0aonti,±   arpolu  (]nfloit)       -        (9.)    47.4    150.8    330.4    440.9    522.6    521.6    446.4    367.0   283.3    195.0    101.8                3.4           3.4
11.      FI«ov asgating tro  Media-Te7 Mm Loa.u fgor th6e "Progr.
AOricole' ifr th.f Whol. COoctrY Under the PIrot dololtqrul Cr d1t P90ot.
(Cap nilXo)
- IDA fuod. on 1et 97 G 3not 234.3    110.0    284.1    190.0                                                         -                                                      818.4
- 7JCE0 8edino,ti,%                -         -                 450.0 /3                                               -                                                      450.0
- H.p.nt tJ oooperat1ue /1    101.0    151.0    2f.0           457.0    457.0    356.0    306.0    186.0         .         -         -         -        -         -        2,285.0
- Into.-nt o. oPls fud    2         -        _         _         _       1.2.8     21.0      27.0      27.2      23.3     19.1    14.8       10.2       5.3      0.2         10. 9
00t0l       335.3    261.0    555.1  1,097.0    469.8    377.0    333.0    213.2           23.3      19.1    14.8      10.2       5.3       0.2       3,714.3
X.M=   - c =                                   _                                                                                         -
- M.lio-Oet.  ons
to ooopeo.tive.               434.4    216.2    516.6    800.0 /3    -            -         -        -         -         .        -        _         _         -        1,967.2
- R Pfft to GOownu8t
* lDt Wc                        8.4     12.1      22.0      28.6     93.5      98.5      98.5      98.5     S8.5      98.5    98.5       98.5     98.5    9*.5         1,056.1
_Rpumat ta 83C0                  -         .         -       104.0    104.0    104.0    104.0    104.0         -         -        -         -        .         -           520.0
- int4r.t on odltttonl1
noedo or rndo /2                4.4       3.9       4.4       -        -         -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -            12.7
- moo operetlog .opae             14.5      18.0      26.5     31.5      25.0      17.0      14.5      8.0         _         _       _         _      _                     155.0
061.1       461.7    250.2    569.5    964.1    227.5    219.5    217.0    010.5           98.5    98.5      96.5      93.5      98.5      98.5       3,711.0
-- = - = = = = = =    5 -r   = =
Annuel snop3.ne (DOtinît)       (126.4)     10.8    (14.4)   132.9    242.3    157.5    3.16.0          2.7    (75.2)   (79.4)    (83.7)   (88.3)   (93.2)    (98.3)
Colntlve nuoplO8 (TefDrot>         -       (115.6)  (130.0)       2.9    245.2    402.7    518.7    521.4    446.2   366.8    283.1    194.8    101.6             3.3           3.3
/1  3x.t ozop._   of onet   0 to sooperaUties   dne artr   six 8.016..
7n 970 Md 971, On«n_4t g.   eabey to 73 fo              fflid u4 tO.. dubt- oro. peruti-.o
F.r the 1972-73 e_,e3 Go.eront u. agein giv  a noX4e1  to MM  for Uap.td ut"r. debt of ooepruti"6 . .ntitend ut 407 or tot.l.
2 At 21800                 -t-d1oonn     rut  of o-sot 7Jor <3.5% otil1 *-eoy 1973  a 5.5% S.St rd.
/   Pollnie  eetlueae.
Juor 1, 1973
.0{



SEUffAL
3SECOND A3ICULTURL CREDIT 213OJECT
rau E Ntiorfile de DeveloPPet du Sonegal (BdSD)
Cotlned Cash Flow Rosultiog troH Modio-term iNDS Lending
for Equo1ant nd Oren under thr Second Agrlcultoral Credit Pro.ject
1973/74  1971/75  1975/76   1976/77  1977/78   197a/7S   1979/80  1980/81   1981/82  1982/63   1983/84  1984/85   1965/86  1Y86/87   197/86  1Y88/89   1989/90   1990/91  199192   1992193          Total
Inlow
- IDA funda ulaet
bV Qovernment V                         465.0    478.0   507.0                                                                                                                                                                              1,450.0
- Repqnt by
cooperativw                             167.1    34.2.6   527.9      725.7    923.4    95h.1    976.3    988.7    988.7    988.7    986.7    988.7    988.7   988.7    988.7    988.7    986.7   988.7                 988.7    988.7    17,h70.2
- Iteret e surplus
fmdnî y.0                                                                                                                                                                         0.1       1.0       2.0      2.9       4.0       j1          23.1
Total                                     632.1    820.6  1.042.9      725.7    9231.      954.1    976.3    988.7    988.7    958.7    988.7    988.7    988.7   988.7    988.8    989.7    990.7   991.6               992.7    993.8    18,943.3
outr1fm
-  sdL±tar  loins
to coop.rati.                           676.o    710.0   750.0       8o00     80.0 800     .0 80.0O 8.0.             800.0    ôoo.o    8oe.o    8o.          80 800.0          800.0 800.o    8oe.o    80.0 8C800o              800.0    15,736.0
- Repaynt to Govrn-
_nt Of Il funlads                        25.6      51.9    79.8       79.8    138.6    138.6    138.6    138.6    138.6    138.6    138.6    138.6    138.6   138.6    138.6    138.6    138.6   138.6                  138.6    138.6      2,154.7
- Intèrest on additional
lundi rqoted 2/                           4.2       2.1     -          l.h       h.2       5.1       5.5      5.O       h.3       3.7       3.0       2.3       1.5     0.7                                                                    43.3
- ML operating epenses 2/                   7.0      16.0    19          25.5     34.0    31L2        3. 0     3          4 0 34.0  3.0      3.0      -.._0     34.0   J11 0       3h.0         o      34 0    310         -h 0     34 o        611.5
Total                                      712.8    780.0   8h8.8       906.7    976.8    978.0    978.1    977.6    976.9    976.3    975.6    97h.9    97h.1   973.3    972.6    972.6    972.6   972.6                 972.6    972.6     1,8h.5.5
nual Surplus (dfif1it)
S«ond Project                              (80.7)    ho.6   194.1    (181.0)   (53.4)   (23.9)        (1.8)     11.1     11.8      12.1.     13.1      13.8      lh,h    15.4      16.2      17.1      18.1    19.0        20.1      21.2
CUilative Surplus (deficit)
Seconod Pr3ot                              (80.7)   (40.1)  15.o       (27.0)    (80.5)   (104.3)   (106.1)    (95.0)    (83.2)    (70.8)    (57.7)   (53.9)   (29.3)   (13.9)     2.3      19.h      37.5    56.5        76.6      97.8         97.8
Surplus Punde foux Ffrît
ProJect (Tasbl 4 II)                       245.2    402.7   518.7       521.1    446.2    366.8    283.1    194.8    101.6          3.3           -         -             -        -         -         -        -          -         -            3.3
Global Cu-.etive Surplw
(de.flot)                                 164.5    362.6   672.7       494.h    365.8    262.5    177.0         99.8     18.5    (67.5)    (55.1)    (40.6)    (26.0)   (lc.6)      5.6      22.7      ho.8    59.8        79.9    101.1        101.1
v/  heuns fada -e onlent by Govonunt at Central Bank rediscaotng rate for 20 yuear  inlu ding a rac. purited of Loir yeere dort og hiii lob BN1  pays color On tercets.
2/ At Central Bank redieoounttng rate of 5.SS.
/ Zatiatos r.lting oly to loensa grnted in 1973-74 Md thoeittw.



r                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S9C008  Â182COILSORi0 CRFCI7 88O.8C?
(--CFIFM& ri     Frill
1972/73   1973/71   197I4/75 1S75/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   197b/8    1980/81   1981/82   1942/d3  ly13/84   198L/80   1985/80   19856/87   1987/38   1988/89   1989190   1990/91   199V92   1992M
509 3 OF F77130
Ioro..e in 0.985 l,0                               --    -                            -         -         -                        -         -         -         -              -         -          -              -         -         -         -
Long-t.r  borroowg _4                    190       465      478        507       -                             100       100       100       100       100       100       100
He.di,-tor   redisoorting 2/            450        -         -         -                   -                             -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -                   -         -
0oo1r.l 2.06 rodiacoun,ting
for Orourdnut ,rlalting 3/            5,800     9,700     9,700    10,350    10,350    11,000    11,100    11,1w    10,650    10,650    10,65C    11,200    11,200    11,20C 11,200    11,200    il,200   11,200    11,200    11,200    11,7t0
R.pq.3 t by borro.,,r
- Long-tero credit                    100       100       100       100                 100       100       100 110 100                    100                 100 100   100 C10             100       100         50       -         -         -
- 11edi0-teru credit                1,137       830       850       900     1,180     1,180      1,200                                  1,Z11  1,259   1250  1,250 1.250  1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250     1,250     1,250     1,250     1,250
1, entby D'IC O ofgrourd-
,:  -, ceroilîiz.tion credit         7,295    12,125    12,125    12,9bQ    12,940    13,750    13,850    13,030    13,300    13,300    13,300    14,000    11,000    l,l"oo    1,000    14,000    Lb,XO    2b,000    14,000    114,000    1,0CO
Ihoot-term d.po-its at B312
i-cr..»o (6.0r0.0)                   (1,190)      500       _                   500        100      200       _         100        -         2 0       _         200       _         200            -               2_0                           200
Short-t.-r borrowing (r1-
Pvaant)                                 (513)    <150)       39        262      -          -         -                   -
Ni.c.lln_oos d.cre.a in
d.bte                                  (122)      -          -        -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          .                   -         -         -         -         -
Totereatl , f-15, co_l--ior7 99                 l  , 1.25  I.C45    1,035     1,120    2,120      1,180      1,20Q    1,210     1,210      1,220     1,230     1,230          1,240     1,250  2       1,250      1.250     1,250     1.250     1 250
Tot-l                                M^u.255       24,331 Z6à       26,144   26_190 ~27,28Q    27 630    27 5256, 71(l  26,610 26,820 27,330    28,08G   ~278 90 27,990    27800    27 8%0    27,950    27.70_    27 700    27.900
énuCràt0M3 OF71a
Rlepqnt or ML F.,d. to
O9owrr,t                                -          70        72        74        78       139       15        152      158       165        172        81        86        91        95       ici        1G6       112       11C       125       129
Rfgq.ot or ot' r leg-
ter0 dobt                               100       100       100       100       100 100             100       100       100       100       100       100       100        100                 lO0 D0    100        100       100       100       100
?.pfflmt of Centrd1 Bank
di_-tor. r-di o...,ting                  90        90        90        90        90       -         -                   -                    -         -         -         -                                                  -                   -
Repay.rt of Central Bsnk
r-d. oo.ting for go,o8t
co- roi.3.0o.t- .' S,8C0                        9,700     9,700    10,350    10,350    11,JO    ll,l      11,100    10,650   1,650    10,650    11,200    11,200    11,200    11,200    11,20C    11,2(0    11,200    11,200    11,200    11,?00
Lomg-tr. lonz extmndd                   ait            -         -         -              -              -         -         -         -         -          -              -         -         -         -          -         -
M.di1utar. lo00                      1,100     1.100     l,lSo     1,200    1,250      1,250     1.250     1,250     1,950     1,250     1,250      1,250     1,2511    1,251     1,250     1,2 50    1,250     1,200      1.250     1,250     1,250
R.P. t of 0ooere t
adromo.                                 3ùO       -         -         -         -         -                   _         _         _ .        --                            --                                                             
bb0rt0tt,r csrdit e-tend
10ors.,.(dooron.)                      (369)      100       ICO       350       250       -         100       _         200       -         200       -         200                  200       -         -         200                            200
Orow,dnut coercîialîftion
oredit t. UCÀiI                       7,2b5    12,125    12.125    22,940   12,940    13.750    13.850    13.850   13,300    13,300    13,300    14.000    14,000    lb,000    11,000    IL,00        11,0      '' 1       1,0M0    14,00    14,00
Ic,reea in d-obtful debts               125       125       125       125       120       100        90        90        90        90        90         90        90        90        S 90      90        90          o        90        90        90
Opereting borges                        100       415       410       445       460       b75       475       475       475       475       475        475       475       475       475       475       475        4?5       175       b75       475
XItNrest obarga.                        380       390       405       130       55O       530       520       515       510       505       500       495       490        495       485       h75       465        455       445       435       420
Nieft2.se                              (217)      -         -         -         -         _                   _                   _         _         _          _         _         _         _         _          _                             _
Re.plo-t or Ftred 0 - t.Ji                         40        40        40        _0            50     SO       So        50        So        So        5         S5         SO        50        5Q        50         50.       50        50        59
9i..                                 15,236    24,255    21,337    26,1I.    26,238    27,394    27,960    27.582    26,783    26,585    26.787    27,71,1   27,941    27,751    27,945    27,741    27,736    27,882    27,728    27,725    27,914
4041àn1. f.md. erd of Fn97-1-72         709                      -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -               -         -              -
Éc.. e  (,e   rr)i avilsbl.
I.r o1                                 (109)      -         -         -         (48)    (11>)       (50)       (7       <73)       25        ;3       139       139        139        4S        59        64        68        (28)      (25)      (o
OoC.aîtve *ail.ble fundo                600       600       600       600       552       438       388       381       308       333       366       505       611        783       826       887       951     1,019        991       966       952
2/ IA Thodo omont 63        aeo'.nt.
î/ 1972/73 C0tr1 be   redi oo fnt-og !or th. 'Progr     AgOool..'
2/ Coetrl 1Bank redi-.oCnti.g 1.liti8    ior grOo.d-ot cooerc111i20, ti        0to0t 8C1  of .redit 0t00d0d ùy bmk.  7Th- C-. Or ENDS in the fitns <      f of foxd»ut  io0-nia  i,aUor        i        0,0.1o , 70% -f totd', .o it w0  in 1971/72.



SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SENEGAL
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
7 TO 12 MEMBERS1
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DIRECTOR                                                DIRECTOR                                                  DIRECTOR
CREDIT                                            FINANCIAL SERVICES                                         ADMINISERVION
AND LEGAL SERVICES
_                                                                      IF[  |  |  0    FINANCIAL
FISHERIES            AGRICULTURAL            MECHANIZED        CENTRAL FINANCIAL       ADMINISTRATION
CREDIT                 CREDIT               ACCOUNTING             CONTROL             AND BANKING
_J_                                                               L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVCES J
INVESTMENTS            COMRILFINANCIAL
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT         AND SOCIAL                                   CONTROL OF
AND PUBLIC               CREDIT                                      REGIONAL
INVESTMENTS                                                           OFFICES
6
REGIONAL
OFFICES
1presently g
Worid Bank-7409






ANNEX 3
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREIT PROJECT
The National Office for Cooperatives and
Devel=mnt iAsastance (OIEAD)
Background
1.        The Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le
Developpement (ONCAD) was established in 1966 to take over assistance
to cooperatives from regional farners' organizations, the Centres
Regionaux d'Assistance au Developpement (CRAD) which had been inefficient.
In addition, in 1967/68 ONCAD was given responsibility for the procure-
ment of farm inputs to cooperatives and the monopoly for purchasing
groundnuts collected by cooperatives and selling them to the Office de
Comercialisation Agricole du Senegal (OCAS), which vas responsible
for groundnut exports or delivery to local oil mills and for rice importe
and comnercialization in Senegal.  In 1971 the Governient decided to
have ail coîmercial groundnuts processed in local oil mille and, in November
1971, it dissolved OUS and transferred its assets and its responsibilities
for rice import and marketing to ONCAD.
Objectives and Organization
2.        ONCAD is a public corporation supervised by the Ministries of
Rural Development and Finance. It is governed by a Board of Directors
with 19 members including representativea of the President of the
Republic, of the Ministries of Commerce, Rural Development and Finance;
of the Governors of the seven regions; of BNDS and BCEAO; and four
representatives of cooperatives.  Its Director General is appointed
by decree of the President of the R%public and the Minister of Rural
Development.
ONCAD's objectives are presently: (a) to assist and supervise
cooperatives and pre-cooperatives, (b) to commercialize groundnuts and
basic agricultural productsa, (c) to supervise rice imports, storage
and distribution, (d) to transport and commercialize agricultural
products collected by cooperatives and agricultural development agencies,
(e) to procure and deliver to cooperatives fertilizers, farm iMplemente
and oxen, and (f) to handle, store and distribute groundnut seeds to
farmers.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
ONCAD Reorsganization under the First Agricultural Credit Project
3.        vhen the first Agricultural Credit Project was appraised, it
appeared that ONCAD, which vas overstaffed and ineffîciently run, should
be reorgan-ized. It vas a condition of effectiveness that a firm of
corsultants had been engaged on conditions satisfactory to the Association
to reorganize ONCAD and assist in its management. The consultants't terms
of reference for ONCAD reorganization under the First Project are in
Appendix 1. Under the Loan/Credit there was an allocation of US$ 1o5
million for financing this assistance to management of ONCAD and an
allocation of US$ 0.25 million for financing counterpart training; Italconsult
was selected for assistance to ONCAD.  Under the First Project the
allocation of funds for this purpose was increased to US$ 1.8 million
and the consultant contract, which started June 1969, was extended from
September 30, 1972 to Februa.ry 28, 1973; the allocation of US$ 0.25
million for counterpart training of ONCAD personnel was cancelled
because this training was eventually financed by an Italian grant.
Results
4.        The accounting system of ONCAD has been reorganized as
scheduled and is now satisfactory.  ONCAD management has been
reorganizedi (Chart 1) and has markedly improved, at least at head-
quarters level, but there is still room for further progress in the
fields of transportation, seed handling and cooperative services.
Maent aaf
5.        ONCAD's permanent staff, which was superabundant at the start
of the First Project, has been reduced from about 1,970 to about 1,700
at the end of 1972.  Hawever, after OCAS vas dissolved (para 1), most
of the OCAS staff was transferred to ONCADe which received an additional
135 persons although i-t was considered that only 35 would be needed
to handle the activities inherited from OCAS; these activities are
considerably reduced since (a) groundnuts are no longer exported but
sold directly to local oil mills, and (b) the previous role of OCAS in
the rice imports and distribution has been reduced and partly reassigned
to private enterprises. According to the consultants, the number of
staff should be reduced from 1,835 to 1,610 in the years to come; their
functions and repartition between headquarters and field are given in
Chart II. The reduction in staff would be appointed only in exceptiona.l
cases. ONCAD headquarters has benefited from the transfer of OCAS
personnel, -who were generally of good caliber; the former Director of
OCAS became Director of ONCAD.
6.        Under the second project, efforts to train O&CAD personnel
on the job and in some cases abroad should be continued, with the help
of the consultants. The consultants are preparing a new statute for



AINEX 3
Page 3
personnel employment which should also contribute to improve the overaUl
Zevel of the staff by offering better incentives and avoiding their
departure for the private sector.
Transportation
7.        At the start of ONCAD's reorganization, it had been decided
that the bulk of groundnuts vould be transported by rail and by private
trucking firms rather than by ONCAD's own vehicles; consequently, ONCAD'I
fleet has been considerably reduced. The railways have generally been
unable to fulfill their commitments, and although the trucking industry
has a sufficient capacity, ONCAD limited its contracts to small inefficient
truckers; as a result there have been general delays in transporting ground-
nuts and farm inputs, which sometimes did not reach the cooperatives in
time.  Under the second project, the situation should be improved by the
following proposed measures: (a) ONCAD would conclude each year contracts
for groundnuts transportation only with firms of good standing and manage-
ment, and (b) ONCAD should disengage itself from distribution of farm
equipment and fertilizer by transferring this responsibility to suppliers.
Seed Stockpile Handling
8.        In spite of its high interest charge (25') on groundnut seeds
loans, ONCAD has not been able to select, handle and store seed satis-
factorily. Under the second project the quality of seeds would be
improved due to a project for seed selection and multiplication financed
by FED, and a study would be carried out (a) to determine the need of
additional storage capacity and fumigation equipment, and (b) to examine
the possibility of gradual transfer of seed storage responsibility to
cooperatives.
Cooporative Services During the First Project
9.        ONCAD assistance to cooperatives bas remained very limited:
except for a pilot training scheme involving about 30 cooperatives, its
Service of Assistance to Cooperatives, comprising about 200 people, had
very few contacts with cooperatives and was ineffective.  The pilot
scheme for merging cooperatives into units of a size large enough to
permit them to bear the costs of some administrative tasks is financed
under the first project at a costs of USe 160,000; its results should
be carefully examined before undertaking any comprehensive merger
program.
ONCAD Finance
10.       During its first three years of operation, 1966 to 1968, ONCAD
had incurred operating losses totalling CFAF 260 million (about US$ 1.1
million). Since FY 1968/69, ONCAD had, each year, a small operating



ANNEX 3
Page 4
profit of CFAF h0-50 million (US$ 174,000-217,000).  The first reliable
accounts are those of fiscal year 1970/71, prepared while the accounting
system was being reorganized; at the close of this fiscal year, the
financial situation of ONCAD appeared sound (Ba-lance Sheet at Table 1).
For FY 1971/72 only preliminary estimates of operating results are
available; they show an operating profit of CFAF 40 million (US$ 174,000).
Income Statements of the last three fiscal years are at Table 2.
11.       It should be noted that ONCAD is an authority performing a
number of functions on behalf of the Government, such as assistance to
cooperatives. In this capacity (a) it receives subsidies (taxes on
grcundnut oil of about CFAF 350 million or US$ 1.5 million for 1971/72
for instance) which, however, are not directly related to the costs
incurred by ONCAD; and (b) about 170 staff are Government employees
seconded to ONGAD (essentially for assistance to cooperatives); their
remuneration of about CFAF 135 million (US$ 586,000) is borre by the
Goverruent.  In the coming years, the operating subsidy to ONCAD is
likely to decrease slightly, but savings resulting from the planned
reduction in ONCAD staff should offset such loss in revenue.
12.       As a result of OCAS liquidation, its assets will be transferred
to ONCAD; OCAS was considered a financially sound institution, and a
preliminary Government auditing of OCAS liquidation accounts (as of
November 15, 1971) shows net assets of about CFAF 1,275 million
(US$ 5.5 million). Even if important provisions had to be m de for
accounts receivable, long-term loans and investments, net assets would
remain substantial. In spite of the redundant personnel received from
OCAS, the transfer of OCAS activities to ONCAD is profitable because
the receipts from the rice import trade are higher than its operating
costs. ONCAD accounts now appear to be kept according to sound
principles, and consultant assistance in accounting will be pha.sed out;
in the future ONCAD accounts would have to be investigated regularly
by an independent auditing firm.



ANNEX 3
p age 1
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Consultants for ONCAD Reorganization
Under the First Agriculturai Credit Project
Principal Objective
1.        The principal objective is to introduce a suitably qualified
management team to assist to the fullest possible extent and at the highest
levels in the management of ONCAD for a period of three years, so that at
the end of that period ONCAD would be able to operate efficiently with
trained Senegalese staff vith the minimum of assistance from specialist
expatriate staff.
Preliminary Review and Proposals
2.        In accordance with the letter of invitation, a preliminary review
of the organization and working of ONCAD would be made, and the Minister of
Planning and Industry vould be presented, within 60 days of the date of the
invitation, with proposals for meeting the principal objective above.  These
proposals would cover in broad outline the consultants' practical experience
in similar problems, the staff which would be assigned to ONCAD including
curriculum vitae on the principal members, an organizational diagram, and
the way in which the main organization and management problems would be
approached. They would include details of what counterpart staff would
he required for training, and what facilities ani other help would be
required from the Government. They would be presented in the first
instance without any consideration of their cost.
Contract
3.        The preliminary proposals would then be evaluated by the Govern-
ment in consultation with IDA, and the selected consultants would be invited
to submit tentative financial estimates.  After broad agreement on the costs
of the proposals, a contract would be negotiated covering two phases:
(i) Initial phase: This vould cover a period of 60 days at
the end of which the selected consultants' firm proposals
for the reorganization and management of ONCAD for a further
period oi three years would be submitted in the form of a
comprehensive report. Proposals vould include the precise
role of the consultants in their implementatian, details on
Senegalese counterpart personnel, and detailed financial
estimates oa ONCAD operation and of the cost of the additional
service of the consultants;



ANNA 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
(ii)  Subseguent phase:  The scope of the proposals in the
comprehensive report would be considered by the Goverrnent
and IDA, and any necessary changes in the contract would be
re-negotiated as appropriate with the consultanrts who wculd
then provide the agreed management services for the three-
year reorganization period.
Main Considerations
The consultants wwuld be free to malce proposals on every aspect
of the organization and management of ONCAD and to carry them out, but the
Government would expect the proposais to include the following, which are
considered to be of major importance:
(i) Staff and training:
(a)  any reduction in staff considered necessary,
including a phased redundancy program;
(b)  the -training of counter,part staff a.t higher
levels of management, including the necessary
basic qualifications of such staff, the period
of training (Government would undertake to make
available the necessary suitably qualified
counterpart staff) and how much should be done
locally and abroad (through fellowships and
specialized courses);
(c)  the training of staff at all other levels of
management;
(d)  the introduction of a staff manual containing
the terns and conditions of appointment of staff
at all levels.
(ii) Finance and accountlng:
(a)  the opening balance sheet of ONCAD as at
October 1, 1967 is expected to be available
shortly. Consultants would be required to
comment on the suitability of the financial
structure revealed therein, and if considered
necessary, to make recommendations as to its
improvement;



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 3
(b)  the study and introduction of an accounting system,
under the ultimate control of the Public Institutions
Accounting Center, which provides for adequate day-to-
day flexibility of operation, fina.ncial analyses, cost
accounting data,and internal operating data, and which
reflects the commercial nature of mach of ONCAD's
responsibilities;
(c) the possibility of using computer time for pa.rt of
the accounts, and a recomnendation as to which of
the available computers in Dakar would be most
suitable;
(d) before the end of the second year of the main
contract, a critical examination of ONCADts sources
of income and proposals for any amendment, to ensure
that ONCAD is able in the future to operate without
loss and to build up adequate reserves;
(e)  the introduction of an accounting manual for staff
guidance, to cover every aspect of the accounting
procedures.
(iii) Transportation:
(a) a study of the past operations of this sector, and
previous proposals for its future operations, and
recommendations as to its retention, reduction,
or if found absolutely essential, its transfer to
other operators, together with arrangements
considered necessary to provide an efficient
and economical transport service to meet ONCAD's
responsibilities for providing fa.rm inputs and
marketing services;
(b) consideration of the possibilities of shelling
groundnuts at cooperative level to reduce
transportation costs.
(iv) Seed stockpile:
(a) its technical and commercial management, including
details of the numbers and qualifications of senior
staff required;



ANNEX 3
Appondix1
(b)  selection, handlinge gzading, etorage and testing
of the soeds, including the introduction of a
staff manual covering these points;
(c) a review of the present inducements to selected
farmrs to produce the seeds, and proposals for
the future.
(v) Cooperative services:
(a)  a review of the present services to cooperatives,
including the preparation of estiniates of fanm input
requiremsnts (at present being performed by SODEVA)
and those requirements of the cooperatives not at
present being met (in particular the maintenance
of accounts of the cooperatives and their individual
members), so as to produce, one year atter the
second phase of the contract commences, a full
report which would advise whether ONCAD, Government
or some other organization should be responsible for
the provision of these services, what should be their
fuantion and scope, and to what extent ONCAD would
be able to contribute to their implementation.



F'
o'
H;                                                                                        SE1FXL
-2
SECOND AGRICuuEAL CREDIT PROJXCT
Offoie National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developiement (OJCAD)
a.lance Sheet
(in CFAP million)
ASSE!S                                 As of Sept.              As of Sept.                   LIAILITIES                         As of Sept             As of Sept.
30, 1970                30, 1971                                                         30, 1970                30. 191
- Cash in hand and Banks                2,501.3                  2,900.0                      - Current liabilities
BUDS                            2,566.5                3,678.8
- Accounts receivable                                                                             Groundnut Price
Debtn irom soed loans                1,167-3                   846.2                           Stabilization Fund              1,580.8                1,259.2
Liquidation of OCA A                 1,250.6                 1,072.0                          Liquidation of OCA A.            1,433-0                1,433-0
Other                               2,096.5                  2,570.3                          Accounts payable                1,152.2                  434.2
%axes,                              6.0 
- Inventories                           1,695.1                    898.5                         Niscellaneous                    1,248.9                1,186.9
- Advances for groundnut seeds          1,775-0                  2,042.2                      - Medium-term debt
(Government)                       370-7                  280.1
- Edible groundnut seed loans              22.4                     41.5
- Other seed boaas                          3.2                      6.6                      - Long-term liabilities               717.9                   _
- Overdue seed loan§ with                                                                     - Previsions for retirement
a moratorium                          594.3                                                  of personnel                                                10.0
- Investments                              90.3                     90.3                      - Capital and Reserves
Capital stock                   2,743.5                2,743.5
- Guarantee deposits                        o.5                      0.5                          Reserves                                                  81.8
Provision for liquidation
- Fixed assets                                                                                     of CRAD  2                       232.6                   -
Buildings                              433.4                   385.7                          Provisionsffor risks                81.1                  335.9
Equipment and machinery                 19.8                    22.9                          Provision for bad debta            162.2                   _
Vehicles                               80.7                     55.6                          profit from FY 1968-69               8.2                    8.2
Office equipment and                                                                          Profit from FY 1969-70              23.0                   23.0
miscellaneous                         49.6                     48.7                          Ptofit from FY 1970-71                                     53-0
Loss from OCA liquidation             269.2                    269.2
Ibeficit from previous Fiscal Years   277.4                    277.4
Total         12,326.6                 11,527.6                                              Total      12,326.6               11,527.6     0 x
/l  When ONCAD vas established, it took over the marketing role of Office de Commercialisation Agricole (OCA)
the assets and liabilities of which were transferred to OCAD
./2  Centres Regionaux d'Assistance au Developpement



Z                                                                                                                     SENECGAL
SECOND AGRICULTUL'RAL CREDIT PROJECT
Office Nationol de CooDeration et d'Assistance pour le 1. veîoppect (ONCAD)
Inc-me Statme tn.
(CFAF milli-)
1969-70             1570-71               1971-72 /1                                                              1969-70              1970-71             1971-72 /1
Expendîtor.                                                                                                                Incomse
Inventories b.ginning of F.Y.                   647.5              1,695.1              1,634.0                           Inventories end nf FY                 1,815,5                978.5              1,510.0
Purchases                                    15,655.2             10,704.9             27,484.0                            Salon                               20,480.8             18,086.5             37,415.0
Marketing costi                                 744.5                685.1              1,816.0                            Subsidies
Transport coâts                               1,500.8              1,289,6               1,711.0                             -For fe-tilloor                      263.0 /2             652.5                880.0
Peraonnl                                        864.7                842.3               1,110.0                              -Other                              329.8                446.2                642.0
Taxes                                            10.3                  8.6                  13.0                           Mincellaneous i-come                   452.6                556.2                718.0
Supplie.                                        429.2                403.8                408.0
Fin.ncial rosto                                 292.6                268.7                643.0
miscellaneons                                    51.8                 83.5                  80.0
Depreciation                                    1207                 121.7                 150.0
Provision»                                       -                   170.0                  84.0
Plymnt to the Groundnut
Price Stabilisation Fund                      2,980.8              4,394.8              4,300.0
P.y..nt to the Rice
Prie. Stabilization Fund                         _                    _                 1,692.0
Profit                                           43,6             --a                         -O O
Total                              23341.7             ,20,719.9             41,165.0                                          Total                    341                07199              41.165
LL Pralieinry estimâtes.
12 This represents only part of the Government aoboidy for fertiliser
Profit  and Lots   A-cronts
(CFAJF million)
1969-70             1970-71                                                                                       1969-70              1970-71
Losa                                                                                                                       Profits
loute. related to previous F.Y.                  20.6                 -                                                   Profit from  corrent FY                  43.6                 51.8
Lassas on saad loes for                                                                                                   Cancellation of Res.rves for
?.Y. 1969-70 and previous F.Y.                                      213.2                                                 liq.idetion of CRAD                                         228.7
Lo .   on  -eount. reeeivable                                         91.6                                                Cancellarion of Provisions
Liquidation of CRAD                                                  124.8                                                  for doubtful debti                                         166.2
Depraciation of inventoriez                                           20.0                                                Repapeyent of advenras for aeeds                             117.9
mitcelîaneoou 1oases                                                 122.5                                                Miscellaneouo  profita                                        60.5
Profit                                           23.0                 53.0
Total                              43.6               625.1                                                                 iotal                    43.6                625.1



SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpement (ONCAD)
Distribution Objectives for Permanent Staff, Number and Functions
OGO    GIN-LD    GSE                    PC           PER         ADM           TEC          COP          COM          OMA
HEADOUARTERS AND REGIONS                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL
RG           LA                                     RP           RA            RT           AC                         Ri
HEADOUARTERS                        IA)      16           21           43           52            18          24            e1            17           32           il           (A>           315
CAPV4/ERT                           (>        1                         4                                       1_  1                     7                          2           15       assistance
CASAMANCE                           (2)       1     _                  10                         2            3            34           40                        166          2j7       t oopera
DIOURBEL                            (3>       1                        12                         3            3            47           41                       199           306            194
FLEUVE                              (4)       1                         7                         1            2             3            20                        19           53
Regional
SENEGAL-ORIENTAL                    (5)       1            1            8                         1             2           28            23                        72           136       ONCAD
operations
SINE-SALOUM                         (6)       1            1           13                         3             4           42            39                       264           367        1,100
THIES                               (7)       1            1           10                         2             3           28            24                        91           160
TOTAL REGIONS(B> (1+2+3+4+5+6+7)              7                        64                        12            18          182           194                       813           (B>          1294
GRAND TOTAL              (A+B)              23            25          t07           52           30           42           263           213                       824          (A + B)       1609
OGD: Office of the Director General; RG: Regional Manager
GIN-LD: General Inspection and Legal Departrment; LA: Legal Affairs
GSE: General Services
PC: Planning and Control
PER: Personnel; RF: Regional Personnel
ADM: Administration; RA: Regional Accounting
TEC: Technical Services; RT: Regional Technical Services
COP: Cooperative Services; AC: Regional and Local Assistance to Cooperatives
COM: Commercialization
OMA: Operational Management; RI: Regional Inplemerntation
WorlId Bank - 7431






,CrL~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~ -                                                                                       -i P.
>s,:ll-vno-                                                                                                     -     --ls-----  f3 3t'0i3                            - - - - - - -O--
-  - - - - - - -                                                                                                                                  I -I - - - 
r------------------------------------------- - - , t 7 - , ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- --  -- --  -  -- --  -  -- 
iGVDNü~~~ iN3V43ddûl~~~~Mü 31 bf)Od 33NV~~ISIISVA 1IS3StS N01Vkid033I500N0  IN30,3
!                                                         i     |   I   S      NVW  L             ---5,                                      i                                     l        îvn visist~~~~~~~~~~~i    I 
1l           1l         ~ ~r-------J                                                       Il                       !111lI                                                                                                    I 
,~~                            ~           ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,  .                                                                                 I                                   I
I          I                  I                          I                                                I        I1 n3n  1---------__1
I                                  i`
IVEVDNOs                     I 3A30 31 d                                                                  10 1O' O3 lV : 
)9rondd 11s380 lv!dnlrilDlSDtI   5INtfl0
1t!)3N35                             -






ANNEX h
Table 1
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
CFAF million               US$1o0o
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Animal IDrawn Implements and Carts 1,018        7   1,935   4,420   3,980 
Seeders                            196     140      338     860      610    1,470
Iloes                              219     155      374     950      670    1,620
Groundnut Lifters                   36      24       60     160      100      260
ToolVbrs (incl. attachmnents)      174     121      295     750      530    1,2'0
C- rts                             391     477      868   1,700   2,070    3,770
Draft Aninals                         200       -      200      900      -        g9o
Horses                              15      -        15      75       -         75
Oxen (pairs)                       185      -       185     825       -       825
Equipment and Buildings /              16      103     119       65     450        -1 
Technical Assistance                   66      76      142     285      330       615
Technical Assistance ONCAD          27      46       73     115      200      315
Technical Assistance SCDEVA         39      30       69     170      130      300
Studies                                22      95      117       90     410       500
Seed storage study                  10      25       35      40      110      _15
Fertilizer survey                   10      60       70      40      260       300
Sine-Saloum feasibility study        2      10       12      10       40        50
Subtotal                1,322   1,191   2,513   5,760   5,170   10,930
Contingencies                          44       87     131      L90     38u
Price contingencies /2
- on irplements, carts         36       61      97      155      265      420
- on equipment                   1       9      10        5       40       45
- on technical assistance        6       8      14       25       35       60
- on studies                    1        9      10        5      40        45
Total                   l3       1,278   2,644 6,950   5,550   11,500
/1  See eauipment list, table 4 of this Annex.
E   5% per annum on average over two years; no price increase assuiried
over the 1973/74 groundnut campaign.
June 1, 1973



S2PG,"AL
SECOND AcRICUTLTURAL CWEDIT PROJECT
Cost Estin2ates
Credit Purchases of Implements and Draft Animals
H
1973/74    .92]U/i  L           1975/76          Total
Type of Ixnplenent     Unit Cost      Nuimber Value  Number Value    Number Value    Niumr Value
( CFA)              (FAF         -  (CF              (FAF             ( CFAF
million)       million)         million)         million)
Seed.ers               12,5ûO          9,000  112.5   9,000  112.5    9,000  112.5   27,000    337.5
1oes                    7,&800        16,ooo 124.8  16,000  124.8   16,000  124.8   48,000    374.4
Groundnut lifters       5,000          3,700   18.5   4,000   20.0      4,300   21.5   12,000      60.0
Toolbars (including
attachments)          42,000          2,300   96.6   2,300   96.6    2,400  100.8    7,000    294.0
Carts                  33,400          8,000  267.2   8,500  283.9    9,500  317.3   26,000    868.4
Subtotal                                619.6           637.8            676.9            1,934.3
Draft Animals
Klorses                30,000            100    3.0      200    6.0       200   6.0        500     15.0
Oxen (pairs)           33,000          1,600   52.8   2,000   66.0    2,000   66.0    5,600    184.8
Subtotal                                55.8            72.0             72.0              199.8
Total value (CFAF million)                    675.4           709.8            728.9            2"134.1



ANNEX 4
Table 3
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Co0ts
Cost of Technical Assistance to ONCAD
A. Foreign Ourrency Coot                                                 US$'000
Salaries
Accounting expert (36 months at $4,000)                       144.0
Data processing specialist (15 months at $2,800)               42.b
Subtotal                   186-.G
Travel costs (international travel)                                    14.0
Total (A)                  200.0
B.  Local Currency Cost                                                  CFAF midllion
Subsistance allowance expatriate personnel
(CFAF 7,000/day for 1,450 days)                               10.15
Operational expenditures
(local personnel attached to consultants, office expenditures)   16.30
Total (B)                   26.45
C. Total Cost (A + B)
- GFAF million               72.45
- US$OOO equivalent        315.0
Cost of Technical Assistance to SODEVA
Salaries                                                             CFAF millior
1 expatriate agronomist
(2 years at CFA? 8.4  nillion/year)                         16.80
1 expatriate seed storage specialist
(3 years at OFAF 8.4 mnliion/year)                          25.20
3 Senegalese agronomists
f2 years at CFAF 2.35 rillion/year)                          14.10
Travel expenditures
International travel (expatriates)                                3.00
Local travel                                                      3.00
Miscellaneous expenditures                                              1.90
Total                        69.00
of which:  foreign exchange             29.90
US$ equivalent
Total                      $300.000
June 1. 1973                                          Foreign exchange            130.000



ANNEX 4
Table 4
SENEGAL
SECCND AGRICULTURAL OREDIT PROJECT
Equipment List
CFAF million
Foreign Erchange    Local Costs
(CIF Dakar)
Equipment for IRAT (Bambey Center)
equipment for rhizobium research                 6.o                  0.4
Equipment for SODEVA
transportation equipment                        37.0                  3.0
audio-visual equipment                           24.0                 3.0
office and laboratory equipment                 22.5                  2.5
agricultural equipment
(for demaonstration purposes)                   8.0                  3.0
agricultural equipment
(for training center)                           2.8                  0.3
teaching equipvient
(for training center)                           0.6                  0.1
sub-total          100.9                 12.3
Buildings (for training center)                      2.0                  3.8
Total              102.9                 16.1
A~I Local coets include port handling charges and transportation costs in country.
jUne 1. 1973



ANNEX 4
Table +
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule 1/
(us$tooo)
Project              End of                          Estimated  Disbursement
Year                 Quarter                        Amount        Balance of
Disbursed        Credit
1973/74          September, 1973                       -           (."200
December, 1973                     100           5,100
March, 1974                      1,900            6,200
June, 1974                         200           6,000
1974/75          September, 1974                     200           5,800
December, 1974                     300            5,50U
March, 1975                      2,000            3,500
June, 1975                         200           3,300
1975/76          September, 1975                    200            3,100
December, 1975                     300           2,800
March, 1976                      2,100              700
June, 1976                         300             4o00
1976/77          September, 1976                    200              200
December, 1976                     200
]   The schedule is based on the assumption that the Credit would be signed in
July 1973, and would become effective in November 1973.
June 1, 1973






SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
H.                                                    Financial and Economic Prices for Groundnuts at Farm Gate
1973     1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979      1980
World market price groundnut shelled CIF European port
- in L per long ton                                          125       120        114       107        100        93         87         82
- equivalent CFAF per ton                                72,585   69,680    66,200    62,135    58,070   54,000    50,520    47,615
---------------------------- CFAF/ton-------------------------------------
Equivalent unshelled basis (707O)                              50,810   48,775    46,340    43,495    40,650   37,800    35,365    33,330
Shipping, insurance                                             6.795    6.795       6.795      6,795      6.795    6.795 6,795           67
Export price FOB Dakar unshelled                               44,015   41,980    39,545    36,700    33,855   31,005    28,570    26,535
To Millers:                                         /1
Net return on groundnut prices for local milling -              1,120    1,110       1,100      1,090      1,075    1,065      1,050      1,035
To ONCAD                                           /2
Reimbursement to ONCAD for transportation costs                 4,330    4,300       4,250      4,180      4,020    3,900      3,850      3,850
To Producers
Price paid to farmers at farmgate                              23,100   23,100    23,100    23,100    23,100   23,100    23,100    23,100
Commission to cooperatives                                         600      600        600        600        600       600        600       600
To Goverrment                   /1
Export taxes on groundnut oil                                   2,475    2,450       2,415      2,375      2,350    2,300      2,275      2,200
Surplus (Deficit) to groundnut stabilization fund  '           12.390   10420        8080       5,355      2.710        40    (2.305)   (4.250)
44,015   41,980    39,545    36,700    33,855   31,005    28,570    26,535
Economic value of groundnuts at farmgate /4                    38,935   36,930    34,545    31,770    29,085   26,355    23,970    21,935
/1   Net return to millers on groundnut prices, and export taxes on groundnut oil are based on price formulae in the current agreement
between Government and the (private) milling industry; together, they constitute the difference between export prices f.o.bl. Dakar and the
ONCAD sales price of groundnuts to millers.  The agreement may be modified at the request of either party at the end of each year.
12   Costs are slightly higher than ONCAD's budgeted costs, reflecting higher actual transportation costs.
/3   Reflecting entries into the Groundnut Stabilization Fund, or payments from the Fund if groundnut prices are maintained at their
present level throughout the period.  Fund payments would not be necessary if producer prices were lowered to around CFAE 19-20/kg (para 7.01>
/4   The economic value of groundnuts at the farm level refilects the export price of groundnuts FO  Dakar unshelled minus 0NCA_
transportation costs minus a (thporetiral) margin for port handling charges fixed at CFAF 750 per ton.
NOTE:  Returns to the local oil processing industry have beun excluded.
An exchange rate of 1 B = 580 CFAF has been used.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Price and Marketing Structure for Millet
(in constant 1972 CFAF)
1972          1980
Economic Price Structure A
FOB US$                                      48.0           53.5
Freight, Insurance US$                       23.5           23.5
CIF Dakar US$                                71.5           77.0
CIF - CFAF                                 18,230          19,635
Port handling charges                         750             750
18,980          20,385
Distribution costs from production
tO consnuption centers in Senegal           1,200           1,200
Economic farm gate price /2                17,780          19,185
Dcmestic Price Structure
Actual farm gate price                 15,000-40o,000
Official purchase price ONCAD              17,000
Official sales price ONCAD
(to wholesalers)                       25,000
Converted at US$1 - 255 CFAF
L2   Used in Economic Rate of Return analysis.
,Tune 1, 1973



ANNEX 5
Table 3
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Price and Marketing Structure for Rice
(in constant 1972 CFAF)
Economie Price Structure                                        1972       1980
Price in US$ per ton F.O.B. Rangoon-Burma (40% brokens)          75         80
Freight, Insurance                                               17         17
CIF Dakar in US$                   92         97
in CFAF Li          23,500      24,800
Harbour and handling, transport costs                         3,950      3,950
27,450     28,750
Padôy equivalent (65%)                                       17,850     18,700
Y'illing costs (including transport to mill) 2                4,o5o      4,050
Net value             13,800      i4,65o
Value of By-products              700        70G
Econcmic farmgate price        14,500     15,350
Domestic price structure
A) For imported rice
CIF Dakar                                                 23,500     24,800
import taxes, ONCAD costs and margin                       5,600      5,600
29,100     30,400
to rice stabilization fund                                 7,900      6,6oo
Wholesale price                                           37,000     37,000
B) For domestically produced rice
farmgate price paddy                                      21,000
transport and milling costs/3                              4 ,675
25,675
Equivalent in ton of rice                                 39,500
rice stabilization fund subsidy                            2,500
Wholesale price                                           37,000
Li Converted at the exchange rate of U5$1 = 255 CFAF.
2 Excluding taxes.
L Including taxes.
June 1, 1973



ANNEX 5
Table 4
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Price and Marketing Structure for Cotton
(in constant 1972 CFAF)
1972         1980
(.1)  Average world market price
- in US cents per lbs  CIF  Liverpool A                   0.26          o.245
- in CFAF per ton/2                                     145,860        137,445
,2) Per Metric Ton of Seed Cotton in Senegal
37.5% of the CIF Liverpool value of one
ton of lint                                            54,698         51,542
62.5% of the CIF Osaka value of one ton
of seed                                                13,837         13 268
6,536,
Freight and Insurance (seed and lint)                     8,390          8,390
F.O.B. Senegal value of one ton of seed cotton:          60,145         56,420
(3)  Processing, Handling and Transportation Costs
5FAF 32,000 per ton of lint (x 0.375)                    12,000         12,000
CEAF  9,000 per ton of seed (x 0.625)                     5,625          5,625
Collection cost (fron producer to ginnery)                3,600          3,600
21,225        21,225
(14) Production Costs at the farmL3
Per ha.  fertilizers  4,240 CEAF
seeds          250 CFAF
pesticides   5,800 CEAF
sprayers       980 CFAF
Total       11,270 CFAF
t. yield of 1 ton per ha in 1972, and
1.1 ton per ha in 1980                                  11,270         10,245
(5)  Net Producer Price (2) - (3+4)                           27,650         24,950
£   World market prices have been amended to account for the lower value of lint
currently produced in Senegal.
'2  Converted at the exchange rate of US$1 = CFAF 255
Cash farm inputs are paid for by CFDT and the farmer receives the net producer
price.
Jure 1. 1973



mI&l; 6
SD2 AL
SEMND AORIClIfUEIL Cl DIT PROJ6CT
7'srr 8udg~et 'iyto A
Farn c 6 ha in t6e Central Groundnut Bai-n ,1
A. CroJs, Yelds. Productio' *nd Vilte
I                                        I                                        III
-Po X1 o71 Producer Prl-e                                        iithout equipment nd                     wtn eqU±psmnt end no                      WitIl equlprent fo 
(CFdY/kg3                 na ui of fertilisno use oS fêtili%.r.       o  of r.tilii"er.                      or fertîiBer. DO 2 h,
Ar*4   Yi.ld.   PAroductior   Vlue        Ar.    ields  P?e4dntlon    Aalu.         Are.   Yi'lcdt   Produrtion   Vol,e
(h)  <(k)            kg          F) ue          (kg/ha)       (         (CAF)       (hE)  <ih/h)         (kg)      (CFA"
23.1               1.7     700        1,190      27,b89      2.5      75J       1,875      43,312        2.5    225        2,),      u,632
3rly Millet                             i7.0               3.0     401        1,200       20,400      3.0     .50       1,350      22,950        3.0    5(0        !, Cij     2.S S_
3-s (Nioch)                             20.0               0.5     300          150        3,000     0,5      300         150       3,10C        0.5    30C           50       _L_
5.2             Total  -A-   50,889       6.0                           69,262       6.0                           76,132
Bû Prodocîtoru Custo
Orourdnut s.ed,   100 kg/'b
at 28.75 CFAF!kg - ICFAF 2,875/ha                                                        4,887                                     7,187                                      7, .D7
lillt Beed'  5 kg x 17 at
CF&?/kg - CFA?  '5/ha                                                                       255                                      255                                        2
Niebe seed:  20 kg at 20 CYAF/.cg
CFAF 4100/h.                                                                                200                                      200                                        23
luou ',ut seed u-essing: CF1' 75./ha                                                         128                                      188                                        _r
,rtiltars, 150  g/ha st CFAF 12/kg
C076  1,800rha
!quip_nt  eint.nc     CFAF 1,000
par yuùr                                                                                    -                                        °'000                                    1,
o     _tal  -b-   5,470                                 8,830                                     2,4r31
C. Net Value oE  pred-ction         (A-B)                                   Uoal_ZC-   45,419                                      60,432                                     63> '
r,aily Conasumtion (1,150 Kg
ff Millet ..  75 kg nr oil..ede)                                                         21,282                                   21,282                                     2 "e?
Inoo-ne Tae  (C?A! 50O/ye.r por vurker)                                                       e                                     2,oW                                       2,! ,_
Total -D       23,282                                   23,282                                     ,-"2
E. NRt Ceh Ic,  e8for4 Debt Service          (C-D)                         ToIA1  -z_     22,137                                   37,150                                     40,.P2
Cash Flow
MrA
Y"re                                                    O           1          2           3           b45                    6           7 2- _
puroa    oi donuk                                       -         3,000        -           -           -           -3,000                              -
Debt service /!
- Anmnt7on ased*.r                                 -        3,025       3,025      3,025       3,025       3,025         -           -
- anuit  on h1 2                                                                    ,882       1,882       1,882       1,882         - _
Total               _        6,025       4,907       907 07     4.907       4,907       1,882         -            -
Tar..Dt-l 58h i- M         ,3                           -        15,013      15,013    15,013      1,283       10.203      18,283     18,283        18,283
met ilnr_ntal niz                                       -         8,988      10,106    10,106       13,376      13,376      16,401      15,283        18,283
/1  FsiUy of 7, Of whoih four edult vorkers.  Untdr  wl troject, it in saeud that onm esder, on. hoo -d a donkey
wuld be purha.d;  the firet tua smuld 60 tought on cridit nd the latter agdnst a cash pewnt.
/2  Frice rwtainod:  s.eder:  C01r 15,130; hm, CIANU 9.110.
R.peysnt oer 5 yotra .t 7.5% interest. AOnnity je in.l.ded jn pines.
/3  Farmers thaning purchased innleonts, who wuild use fert li-er (SAS ,tuuee  7), maild etar; doirg so only fro-  th.
fourttb year crnv&rt, and obtain the inCremental caso income as iundlcated.
ure 1, 1973



AjM 6
"a bla 2
SD90AL
=ID AORCULI.mL CDIT PWROJlC5
F:r,M BUot 5D, B
Pars Of 20 ha iD Stn. Saloum - Southast ,1
Introduction of Oz-Dr#n Impl lnlte Includtu Plo71ugh
I                                     II                                      III
1:;72  erodu.r r.ice  Without Ox-Drawn Lrplel eîts         oi/  Ox-Drason bspLe.wr.1           With Ox-Drawn Lç!p,oentt
(CPAFUkg)           3 ha Fort4lised                        4 ha fertilised                        5 ha Portili.sd
A. Ceo.a  Yield.. Productlon  and VlIUe
Ares   Yieild    Production   s1oe1.   Aret   Yields   Prodution   Value    Are&   yielde   Production  Value
Crops                                                      <ha   (ko<2hL          )     (CFAF)    (ha)  (Ici/ha)      (kg)     (CFAF)    (ha)  (e            (kg)   (CFAF)
0ros0dcut.                                       23.1       7     900        6,300     145,530     a      1,000      8,000     18.,800    9      1,100      9,9Qo    228,690
mllet                                            17.0       2     750        1,500      25,500     2        750      1,500      25,500    2        750      1,500      25,50C
S.rgh-^.                                         15.0       2     950        1,900      29,500     2      1,000      2,000      30,Moo    2      1,000      2,00Q      30,0C0
Naise                                            16.0       1   1,100        1,100      17,600      1     1,100      1,100      17,600    1      1,100       1,100     17,600
R%inSfed irce                                    21.0       -      -           -           -       1        80Q        600      16,800    1      1,000      1,000      21,000
C,cttoa                                          27.65      -     -            -           -        -       -          -           -       1     1,100       1,100     30,415
ralo`t                                                      7      _           -           -       6        -          -           -       5       -           -         -
Totai A            217,130                                 274,700                                353,205
:. Prredactio, Coots-(ES
0'roudndut seed: 2,675 C?A?/h.                                                          20,125                                  23,000                                 25,875
millet se" e 85 CFAF/ha                                                                    170                                      170                                   170
Naise md sorghun s.d : 300 CF09/ha                                                         900                                     900                                    900
Rice noods- 2,000 CFA?b/h                                                                  -                                     2,000                                  2,000
0roundnut send dres,ino: 100 CFAF'n                                                        700                                     800                                    90Q
0ertilizars (axc.pt cotton)c 1, 60  CFAF/hA                                              5,400                                   7,200                                  9,000
Ur*.: 50kg/ha at CPIP 12fkg                                                                600                                   1,200                                  1,800
Squ14mot &Md  *1A. mai ntenace                                                           3, 00                                   1,500                                  4,500
Total a               30,695                                   39,770                                45,145
N9t VlaIe Of ProdoCtiOx  (A-B)                                 i7tal C               186,235                                 234,930                               308,1bO
r Fi1   Coo.ootI0n nd Iaxeo
Conasption (2,460 kg of sillet plus 225 kg of oilsoedu)                                47,000                                  47,000                                 47,°00
-  isca taxe  (500 CFAF par ,,orisr)                                                5,0C0                                   5,000                                  5,030
-  taxs on wia         (650 CFAe par borne, 480 CFA8 for a pair of ox-a)            1,300                                   1,130                                  1,130
Tota D                 53,300                                  53,130                                 53,130
E.  5tt_Ia î,Coa Oi Sfor-  Debt Service <(C-D)                    Ia1E                   132,935                                 181,800                               255,430
Cash Flou
(CFAF)
Tsars                                                     0                      2          3            4                     6           7-10
1obt Seri s2
- arima clîtivator                                   -        9,726       9,726      9,726        9,726      9,726        -            -
- pair of o»n                                        -        7,530       7,530      7,530        7,530      7,530        -
- r.y3.acnt ot oose s.der ed os bon                  -          -           -          -            -          -        41,97        4,907
Total debt ser is                    -       17,256     17,256      17,236      17,256     17,256       4,907        h,907
Incrumntal cah inco  /3                                   -       48,865      48,863     48,865      122,095    122,095    122,095       122,095
met i=crmntal ico_                                        -        31,609     31,609     31,609      104.839    104,839    117,188       117.188
/1   ranily of OS, of hér1  10 adoit ,mre Pr.  rhs farx airsacj bas tSo flbdrs Md boes, and to horese;
lt viaj bq on cridit under the proJeot on paîr of 0xn  ad oze ar±ma oultivator ,ith plouo wd liftr.
2   Priacs re aOt  di arimcr   cultivator wth U ttwhaIntst CFA> 48,630; pair of oeen: CPAF 37,650   Prbcco inelud-
dyr ot 5 ySsars at 7.5% internat.
n   Only h1f Of all farn,rs purchasing  a-drawn leiarlints wouId start fenrt±Llizng 5 !,a (instead of 4 ha) froc
th. forth y.er ons.-rd. (o,,, Inn., 7), ana obtain the tn.cra.untl cash incon-   as oi.di,ated.
1 135iî



SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICVLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Production Estimatesg
YearO         I 1               2                  3                 4                  5                  6                7-10
Pr,lect Farmers                                    Without   Withaut  W1th    Without 1ith    Without  With toitboht  W l                     uith  t  'ith    Without t4ith    Without  With
---- ---  ---- --- ----  --- ----  --- -- -- --- ---- ---  ---    T  o  s        --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -    - -  --  - -  ----- -- -- -- -- --
A. 48.000 type A fatmers
of which
a) 7,000 vithout seeder or hoe, vould buy them
- groundnuts                                  8,820      8,870   9,600    8,950   11,300   9,050  12,100    9,250 13,125           9,400  13,125    9,550  13,125    9,700  13,125
- millet                                      8,400      8,450   8,600    8,500    8,900   8,650   9,200    8,800  9,450           8,900   9,450    9,000   9,450    9,100   9,450
b) 21,000 with a seeder, would buy a hoe:
- groundnuts                                 36.750    36,900  37,200   37,100   37.900  37,300  38,700   37,450 39,400    37,600  39,400   37,700  39,400   37,800  39,400
- millet                                     25,200    25,300  25,800   25,400   26,700  25,500  27,500   25,600 28,350    25,700  28,350   25,800  28,350   25,900  28,350
c) 12,000 would replace their seeder and
he, but not use any fertilizer:
- groundouts                                 22,500    22,080  22,500   21,120   22,500  20,040  22,500   18,360 22,500    17,280  22,500   15,840  22,500   15,120  22,500
- millet                                     16,200    16,020  16,200   15,840   16,200  15,600  16,200   15,300 16,200    14,940  16,200   14,580  16,200   14,400  16,200
d) 8,000 would replace their seeder aud
hoe and start using fertilizer
- grourdnuts                                 15,000    14,720  15,500   14,080   16,000  13,360  16,500   12,240 16,500    11,520  16,500   10,560  16,500   10,080  16,500
- millet                                     10,800    10,680  10,900   10,560   11,000  10,400  11,200   10,200 11,400             9,960  11,600    9,720  11,800    9,600  12,000
B.  7.000 tvpe B fermrs
of vhich
a) 3,500 would change to o-draimn cultivation,
fertilizing 3 ha after threeysars
- grwundnuts                                22,050    22,150  24,000   22,250   26,500  22,400  28,000   22,550 28,000    22,650  28,000   22,850  28,000   22,950  28,000
- sorghum                                    6,650      6,700   6,700    6,750    6,800   6,800   6,850    6,850  6i870            6,900   6,920    6,925   6,950    6,950   7,0M0
- rite                                        -          -        -         -         -        -        -          50    950         100   1,900        150   2,800        150   2,800
- cotton                                      -          -        -         -                                            _          _        _         _        _         _        _
b) 3,500 would change to ox-dras.m ultiAratio,,
fertilizing 5 ha after three years
- groundnuts                                22,050    22,150  24,000   22,250   26,500  22,400  28,000   22,550 30,900    22,650  32,100   22,850  33,500   22,950  34,650
- sorghum                                    6,650      6,700   6,700    6,750    6,800   6,800   6,850    6,850  7,000            6,900   7,300    6,925   7,400    6,950   7,700
- rice                                              -         -             -         -        -                    50  1,150        100   2,300        150   3,500        150   3,500
- cotton                                       -          -       -         -         -        -        -         -     1,280       -       2,560      -       3,840       -      3,840
Total (and incremental) Production
- groundnuts: total                        127,170   126,870 132,800  125,750  140,700 124,550 145,800  122,400 150,425  121,100 151,625  119,350 153,025  118,600 154,175
incretuental                  -          -       5,930      -      14,950    -       21,250      -      28,025      -      30,525      -      33,675      -     35,575
- millet    : total                         60,600    60,450  61,500   60,300   62,800  60,150  64,100   59,900  65,400   59,500  65,600   59,100  65,800   59,000  66,000
incremental                   -          -       1,050      -       2,500    -        3,950      -       5,500      -       6,100      -       6,700      -      7,000
- sorghum      total                        13,300    13,400  13,400   13,500   13,600  13,600  13,700   13,700  13,870   13,800  14,220   13,850  14,350   13,900  14,700
increuental                   -          -        -                    100    -         100      -         170      -        (420      -         500      -         800
- rice         total                           -          -       -                   -        -        -          100   2,100        200   4,200       300   6,300        300   6,300
incremental                   -          -        -         -         -        -       -         -       2,000      -       4,000      -       6,000      -      6,000
- Cotton     : total (= increrental )            -         -                -         -                           -      1,280      -       2,560      -       3,840      -       3,840
L   Production estimates "vith" compared to 'without" the project are the combination of farm models fer "type A a<1d B" fe-rmer. presented ir Anrex 6, estimaued dems-a  for
1f'm iraplemeflts (Annex 4, Table 2) and  lie ruaber of farmers exected to buy far7r ill-½    ttr-,dur  -.-       i 't'
Under "without project" conditions, it is estimated that production would increase on average at about 17. per year due to a gradua3
improvement of cultivation techniques and the adoption of new varieties.



SECJ;C G        u    5
Govecr-.nt Cash Flo-
(CFAF I 1 Ition)
.2.1.ZIA     1    2U4/75   197S/76      1976177       197&7/8      1978/79      1979/80       1980/81       1981/82      1982/83       I983/84      1984/85      1985/86-    1993/94         1994/95
Soutce.  of Fondr                                                                                                                                                                                                1992/93
IDA c-edit-/                                  506.4         621.5        667.6         92.1           -             -            -             .            _                          _             _            _
BNDS repay.17t of IDA credit to
Covern.ent -                                    25.6         51.9          79.8         79.6        138.6         138.6        138.6         138.6        138.6         138.6        l38.6         138.6        13b 6
Pcoceed. froc, tsxea on zo.ndnut.1/             57.6        115.1        119.2          79.7 1i3                    -            -
TotaI:             S89.6        788.5         866.6        251.6         139.9        138.6        138,6         138,6        138.6         138.6        138.6         138.6        138.6
Aesolica tion of Fonds
Govern eSnt lo r to B4915 <onleoding
of IDA crediî>-                         465.0        478.0         507.l          -
Equip-nt, b.ildin8g, techeicel
aossItance end stodies                   28.4        106,2         117.1         82.1           -            -            -             _                          _             _            _             _            _             _
Price costingenrie.                             13.0         37.3         43.5          10.0                                                                -             -                   -
5/
Fertiliser subsldies                            10.8         30.2         45.3          60.5         7?.3          50.4         11.3          12.0          -                          -             -            -             -             -
Total;             517.2        651.7         712.9        152,6          72.3         50.4          31.3         12.,                        _             _
Net flow before *pplication
of debt service                                 72.4        136.8        153.7          99.0         67.6          88.2        107.3         126.6        138.6         138.6        138.6         138.6        138.6
iDA service  charge and rep.yments                 3.8          8.5          13.5         14.2         14.2          14.2         14.2          14.2         14.2          14.2         33.1         33.1          33.1          70.9          70.9
Net cash  lflow                                   68.6        128.3         140.2         84.8          53.4         74.0         93.1         112.4        124.4         124.4         105.5        105.5         105.5        (70.9)        (70.9)
Cu..lstive ca-h fl1w                              68.6        196.9         337.1        421.9        475.3         549.3        642.4         754.8        879.2       1,003.6      1,109.1       1,214.6      2,058.6       1,987.7       1,916.8
I/ Se. Annex 4 Table 5 (disb.rse.ent schedule).
2I Repaysents cf eecond credit only, at 5.52. intereat over 20 ye.r., i-cluding 4 yc-s of grace on
principal.
3/ Nased on *rsumed proceeda of groundnut stabilination fund pet ton of gromdnduts (Annex 5 Table I)
ad increenral groundnur production fro  thc project (Anex 7).
4/ Se Anrex 2, Tatle S.
5! Fertilier .se for project productln- only (6,600 to-  at Ful develf         cerlc).  l'cccji,er cobsidlen  ou1d
gradually deeline b   ine wIth . depletion of the gro-d-t  tabilJzation f-cc  nnd cdo ld be cli,n3n3ted
ftos 1981 O0-Srds.
NOTE,
ONCAD'3s cooperative asslstance eopenditures, as well as SODEVA's rntecsioc servIce coots wcld be spent
.ith or tithout the project, asd have not been accoonted For In the c.sh flo- reslting from  thit.
proJect,



ANNEX 9
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
The following elements served as a basis for calculating the rate
ci' r-t +urn:
Prices.  International price forecasts ,?t, Ic'- or cit leve1p,
including allowances for transDortation costs and handling charges, have
been used to arrive at the economie value of project produce at the
farmgate (Annex 5, tables 1 through 4). For groundnuts, this calculation
included the net return to millers on local groundnut purchases (Annex 5,
table 1).  Since the Senegalese milling industry is largely under foreign
ownership, it has been assunred that this part of project benefits cannot
be imputed to the local economiy, and a proportional reduction has been
made in the farmgate price for groundnuts. Farmgate prices used for the
purpose of economic rate of return calculation are listed in table i of
this Annex; except in the case of groundnuts, they are similar to those
arrived at in Annex 5.
Development Period.  Farmers would obtain the full increase
in production resulting from the use of implenents from the first year
of purchase onwards.  Farmers would start using fertilizer from the third
year onwards, but it is assumed that the .fÙll effect of fertilizer use
would be achieved after three years. The life of the project has been
assumed to be 13 years, taking into account that `the useful life of
equipment purchased under the project is on average about 10 years and
that purchases of such equipment would be phased over three years.
Farm Production Costs.  Incremental farm production costs
are based on the tarm budgets presented in Annex 7; however, the following
twoadjuatments have been made:  (1) instead of the subsidized price of
fertilizer (CFAF 12/kg), the ongoing price ex-factory plus transportation
costs (CFAF 30/kg) has been used; and (2) on type B farmis, the family
labor requirements at peak utilization periods have been costed at the
current wage rate of hired labor of CFAF 150/day.
Technical Assistance. In view of the fact that the
technical assistance to ONCAD would benefit the whole organization and
not just CNCADts activities directly related to farmers, only 20G of the
cost of such assistance has been imputed to the project. The technical



ANNEX 9
Page 2
assistance to SODEVA, on the other hand, would be related entirely to the
agencies' extension activities to £armers and the fhll cost has been
imputed to the project.
ONCAD and SODEVA Operating Costs. ONCAD's 1973-74 forecasted
operating budget relatedrto cooperatives is CFAF 175 million and would
decline progressively to about CFAF 90 million from 1980-81 onwards, while
SODEVA's 1973-74 operating budget would be CFAF 728 million, declining to
a level of about CFAF 545 million from 1980-81 onwards. Since 22% of all
Senegalese farmers who are cooperative members are expected to purchase
equipment in the three-year project period, 22% of ONCAD and SODEVA
operating costs has been imputed to the project.
2.           Under the foregoing assumptions, the estimated rate of return
of the project is 22% (Table 1).  The sensitivity of this estimate has been
tested against changes in some of the project's following key parameters:
(a) frequency of droughts, (b) producer price of groundnuts, (c) yields,
(d) costs and (e) a shadow rate off exchange of the CFA franc. The results
are shown below:
Rate of Return
a)  a drought occurrence which would:
- reduce production by 15% every 2nd year
=- T.'cdlue production by 30% every 4th year      17.8%
b)  an overall reduction of 10% on projected
groundnut prices                                  18.0%
c)  a reduction of the groundnut price to
CFAF 26,500 per ton from 1975 onwards
(instead of fr«m 1.980 onwards)                   13.2%
d)  a 10% reduction in overall yields                  16.4g
e)  a 10% overall increase in project investment
and operating costs                               20.0%
f)  a 25% over-valuation of the CFA franc (increasing
all project benefits with this percentage rate, and
increasing project costs by about 12%)            28.4%



SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTU8AL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Years                                           1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81 - 1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
Eeonomic farmgate prices used (CFAF/ton)
- Groundnuts                              37,815    35,820    33,445    30,680       28,010    25,290    22,920                20,900    20,900    20,900
- Millet                                  17,780    18,110    18,460    18,720       18,850    18,960    19,100                 19,185    19,185    19,185
- Sorghum                                 18,000    18,200    18,450    18,700       19,100    19,400    19,700                19,910    19,910    19,910
- Rice                                    14,500    14,650    14,800    14,950       15,150    15,350    15,350                15,350    15,350    15,350
- Cotton                                 27,650    27,250    26,900    26,500        26,100    25,700    25,300                24,950    24,950    24,950
------------------------------------CFAF million--------------------______-_______________________________
Value of incremental production
- Groundnuts                               224.2     535.5      710.7     859.8       855.0      851.6     815.4                 743.5     495.7      247.8
- Millet                                    18.7      45.3       72.9      103.0      115.0      127.0      133.7                134.3      89.5       44.8
- Sorghum                                   -          1.8        1.8       3.2         8.0        9.7      15.8                  15.9      10.6        5.3
- Rice                                      -         -          -          29.9       60.6       92.1      92.1                  92.1      61.4       30.7
- Cotton                                    -          _         -          33.9       66.8       98.7      97.2                  95.8      63.9       31.9
Total Benefits            242.9      582.6     785.4   1,029.8    1,105.4   1,179.1   1,154.2                 1,081.6      721.1     360.5
Purchase of implements under the project         619.6     637.8      676.9       -           -         -          -                    _           _        _
Purchase of draft animals                        190.0      190.0     240.0       -           -         -          -                    -           -         -
Incremental production costs on the farm         115.2      115.2     115.2      226.1      226.1      226.1      226.1                226A       150.7      75.4
Equipment and buildings for SODEVA                31.0       76.0       12.0                  -         -          -                    -           -         -
Technical assistance to ONCAD                      6.o        6.0        3.0      -                     -          .
Technical assistance to SODEVA                    34.5       3h.5       -         -           -          -         -                    -           -         -
ONCAD costs for cooperative services              38.5       38.5      36.0       33.2        29.5      26.0       22.5                 19.8       13.2        6.6
SODEVA costs for extension services              160.2      160.2     160.2      140.5       140.5     140.5      120.0                120.0       80.0       40.0
Total costs             1,195.0   1,258.2   1,2h3.3       399.8       396.1     392.6      368.6                365.9      243.9      122.0
Net Cost-benefit stream:                         (952.1)   (675-6)   (457-9)    630.0        709.3     786.5      785.6                715.7      477.2      238.5    tn
Rate of Return =   22%






16                        ~~~~~~~SENEGAL                                                       MAU  R       T  A   N   I  A                                                                           s4    N               4L£RAIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL C EDIT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                            MONl
PROJECT LOCATION                               e                                                                                                                                                                             I!
--  Regional boundcîriesGAO                                                                                                                                                                                         -r
De---  portmnntol bouvoon~es                                                     G                                                                                                                                 -JU'PER 
@ Reg,onol captolO                                                                                                                                                                              U6E                         NIOERIA
o    [epartmentol captais                                                                                                                                                                SIeRRA LO,~1~~  
-      ~Iffermilttoni streams                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAMEInt0R
&       20    0       40   6      0
0  20  MOIS ~~~~~~~  60 ~Kebe.eer                                                      fLge
At! a n t ic                          R                
REGION OF                                                D     1o U.R--<E.                       L
CAP VERT
DAKAR               -T-HIE                                                                                                    
Q co'au'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -R  E   /  I                                                                                                                                                                         -N
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
I-Delta Rkce Praject -Ib8RD
2  -Lougo-Kebemer Agnicullural Dewlopmeet                           4 Noo
3  -SODEVA PROJECT-Grourndeut,Milet -Ge6 
4-Sine Saloumr Project - OCCE......
5  -Ter,es Neuves Proeact- IBRD                                                                                                                                                              E    N  ?'T--'A   L-
6  -Cottoe Projeet                                                                                   r
7  -Casameance Rice Project - F ED                                                   nrar4 
8-Casamance Rice Project-IRRO
9-Casamncoee Agricultuarl Developmrent                                                                      od
Projeci - FED -Rap ot China iTaïwran)7
..im,t. of Cotton Projects 
.. ...O..s....e.....   .
P 0  R T,, U GU E S E    G                      E AG  U         EA






O      25      50      75     '00                                                                                                                                   S    EA
KILOM'ETERS                                                                             ~~~~~~~SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT  PROJECT
Q   2,0       4,O       6,040
MIL ES s, '                                                                                                                             RAINFALL  AND CUJLTIVATION
3'                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERCENTAGE 0F CULTIVATEO LAND
30                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30
LESS THAN 2%
OVE R 0%
r.00         ~~RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS
TOTAL DAYS 0F RAIN PER YEAR
600~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i odîîîiiii ii ii 5
15.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bpirdreeîo coîooh /
700    iBi/nnn i oIl,n
-<                                                     GUINEA                                   GUI  N~~~~~~~~~A  ~ ~ ~              30o        '~~M       L    
0                                                                                                     0~c 



