CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 404 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 404 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BNDS" means the Banque Nationale de Developpement du Sgnigal
established under Law No. 64-33 of the Borrower dated May 26, 1964.
(b)   "ONCAD" means the Office National de Coopration et d'Assistance
pour le Developpement established under Law No. 66-60 of the Borrower, dated
June 30, 1966, as amended by Law No. 67 46 of the Borrower, dated October 12,
1967.
(c)   "SODEVA" means the Socitd de Developpenent et de Vulgarisation
Agricole, a societe' anonyme established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower.
(d)   "IRAT" means the Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
et des Cultures Vivri6res, an instrumentality of the Government of the Republic
of France working in Senegal under a long-term contract with the Borrower.
(e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan under Part A(i) of the Project made or
purposed to be made by BNDS to a farmer.


﻿4
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BNDS pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million two hundred thousand
dollars ($8,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing


﻿5
July 1, 1983, and ending January 1, 2023, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
engineering and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, and
shall cause BNDS to provide in respect of Part A of the Project, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend to BNDS the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to finance Part A of the Project, and shall cause BNDS to carry out Part A of
*s       the Project and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required to carry out Part A of the Project, the whole under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BNDS
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, which shall include
repayment in 20 years, including 4 years of grace for principal repayments, and
interest on outstanding amounts at the rediscount rate charged by Banque Centrale
des Etats de l'Afrique de I'Ouest at the time the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is
executed.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights unde> the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable BNDS to perform all of
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause BNDS to establish and maintain a
separate Project Account to be used exclusively for Part A of the Project and
to record therein all its receipts and payments for or in connection therewith,


﻿6
including: (i) amounts received from and payments made to the Borrower under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) amounts disbursed and received under
sub-loans; and (iii) amounts disbursed and received under loans under Part A(ii)
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause BNDS to make loans under Part
A of the Project in amounts equ,.l to the entire cost of the goods to be financed,
with a repayment period of five years, and carrying interest on outstanding amounts
at a rate of 2 percentage points higher than the rate of interest provided for in
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts D and
E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿7
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause SODEVA to employ four agronomists
with qualifications satisfactory to the Association, within three months after the
date of this Agreement, for a period of two years, to assist SODEVA in carrying
out Parts E(ii) and E(iii) of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause SODEVA to submit to the
Association, within six months after the date of this Agreement or such other
period of time as the Association shall agree, detailed proposals on methods and
procedures to collect and analyze information on the performance of farmers who
have received sub-loans under Part A(i) or loans under Part A(ii) of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause ONCAD to enter, each year, into
groundnut transport contracts only with private trucking firms of good standing
and which are well managed.
Section 3.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall within twelve months after the date of this Agreement, take all action
necessary to ensure that the suppliers of fertilizer and implements undertake the
delivery of such goods to the cooperatives.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BNDS and ONCAD            to: (i) have their
respective accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿8
Section 4.02. Until the findings of the study on the use of fertilizers referred
to in Part E(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement are known, the Borrower shall
direct its extension services to adapt fertilizer dosages and formulae in the area
north of the Tivaouane-Touba line in the Groundnut Basin to the ecological
conditions of that area.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall consult each year with the Association
on the level of subsidies on groundnut and millet fertilizer granted by the Borrower,
with a view to its progressive reduction.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of BNDS, and
the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or other agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes or the Credit;
and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of BNDS, and
the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or other agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
any part   of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform    each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿9
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes t?lated to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
*        imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿10
(a)   The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have dissolved
or disestablished BNDS, ONCAD or SODEVA or have suspended their operations,
without the prior approval of the Association.
(b)   The legislation governing BNDS, ONCAD or SODEVA shall have been
amended, suspended, terminated or repealed so as to affect adversely the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, any of the events specified
in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been executed and delivered.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and executed and delivered
on behalf of and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date October 30, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.06(b), 3.10,
4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Sections 7.02 and
7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 15 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿11
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rue Charles Lafn6
Bofte Postale 4017
Dakar, S6ndgal
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ A. Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ X. de la Renaudiere
Director
Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Sub-loans under               6,300,000            75% of amounts
Part A(i) of the                                   disbursed under
Project                                            the sub-loans
II.   Equipment and                   450,000            87% of total
buildings                                          expenditures
III.  Technical assistance
(a)   to ONCAD                  200,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)   to SODEVA                 300,000            100% of total ex-
penditures
IV.   Studies                         500,000            100% of total ex-
penditures
V.    Unallocated                     450,000
TOTAL         8,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
ploduced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and


﻿13
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent That the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of the program of the Borrower to increase its
agricultural production, consists of:
Part A:     Provision of medium-term  credit for procuring:
(i)         animal-drawn implements and carts; and
(ii)        draft animals.
Part B:     Procurement of transportation, office and demonstration equipment
for SODEVA, and equipment for IRAT to continue rhizobium
research.
Part C:     Construction of buildings and procurement of teaching equipment for
SODEVA's training center for extension agents.
Part D:     Provision of technical assistance to ONCAD and SODEVA.
Part E:     Carrying out (i) a seed storage study, (ii) a survey on fertilizer response,
and (iii) a feasibility study on the extension of the Sine-Saloum
production improvement scheme.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Identical or similar goods shall be grouped together, whenever practicable,
for the purpose of procurement.
2.    With respect to any contract for any goods and associated services except
those under paragraph 5 of this Schedule, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000, or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for any goods and associated services
except those under paragraph 5 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together


﻿17
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    (a)   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for goods,
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar
taxes on locally produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter
provided, and bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of
entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods.
The cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into
account in the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines
for Procurement.
(b)   For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
(i)         Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured
in Senegal if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in Senegal of not less than
20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(ii)        Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Senegal.
(iii)       Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (i) or
(ii) above.
(c)   For goods included in Category II of the table set out in paragraph
1 of Schedule I to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by
the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by
adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred
Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal
to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
(d)   If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all
evaluated bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences
indicated below:


﻿18
Stage                      Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred          None
Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign          Preference
Bids;                                             Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage II is not          None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, all
Foreign Bids.
(e)   The Bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will
be granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
5.    Contracts for the supply of implements under Part A of the Project shall
be awarded on a negotiated basis and with the prior approval of the Association.
Specifications for such implements shall be subject to the approval of the
Association.
6.    For each annual agricultural program, ONCAD shall, between November and
February, collect orders from the farmers and shall furnish them to the
manufacturers of farm implements to enable them to plan their production and
delivery schedules in due time.


