Report No. PID7176
Project Name                     Bosnia Herzegovina-Basic Health...
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Human Development - Health, Nutrition and
Population
Project ID                       BAPE44523
Borrower                         Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agency              For the Federation of BiH:
Ministry of Health
Alipasina 41, Sarajevo 7100
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Phone: +387 71 618 735
Fax:   +387 71 618 735
For the Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Phone: +381 78 36 740
Fax:   +381 78 36 742
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           November 26, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         January 18, 1999
Projected Board Date             April 29, 1999
Country and Sector Background
The principal issues in the health sector are the absence of a
sustainable health finance system and a mismatch between health needs and
health services. These, in turn, are caused by multiple factors related to
the weak economy, political and social context, infrastructure, incentives and
management systems as well as training and deployment of staff.
Sector Issues and Government Policy
The post-war reconstruction and development programs in both Entities, of
which the Bank is supportive, emphasize the development of a Basic Health
Program. The main elements are primary health care based on the family
medicine concept, a shift from the pre-war emphasis on large hospitals and
polyclinics towards more efficient use of out-patient facilities and home-
based care, and a greater emphasis on cost-effective public health, disease
prevention and control. In the Federation, elements of this strategy are
outlined in several documents, including the following: Federation Health
Program: Health Reform and Reconstruction (January 1998); Public Health and
Health Care: Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (January 1997); and a draft
Strategic Health System: Plan, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (1998).
In the Republika Srpska, Government strategy is outlined in several documents,



including the following: Republika Srpska: Strategic Plan for Health System
Reform and Reconstruction 1997-2000 (1997) and Public Health and Health Care:
Republika Srpska (January 1997).
Although the principles are sound and each Ministry of Health is focused
on the right objectives, the strategies and implementation plans need greater
focus to address the systemic problems. In addition, there is a need to
define clearly benchmarks, assumptions, indicative timelines and workplans.
Objectives
The proposed Project is the third in a planned series of three operations
in support of the Government's health sector recovery and development program.
Its objective is to support the development of a viable Basic Health System of
primary health care, public health and disease control.
More specifically, the Project would support the: (i) establishment of a
cost-effective primary health care system; (ii) reduction of lost productivity
due to preventable illnesses, disabilities and premature deaths; and (iii)
improvement of national capacity for managing the health sector. These
objectives would be achieved through: (i) training and deployment of family
doctors, nurses and allied professionals; (ii) incentives and innovative
techniques to increase the productivity of health service managers, family
doctors, nurses and allied professionals; (iii) rehabilitation and equipping
of primary care facilities; (iv) development of regulations, institutions and
competencies for accreditation and quality assurance; and (v) policies and
interventions for the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases,
accidents and injuries.
Description
The Project will consist of four key components:
1. Primary Health Care: This component would help to establish a system
for delivery and management of cost-effective health services.
Strategic plans, curriculum development and implementation guidelines
would be prepared for use in the whole country. In order to develop and
test the full range of activities required for effectiveness,
implementation under the project would concentrate on selected pilot
sites (cantons/municipalities in the Federation, regions/municipalities
in the Republika Srpska), rather than try to cover the entire country.
The pilots would be evaluated. Extension of activities would be guided
by the findings of the evaluation.    It would include four   sub-
components:
1.1. Development of Family Medicine: This sub-component would support
planning, curriculum development and implementation of training programs
in family medicine and nursing. Inputs would include technical
assistance, learning materials, seminars, workshops, travel and
incremental operating costs.
1.2. Infrastructure and Equipment: This sub-component would support
civil works, essential diagnostic and therapeutic equipment, and
incremental operating costs    for clinical primary health care in
selected locations.
-2-



1.3. Management Training and Capacity Building: This sub-component would
provide technical assistance, equipment, limited civil works and
incremental operating costs for: (a) formulation of regulations and
legislation to professionalize the management of health services, (b)
institutional support for curriculum development and management
training programs in health services management; and ( c) the actual
training of current and potential health service managers.     It would
address the inadequacies of health management and administration being
undertaken almost exclusively by doctors and nurses. In a system where
major changes in financing and organization are underway or imminent,
expertise specific to health financing and management are needed.
1.4. Management and Performance Incentives: This sub-component would
support the development and first-phase (pilot) implementation of new
systems for remuneration of primary care physicians, including but not
limited to weighted capitation.
2. Public Health and Disease Control : This component would support
capacity building, planning and implementation of interventions for the
prevention and control of diseases with significant impact on the burden
of disease.
2.1. Institutional Support. This sub-component would support technical
and management training in the Institute of Public Health of each Entity;
Surveillance and Monitoring System (mortality data, NCD risk factor
survey, children and youth survey); upgrading of the information system
for mortality data by ICD codes; and Tobacco Control Strategy.
2.2. Public Health Innovation Grants.
This sub-component would support, through competitive processes, local
initiatives and approaches to health promotion and disease control.
Emphasis would be placed on tobacco control, prevention and control of
hypertension, prevention and control of diabetes, adaptation and use of
clinical prevention guidelines, youth health, occupational health,
tuberculosis prevention and control, and HIV/AIDS prevention.
3.   Accreditation and Quality Assurance.
This component, of limited scope, would support technical assistance,
equipment and incremental operating costs for the early stage of a
quality improvement strategy in each Entity. In the short-term, emphasis
would be on regulations, institution building and staff development.
4. Project Management This component would support project management
and implementation over a three-year period. The current status of work
on project management structures and procedures is summarized in Section
C4.
Financing
IDA financing of US$10.0 million would cover top priority components of the
Project. If the needed co-financing were not available for any reason, the
Project scope would be reduced to fit within the available funds, with
priority given to those components financed through IDA. Such reduction will
not in any case reduce the viability of the Project, since its design is based
-3 -



on functional sub-units within the Project. Other modules of the Program are
being prepared but would be implemented through parallel financing.
Implementation
The proposed Project is a single operation with two parts, one in each
Entity, as in the ongoing Essential Hospital Services Project. It would be
managed by a Project Coordinating Unit in each Entity. The Ministry of Health
of each Entity will be the implementing agency for the Project.
Sustainability
The following factors will influence the sustainability of the Project:
(i) macroeconomic growth; (ii) political stability; (iii) Government
willingness to implement a disciplined approach to health sector development
based on considerations of efficiency and cost-effectiveness; (iv) local
capacity for effective implementation; and (v) Bank willingness to engage in a
near-term, iterative process of capacity building in the sector.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of the Basic Health Project (BHS) builds on experience on the
War Victims Rehabilitation Project (WVR) and the Essential Hospital Services
Project (EHS). The BHS will draw benefits from: (i) the satisfactory results
derived from the emphasis placed on investment criteria and ownership to sub-
Entity levels in the WVR; (ii) the experience and competence gained by the
PIUs in managing both projects, as well as their familiarity with IDA, which
will assure successful implementation of the BHS; and (iii) the effective
consultations with NGOs and partner agencies, which will provide coordination
and collaboration with donors.
Poverty Category
Program of Targeted Interventions.
Environmental Aspects
The Project is rated a category 'C'. No adverse environmental effects
are anticipated. The Project will follow accepted IDA procedures. All
project activities will incorporate appropriate and safe disposal of wastes.
Program Objective Categories
Poverty Reduction
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Olusoji Adeyi, ECSHD
- 4 -



The World Bank
Human Development Unit Hub
Bank Center - Granite Tower
Szabadsag ter 5-7
H-1944 Budapest, Hungary
Satellite
Telephone No.:           565-104#
Satellite Fax No.:       565-140#
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 18, 1998.
- 5 -



