Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3202 BOS
Republika Srpska Project Agreement
(Basic Health Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated as of June 3, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3202 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 3, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and REPUBLIKA SRPSKA (RS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,400,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Republika Srpska agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Republika Srpska the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to Republika Srpska on terms and conditions 
set forth in said RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS Republika Srpska in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Republika Srpska declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, health, environmental, and 
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Republika Srpska shall otherwise agree, Republika 
Srpska shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Republika Srpska shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Republika Srpska shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and Republika Srpska a plan for the future operation of Part B of the 
Project; (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Republika Srpska on said plan; and (iii) thereafter, carry out said plan with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon.
Section 2.04. (a) Republika Srpska shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Republika Srpska shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Republika 
Srpska of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Republika Srpska shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures and in connection with the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
Republika Srpska shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  3
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Republika Srpska shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable Republika Srpska, not later than 
December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association,  each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part B 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
Part B of the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Part B of the Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation  targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Republika Srpska shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Republika Srpska thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Republika 
Srpska of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Republika 
Srpska or by Republika Srpska on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other 
person or persons as he/she shall designate in writing, and he/she shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/ M. Dodik
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Schedule
1.
Republika Srpska shall maintain the RS PCU, which shall be responsible for the 
overall implementation and coordination of the Project, with adequate staff, funds, 
facilities and other resources required for this purpose in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Republika Srpska shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content 
satisfactory to the Association, shall duly perform its obligations under the 
Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational 
Manual without the prior approval of the Association.
Page  5
3.
Republika Srpska shall maintain  the PMAU with adequate staff, funds, facilities 
and other resources satisfactory to the Association for purposes of procurement 
monitoring and audit of procurement activities for Part B of the Project.
4.
Republika Srpska shall carry out Part B.2 (b) of the Project through the RS PCU 
and the Public Health Institute of Republika Srpska under terms of reference and in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.  Without limitation or 
restriction upon the foregoing, Republika Srpska shall make available to eligible 
Beneficiaries as Public Health Innovation Grants the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to Category B(10) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement under subsidiary grant 
agreements to be entered into between Republika Srpska and Beneficiaries under terms 
and conditions and in accordance with indicators which shall have been approved by the 
Association and which shall be specified in the Operational Manual.
5.
Republika Srpska shall, not later than September 30, 2000, establish an agency 
for accreditation and quality improvement pursuant to Part B.3 of the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
6.
Republika Srpska shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
2.
(a)
Paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines is modified to read as follows: "1.6.  
The proceeds of the Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries.  Consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall not be eligible to bid 
for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify." 
(b)
The reference in paragraph 1.8 of the Guidelines to "member country" 
shall be deemed to be a reference to "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods estimated to cost 
more than $100,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
Page  6
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or less equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $280,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods (books, intellectual property and spare parts) which must be purchased 
from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are of a 
proprietary nature and costing $50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 1, Part B and Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to all contracts to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 1, Part C.2 of this Schedule, the first five contracts to be 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 1, Part C.3 of this Schedule, and 
the first five contracts in each pilot canton to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 1, Part C.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
Page  7
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
Page  8
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
