                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 29945

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-32020 TF-23688 TF-52112)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.4 MILLION (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                         FOR A

                                BASIC HEALTH PROJECT




                                    October 20, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective October 20, 2004)

            Currency Unit = Konvertible Mark (KM)
              KM1.56711 = US$ 1.00
             US$ 0.63812 = KM1.00

                   FISCAL YEAR
            January 1 to    December 31

      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


 BBC     British Broadcasting Corporation
 BHP     Basic Health Project
   BIH   Bosnia and Herzegovina
  CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
 CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
  CME    Continuing Medical Education
  DCA    Development Credit Agreement
    DO   Development Objective
  ECA    Europe and Central Asia
EMSAC    Economic Management Sector Adjustment Credit
  FBiH   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
   HIF   Health Insurance Fund
   ICR   Implementation Completion Report
   IDA   International Development Association
  OED    Operations Evaluation Department
  PCU    Project Coordination Unit
  PHC    Primary Health Care
  PMU    Project Management Unit
  QAG    Quality Assurance Group
    RS   Republika Srpska
 SITAP   Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project
SOSAC    Social Sector Adjustment Credit
    TA   Technical Assistance
  TOR    Terms of Reference
 TOT     Training of Trainers



          Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
        Country Director       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
         Sector Manager        Armin H. Fidler
       Task Team Leader        Betty Hanan

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                                       BASIC HEALTH


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              5
6. Sustainability                                                                  6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      26

Project ID: P044523                                                  Project Name: BASIC HEALTH
Team Leader: Betty Hanan                                             TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BASIC HEALTH                                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-32020; TF-23688;
                                                                                                     TF-52112
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (82%); Central government administration (18%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Other human development (S);
                            Other communicable diseases (S); Population and reproductive
                            health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/10/1998                                     Effective: 09/01/1999                09/01/1999
     Appraisal: 01/19/1999                                         MTR: 05/31/2001                  01/21/2002
      Approval: 05/04/1999                                      Closing: 08/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/FED. OF BIH AND REPUBLIKA
                                           SRPSKA MINISTRIES OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:      Government of Italy; Government of Japan

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Armin H. Fidler                                Chris Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:             Betty Hanan                                    Olusoji O. Adeyi
ICR Primary Author:             Peyvand Khaleghian


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project was designed with three objectives: to establish a primary health care system based on
cost-effective interventions; to reduce lost productivity due to preventable illnesses, disabilities and
premature deaths; and to improve local and national capacities for managing the health sector. Project
objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (date) and marked a shift from
post-war reconstruction efforts to institutional development and capacity building. This was the Bank's
third health sector operation in the Federation and second in Republika Srpska. Previous operations had
focused on civil works and equipment procurement for rehabilitation centers and hospitals and had included
little in the way of policy dialogue or sectoral reforms. The present Project was thus characterized by a
substantial increase in complexity over previous operations, calling as it did for wide-ranging (albeit pilot)
reforms in the organization, financing and delivery of primary care services and public health and the
introduction of innovations such as accreditation and quality assurance methods. This was an appropriate
and timely but ambitious move forward in the Bank's assistance strategy for BiH.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were maintained throughout project implementation.


3.3 Original Components:
The Project had three principal components: primary health care, public health and disease control, and
accreditation and quality assurance. The primary health care component ($6.5 million) helped introduce
the concept of `family medicine' in pilot regions in each Entity and supported complementary reforms in
medical education, health financing and health sector management. Performance was measured by the
number of facilities equipped and rehabilitated, the number of family medicine personnel trained and
deployed, the number of health sector managers and insurance fund staff trained in short courses, and the
proportion of family medicine teams operating under a capitation-like payment model. The public health
and disease control component ($1.7 million) helped modernize public health services in both Entities
through capacity-building efforts at Institutes of Public Health in Sarajevo and Banja Luka and the use of
demand-driven public health innovation grants in both Entities.        Performance was measured by the
completion of surveys (on non-communicable diseases, health services utilization and children and youth),
the development of a tobacco control strategy and adoption of strategic and business plans by each Entity's
Institute of Public Health. The accreditation and quality assurance component ($0.7 million) helped
establish agencies for accreditation and quality assurance in each Entity and supported the development of
clinical guidelines, quality standards and accreditation criteria.




3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were maintained throughout Project implementation.

                            Component                                      Cost              Rating
1. PRIMARY HEALTH CARE                                                   $6,500,000.00           S
2. PUBLIC HEALTH AND DESEASE CONTROL                                     $1,700,000.00           S
3. ACCREDITATION AND QUALITY ASSURANCE                                     $700,000.00           S
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                    $1,100,000.00           S




                                                      - 2 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This was a complex project for the Bosnia of 1999. It aimed to shore up the foundations of a basic health
system by strengthening multiple levels and dimensions of the health system at once by focusing
simultaneously on primary health care, health management, public health, and accreditation and quality
improvement and proposing far-reaching capacity building efforts and organizational and financing reforms
for each. This complexity was not reflected fully during project preparation. Implementing agencies
embarked on the project without an implementation strategy including draft TORs, time-lines, bidding
documents etc., and with no previous experience of this kind of project. (Previous Bank health projects
principally financed goods and civil works.)        This led to a delay of approximately one year before
implementation started in earnest. Project design was appropriate and grounded in sound analysis. It also
marked a shift in the style of assistance, called for in the CAS, from post-war reconstruction to institutional
development and policy reform. Project quality at entry is rated satisfactory. Further comments are
provided in Section 7.1.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the Project is rated satisfactory. The uptake of PHC reforms was faster and more
extensive than originally expected. The consistent and cross-cutting focus on preventive care and public
health lived up to the Project's objective to base the primary health care system "on cost-effective
interventions." Achievements by objective are as follows:

Development of a primary health care system based on cost-effective interventions. The Project successfully
transformed pilot PHC centers from low-skilled way stations between patients and hospitals to
highly-skilled and properly equipped providers of quality, cost-effective primary care. This was achieved
through a comprehensive approach to PHC-family medicine reform that included simultaneous
interventions on multiple fronts, including inter alia training to improve the clinical skills of existing PHC
providers (using the same curriculum in both Entities and across multiple donors), support for the
development of a post-graduate specialization program, civil works and equipment for PHC practices
employing re-trained doctors and nurses, efforts to introduce performance pay for primary care providers,
efforts to manage the transition to the new care model (e.g. registration campaign for patients to register
with newly-transformed PHC practices) and a strict focus on incorporating preventive care in all activities
financed by the Project (e.g. capitation formulas with specific provisions for preventive care, accreditation
requirements that emphasized prevention equally with curative care, and training curricula for doctors and
nurses that also had a prevention focus). This comprehensive approach was central to the Project's
success.   It made implementation risky and complex but was executed successfully and produced a
complete working model of a reformed PHC system that covered almost a quarter of the population in both
Entities. The financial and technical collaboration of CIDA and its contractor Queens University was
essential to the success of these efforts. The Project's emphasis on prevention also appears to have been
institutionalized. In Republika Srpska contracts between the Health Insurance Fund and PHC centers now
include an implicit 25 percent penalty for failure to perform specified preventive tasks, and the HIF has
entered into a separate contract with the Institute of Public Health to monitor health centers' compliance
with this requirement. This was not proposed by the Bank team (nor, it seems, by international experts)
but rather reflects an increasing awareness of prevention as an essential part of PHC: a realization that,
while not unique in principle, remains rare in practice.

Reduction of lost productivity due to preventable illnesses, disabilities and premature deaths. This was an




                                                       - 3 -

unusual choice for a development objective in such a broad-based health reform project. Improving health
outcomes is an objective of all health reform efforts but is hard to measure and usually takes longer than
3-4 years to demonstrate any impact. A more narrowly-defined DO would have been more appropriate.
That said, this objective is likely to have been met in several ways. The Project improved the quality and
range of services offered at the primary level and reduced the need for patients to seek care at higher levels
or to pay out-of-pocket for private health care. (Administrative data suggest a decline in hospital referral
rates by as much as 35 percent in pilot areas. Anecdotal reports suggest a similar decline in utilization of
fee-for-service providers, some of whom are reported to have closed their practices and opted for
re-training as family medicine specialists instead.) By reducing barriers to care, the Project is likely to
have reduced delays in care-seeking and had a positive impact on lost productivity due to preventable
illnesses, disabilities and premature deaths in pilot areas. Its emphasis on preventive care is likely to have
had similar effects. Public health innovation grants were favorably evaluated for their impact on defined
target groups. Also significant was the Project's support of tobacco control strategies in both Entities and
the consequent passage of anti-smoking legislation in both parliaments. Unfortunately the Project did not
carry out monitoring and evaluation in a way that made it possible to quantify these gains or estimate their
impact. This is a major lost opportunity, especially with a successful pilot project that would have been
ideally suited to a prospective matched comparison of intervention-vs.-control areas (see Section 8).

Improvement of national capacity for managing the health sector. This objective was also met, though
perhaps not as impressively as the first two. The project supported the development of a masters' degree
curricula for health management, trained through a Training of Trainers Program (TOT) a number of
trainers and provided a great number of short-term courses for health managers. It helped establish centers
for health management in both Entities. These trained a large number of mid-level and senior health
managers (111 in FBiH and 38 in RS). As recorded in the Borrower's Contribution in Annex 8, training
activities were successful at widely disseminating modern concepts of health management throughout both
Entities. Whether they had a corresponding impact on the practice of health management is harder to
judge, except perhaps in pilot facilities where their impact was clearly positive; and their impact at the
national (i.e. Entity) level is also hard to estimate, though the value of formal training for health managers
as opposed to ad hoc management by senior clinicians is now widely recognized as a result of the Project's
efforts. Newly-established degree programs in health management may address this problem in future, as
graduates are absorbed into the health system.          The Project's activities in accreditation and quality
assurance also had a positive impact on health management, especially in Republika Srpska where one of
the pilot facilities (Laktasi) underwent a rigorous quality improvement process in 2004 to meet
newly-established accreditation standards in that Entity.


4.2 Outputs by components:
These are extensively summarized in Annex 5, which lists monitoring indicators by project component.
Briefly, the Project supported re-training of PHC doctors in family medicine (188 in FBiH and 85 in RS), a
PHC specialization program (225 doctors in FBiH and 83 in RS), rehabilitation of pilot health centers
(covering 23 percent of the population in FBiH and 23 percent in RS), training of health managers (100 in
FBiH and 50 in RS), implementation of PHC financing reforms (69 percent of family medicine teams in
FBiH and 11 percent in RS) and implementation of public health innovation grants (6 in FBiH and 12 in
RS).    Other relevant outputs include tobacco control strategies and anti-smoking legislation in both
Entities; surveys on non-communicable disease risk factors, health services utilization and the health
behavior of children and youth; and strategic and business plans for Institutes of Public Health and
agencies for accreditation and quality assurance.




                                                       - 4 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's impact on institutional development is rated as substantial. The Project successfully carried
out a comprehensive, multi-dimensional PHC reform in a relatively short period and achieved substantial
population coverage with the new approach (23 percent in both Entities). It successfully introduced
elements of international best-practice in health care quality improvement, e.g. clinical guidelines, an
accreditation system and modern training in health care management. The Project also used pragmatic,
innovative methods to modernize the practice of public health: namely, a focus on discrete health objectives
(tobacco control, non-communicable diseases) and discrete skills (survey design, strategy development)
complemented with demand-driven grants to encourage innovation (subsequently taken up by the HIF in
RS: see Section 6.1). Business and strategic planning skills were also developed in key institutions, e.g.
institutes of public health and agencies for accreditation and quality assurance.

The Project also had a substantial positive impact on communication between agencies: both horizontally
(e.g. between insurance funds and institutes of public health in RS: see Section 8.7) and vertically (e.g.
between Federal and Cantonal authorities in FBiH).


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation of the Dayton Accords had an indirect positive impact on the Project through their effective
veto of ethnically-based Health Insurance Funds.         No external shocks significantly affected project
implementation.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
No government activities had a negative impact on project implementation.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In RS, sustained opposition to financing reforms by the director of the Republican Health Insurance Fund
effectively blocked implementation until late in the Project. Implementation of PHC reforms was also
delayed in RS due to a change in leadership at the first pilot site. (The original choice of site was not a
mistake--the first director of Dom Zdravlje Trebinje was supportive of the family medicine concept and
welcomed the opportunity to pilot it--but the subsequent director, a political appointee, was antagonistic.)
The Project thus lost a year before it could successfully pilot the family medicine component in RS.

With these exceptions, no implementing agency actions adversely affected project implementation.


5.4 Costs and financing:
All project activities were successfully financed within the envelope estimated at appraisal.         Local
contributions were considerably higher than expected in both Entities as the demonstration effect of PHC
pilot sites led non-pilot health centers to invest their own funds in rehabilitation, equipment, information



                                                     - 5 -

systems and provider training. This enabled Credit funds to cover more sites than originally expected. (In
West Herzegovina, for example, counterpart contributions for civil works came to 77 percent of the total.)

The Credit closing date was extended twice: once at mid-term review (2002) by one year, and once in
January 2004 by four months.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated likely in both Entities. Sustainability of PHC reforms is rated highly likely
while those of other activities is rated likely. Reforms were designed with attention to quality and have
generally ended up on a sound footing. Extension of the Project's closing date by a year was a major factor
in securing these gains: the rating would not have been the same if the Project had closed a year earlier.
The Bank team's final aide mémoire gives a number of examples of project sustainability, inter alia the
agreement of Health Insurance Funds in both Entities to meet operating costs of their centers for
accreditation; the formal incorporation into university curricula of post-graduate family medicine
specialization programs; the higher-than-expected level of government contribution to civil works for
rehabilitating PHC practices; the agreement of the Health Insurance Fund in Republika Srpska to continue
financing public health innovation grants and its decision to incorporate preventive care criteria in the
reimbursement formula for family medicine practices; the passage of laws on tobacco control in both
Entities; and others. These achievements reflect a combination of effort by project implementation staff,
support from the Bank team, a focus on quality in institutional design and procurement of technical
assistance, demonstration effects, and serendipity. The Project did not provide sufficient support for
stakeholder consultations, communication, change management and public relations. Instead it relied for
these activities on personal contacts and self-motivated activity by project implementation staff, much of
which (e.g. ad hoc opinion surveys and PR activities) was carried out very successfully. Opposition from
some groups (e.g. medical associations, physician-parliamentarians and some HIF directors) remains
possible and may create obstacles to scaling-up. Institutionally too a number of gaps remain--among them
the lack of a strong legal foundation for financing reforms, questions about the legal status of family
medicine practices, the future of health management training in FBiH, the future of organizational reforms
proposed for the Institute of Public Health in RS, the future of post-graduate specialization programs in
family medicine (supported hitherto by a Canadian university under a multi-year CIDA contract that is
soon to expire), and the lack of revised standards and guidelines for PHC that are consistent with the family
medicine model and address issues such as financial responsibility for on-the-job training and the surplus of
non-PHC specialists in primary care, and others. Some of these are being addressed with technical
assistance under the ongoing SITAP operation: actually implementing them will need more support in
subsequent investment and adjustment operations, e.g. the proposed Health Scale Up Project, since many of
these unresolved issues are politically difficult (e.g. application of new standards and norms, retrenchment
of staff in multi-ethnic Cantons that over-hired during the period of ethnic duplication, legislative reforms
to permit direct contracting between HIFs and providers, etc.).

With its federal structure and 10 semi-autonomous Cantons, sustainability was harder to achieve in FBiH
than RS. This underscores the importance of resolving legislative and policy issues at the Federation level
before scaling-up the reforms and suggest the need for even greater support of change management,
communications and PR efforts in that Entity.

The Project Appraisal Document and aide mémoires repeatedly emphasized the fact that reforms, especially
those concerning the organization and financing of primary health care, were being piloted by the Project.



                                                      - 6 -

This was an effective demonstration project that showed that wide-ranging and comprehensive PHC
reforms could be successfully implemented in Bosnia. In so doing it set the stage for scaling up these
reforms throughout the country. Sustainability should be judged accordingly. See Section 8.5 for further
discussion.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
These are summarized in the project teams' final aide mémoire and include the following:
§ ProposedHealthScale-UpProjectinFY05toexpandfamilymedicinereformsthroughoutBiH;
§ Present SITAP operation to provide TA and limited training as a precursor to the proposed Health
    Scale-Up Project, being implemented within line ministries with implementation support provided by
    short-term consultants for a limited period except for fiduciary functions;
§ Implementation arrangements for proposed Health Scale-Up Project to be located entirely within line
    ministries with even less external support than under SITAP, except for fiduciary functions;
§ Recurrent financing provided for new agencies and activities: for Accreditation and Quality Assurance
    agencies, by HIF in RS and FHIF in BiH; for postgraduate specialization programs in family medicine,
    by universities in both Entities; for public health innovation grants, by HIF, in RS only; for accredited
    health facilities, by HIF, in RS only; and for family medicine centers, including incentive payments, by
    HIF in RS and pilot Canton HIFs in FBiH.

Notwithstanding the achievements and demonstration effect of the project, a number of points should be
taken into account in preparing the proposed successor operation (Health Scale Up Project). These include
the following:
§ The need to ensure a sound legal basis for family medicine-style PHC practice. The last revision of
    health laws that touched substantially on primary care was in 1997 for FBiH and 1999 for RS.
    However, the latter law was amended in 2000, 2001 and 2002 to introduce family medicine
    specialization, Program for Additional Training and Federal Solidarity Fund respectively. Nonetheless,
    there is still need for further amendments to allow direct contracting with Family Medicine teams.
    Because of some ambiguities in the legislation, a ministerial decree was required for pilot sites to
    proceed with contracting. Even with this decree, implementation was sometimes slowed or opposed on
    the grounds that the project's interventions were 'illegal'. Failure to update these laws to reflect the new
    care model may jeopardize scale-up efforts. Allowing HIFs to contract directly with primary care
    providers is likely to be an important part of this.
§ The need to prepare a comprehensive PHC master plan as a guide to scale-up efforts. Population
    movements over the past 10 years have created a mismatch between the population and the location of
    health facilities. Excess hiring of staff during the period of ethnic separation has compounded this
    problem in some Cantons in FBiH (although some of this seems to have been solved through attrition
    and migration). Correcting these imbalances will require a review of census and survey data and a
    comprehensive PHC master plan covering both facilities and human resources. This should be carried
    out early in the scale-up effort, but should not preclude the new project from working in areas where a
    clear balance already exists.
§ The need to clarify unresolved issues in health financing. The BHP set out to implement a mixed
    capitation model of provider payment in PHC. For various reasons, not least among them resistance
    from the HIF in RS and selected Cantonal HIFs in FBiH, this was not fully implemented. A range of
    alternatives was pursued instead, from salary bonuses for re-trained staff to incentive payments and
    differential reimbursement for reformed health centers. These natural experiments were appropriate in
    the pilot phase: but if the reforms are to be scaled up effectively, broader consensus is required on the
    financing model during the scaling up process. Technical assistance provided during the Project (and
    currently under SITAP) provides a basis for these discussions, as does the experience of pilot sites over



                                                      - 7 -

    the past three years; but the outcome should be formally embedded in law, as pointed out above.
§ The need for revised human resources and facilities standards. Like many ex-Yugoslav republics, BiH
    uses human resources and facilities standards developed in the 1970s. These should be updated to
    reflect the family medicine model and avoid conflict during scale-up efforts.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank carried out extensive analytical work during Project preparation. These included reviews of the
pharmaceutical sector, the public health system, the health financing system, the burden of disease and
related risk factors, and the primary healthcare provider network. Much of this work was commissioned
specifically to guide project preparation. This was reflected in the Project Appraisal Document and its
Annexes, which were technically comprehensive and provided a strong analytical foundation for the
strategic choices made during project design. Sensitive issues were also dealt with carefully, such as
redistribution and `solidarity' issues concerning ethnically-based Health Insurance Funds. Preparation was
also made challenging by the crowded field of existing players in some areas (notably primary care) and the
difficulty of constructing the Bank's support in a way that would complement and consolidate existing
efforts, promote long-term sustainability and provide a suitable model for future scaling-up. Prior to the
Project, over 90 non-governmental and other organizations were actively supporting various aspects of
primary health care, from training programs to financing reforms and almost everything in between. The
Bank's performance in bringing together these diverse strands of activity, adjusting to the complexities of a
post-conflict environment, sensitively dealing with still-present ethnic tensions (including initially between
project implementation staff) and working successfully with counterparts in the government and the donor
community to identify a sustainable care model and transition path is rated satisfactory. The rating would
have been higher except for the relative lack of guidance on project implementation at effectiveness and the
resulting delays in implementation, as described in Section 8.2 and further detailed in the Borrower's
Contributions to the ICR. Also of concern is the apparent lack of attention to monitoring and evaluation.
This especially disappointing given the design of the project and the relative ease with which a world-class
(and world-first) comparative evaluation could have been carried out: though to be fair, recognizing this
opportunity in 1999 would have required unusual foresight in view of the complex implementation context
and the guarded expectations to which this gave rise.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. This is reflected in comments in the
Borrower's contributions to the ICR and in the highly favorable attitude of government and donor
counterparts to the Bank's supervision team. The Bank team lived up to the expectation noted at appraisal
that the Bank should provide "above average support for implementation." Supervision documents were
comprehensive and timely and extensive support was also provided between missions, both formally and
informally. The team took a deliberately hands-on approach to managing the reform process by providing
regular guidance on strategic issues while urging counterparts to take key decisions independently and
judiciously intervening at critical bottlenecks when necessary (e.g. temporarily withholding funds from a
Canton that failed to merge ethnically-based health insurance funds). It also maintained a strict focus on
quality in all project activities and helped project implementation units do the same. This helped attract
world-class technical assistance for all components and had a substantial impact on the Project's eventual
success. Project implementation units in both Entities had an excellent relationship with the Bank team and
relied extensively on the team for guidance, especially in the first years of project implementation; the Bank
team in turn gave them progressively greater autonomy as their skills developed and their confidence grew.


                                                     - 8 -

(An early challenge in FBiH was the forced merger of two ethnically-based project implementation units
into one, as required by the DCA. This was negotiated successfully by ensuring ethnic balance in the
consolidated PMU: but with the supervision team's guidance and example, ethnicity became less and less
prominent in selection decisions as the Project moved forward and by 2003 there was little remaining
evidence of the ethnic polarization that had existed earlier.) Collaboration with CIDA and its contractor
Queens University was exceptional and was essential to the success of the PHC component. Team
composition was appropriate, with an economist joining the team late in implementation to review the
project and identify relevant TA requirements for the SITAP operation. Linkages to adjustment work
might also have been exploited more vigorously, e.g. to lock in reform milestones and address sustainability
issues, though this would have required more exposure to adjustment operations than the team appears to
have received. (The last use of adjustment conditionality in the health sector in BiH was under PFSAC-2
in 1999. Subsequent SOSAC operations in 2001 and 2004 focused exclusively on social protection issues.
The absence of health conditions from EMSAC in 2004 is puzzling.) Aide mémoires are replete with
evidence of the supervision team's close attention to cultural change and institutional development in
participating agencies: on monitoring and evaluation, however, the team's attention was focused on
implementation milestones rather than a more analytically rigorous analysis of the Project's impact. This is
discussed further in Section 8.

The Bank team also fostered inter-Entity collaboration as an implicit development objective of the Project.
This was done in a measured but deliberate way and led eventually to routine information-sharing between
project implementation units in the two Entities, joint tenders, attendance of both Entities' health ministers
at project-related events, and common decisions on issues such as the content of re-training and health
management curricula.      This is a remarkable achievement that deserves formal recognition as a
development outcome of the Project.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. Both governments were
active participants in preparing the project and collaboration between government staff, project
implementation unit staff and the Bank team was good.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
In both Entities government support for the Project and its objectives was strong and sustained in spite of
several changes of government. Tangibly, however, government staff at the Entity level were relatively
uninvolved in day-to-day implementation of the project, and the level of skills-transfer and direct ownership
was modest. This appears to have been a deliberate matter of institutional design on the Bank's part: i.e. a
stronger focus on project implementation staff than counterparts in the core public sector. This was not
entirely inappropriate given the post-war context, the pilot nature of the project, and the critical need to
create a demonstration effect for the success of future reforms.         To meet these objectives, project
implementation units in both Entities were given the authority, implicitly by the Bank and explicitly by their
governments, to occupy the driver's seat on project implementation issues and related reform matters. As a
result, government implementation performance, interpreted here as the performance of the government ex-
implementing units, is rated satisfactory for both the Federation and Republika Srpska.



                                                     - 9 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of implementing agencies in both Entities is rated satisfactory. Beyond the initial
teething phase, implementing units in both Entities were staffed with highly qualified and motivated staff
with expertise and experience relevant to their duties. In some measure the project's success in both
Entities can be attributed to these staffs' unusual degree of personal commitment to the Project and their
personal advocacy of the reform process. In both Entities, implementing unit staff spent extended periods
traveling to project sites, meeting key stakeholders and providing day-to-day guidance; provided
substantive input on issues of dispute, both preemptively and on an ad hoc basis; carried out public
relations activities on their own initiative; collaborated flexibly and responsively with counterpart agencies;
and made themselves fully available to visiting Bank teams and international consultants hired under the
project. A weakness was their relative lack of integration with the government and their functioning in
parallel with MOH vis-à-vis project activities; but given the complexity of the project and the importance
of demonstration effects for future efforts to scale-up reforms, it is difficult to imagine any alternative with
similar chances of success. The fact that a successor operation (Social Assistance Technical Assistance
Project: IBRD $7 million) is being implemented principally within line ministries is an encouraging
development. These points are discussed further in Section 8.

Project implementing units identified and promoted linkages across components, e.g. linkages between the
financing, primary care and public health components vis-à-vis prevention between the accreditation and
financing components vis-à-vis incentives for accreditation.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
This is rated satisfactory for both Entities, largely on account of the exceptional performance of project
implementation units and of counterparts at the local government level in pilot areas.


8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Supervision matters, especially in the first few years of a reform-intensive operation
The Bank's supervision team deserves considerable credit for this Project's success. The intensity and
quality of supervision is only partially reflected in mission aide mémoires, PSRs etc.; a more telling point is
the extent to which counterparts cite repeated instances where the Bank team provided guidance, resolved
conflicts and `held hands' during project implementation, both in FBiH and RS, and the level of personal
and professional respect for members of the supervision team. That this was achieved under a standard
supervision budget is hard to believe--the real level of effort was much higher and was achieved through a
combination of unfunded effort and internal cross-subsidies from other tasks.              Neither of these is
sustainable nor necessarily replicable by other teams: as such, similar outcomes could only be expected
from other projects if supervision budgets were to be increased, especially in the first 1-2 years of
implementation. To conclude that the kind of supervision achieved in this Project would ordinarily be
possible under a standard supervision budget would almost certainly be in error.

8.2 Technical guidance is an important part of project preparation
Counterparts repeatedly referred to the lack of guidance on implementation at the time of Credit
effectiveness as the main reason why project activities were delayed by a year. This may overstate the
case. Even if a technical annex to the PAD had been prepared prior to effectiveness (with terms of
reference, bidding documents, time-lines etc.), at least 3-6 months would have been required for these to be
negotiated with counterparts, especially in the Bosnia of 1999 where ethnic tensions remained high. Even


                                                        - 10 -

so, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that more support should have been provided during preparation,
especially since BHP was substantially more complex than previous Bank-financed health projects in BiH
and experience with a TA- and reform-intensive project was lacking.             If Board deadlines are made
tight--as was the case for BHP, according to members of the preparation team--compromises in project
preparation will have flow-on effects for implementation that continue for years. This is axiomatic but is
mentioned here in view of its impact on BHP implementation and its recurrence as a theme in ICR
consultations.

8.3 Success vs. sustainability in implementation arrangements
The Project's success was due in large part to the strength of implementing units in both Entities. These
were staffed with top-notch professionals and paid substantially more than public sector wages. They were
given considerable autonomy by supervising ministries and by the Bank team in both project
implementation and policy dialogue. This raises legitimate questions about sustainability. The level of
skills transfer to the core public sector was modest, and many activities were carried out by implementing
units without the direct involvement of their public sector colleagues. That said, activities were clearly
carried out with plenty of consultation--the exceptional and consistent support of the government for
Project activities attests to this, especially given the complexity of these activities--and in a post-conflict,
resource-constrained environment with many other pressing issues, it is hard to imagine government staff
having given the Project the same level of attention and effort as the implementing units were able to do.
This Report concludes that the approach taken in BHP was appropriate given the context and the need to
create a demonstration effect. By using strong implementing units and a focus on consultation, the Project
succeeded in both meeting its objectives and receiving the full support of government while doing so; and
these in turn laid a strong foundation for future scale-up efforts, both in terms of a powerful demonstration
effect (a function of strong project implementation) and of government buy-in to the reform process (a
function of consultation). Future operations should integrate implementation progressively further into the
core public sector--as the current Social Assistance Technical Assistance Project aims to do--and will
continue to require higher-than-average supervision intensity by the Bank.

8.4 Change management, public relations and communications are critical
As reported by OED in a recent review of Bank-financed health reform efforts in ECA, health reform is a
political process that requires considerable attention to political economy issues and marketing of reforms
to lawmakers, the medical community and the public. This is even more true in decentralized regimes,
where the number of stakeholders is larger than usual, and in first attempts at health reform. All these
conditions existed in Bosnia in 1999, especially in FBiH, and the Project under-estimated the amount of
support that would be required for change management, public relations and communications to support its
activities--even in just the pilot areas. The collapse of the first attempted pilot in RS is one example
(though the subsequent efforts of MOH and PCU were a case study of good practice in public relations and
crisis management); another is the sustained resistance faced by the PMU in FBiH from recalcitrant HIF
directors, including some in pilot areas, who might have benefited from more intensive communication and
involvement early in the Project. In practice, however, the Bank team and implementing units in both RS
and FBiH compensated personally for these shortcomings, e.g. through ad hoc opinion surveys and PR
activities carried out in response to emerging experience with project implementation.             Supervision
missions were evenly divided between overseeing implementation activities and consulting with
stakeholders, while PMU and PCU staff spent weeks in the field, meeting and negotiating with stakeholders
at all levels. This kind of personal involvement will not be possible in scale-up efforts, so future operations
should make ample allowance for professional change management, public relations and communications
activities, preferably through a combination of external advice and capacity-building for government
institutions.




                                                      - 11 -

8.5 Pilot activities should not be focused exclusively on pilot sites
The purpose of large-scale pilot projects is not experimental: rather, it is to field-test fundamentally sound,
proven and agreed-upon reforms prior to their wider implementation in a given country, and to allow a
period of experience for tailoring reforms to the local context. Pilot activities should therefore be designed
and implemented with a view to scaling-up from the outset. Evidence of this approach in the current project is
mixed. The Project devoted significant resources to ensuring the success of pilot activities and was
exceptionally successful in doing so; and it made sure the basic gist of the reforms was shared and
consistent with the government's strategic direction, especially in the family medicine orientation of PHC
reforms; but in some respects, e.g. the Project's efforts in financing reform, accreditation and quality
assurance, the lack of attention to non-pilot areas has left scale-up efforts vulnerable to opposition,
especially in FBiH with its Cantonal structure but also to a lesser extent in RS. The unfinished agenda of
institutional and legislative issues also poses risks for the proposed scale-up (see Section 6.1 above):
though to be fair, some of these issues (e.g. new planning standards for PHC) could not have been
successfully implemented without the benefit of a demonstration effect in advance while others may not
have been evident at the Project's outset.

8.6 Lost opportunities for monitoring and evaluation
Perhaps the biggest disappointment in BHP was the lack of attention to formal monitoring and evaluation
beyond a managerial approach. The Project was designed in a way that provided rare scope for an
analytically rigorous, quasi-experimental approach to measuring the impact and cost-effectiveness of
family medicine reforms in a quantitative way. Pilot regions could have been matched to non-pilot regions,
and panel surveys could have been carried out to evaluate the Project's impact on access, equity and
utilization, among other things. No comparable research exists--largely on account of the rarity of
opportunities for prospective evaluation such as the one that existed with this Project--and with family
medicine reforms spreading rapidly throughout the region, this represents a major missed opportunity. A
retrospective case-control assessment could be carried out urgently. This would not only benefit scale-up
efforts but also provide important lessons for other countries contemplating similar reforms.

8.7 Capacity-building and links to sustainability
The Project financed a range of highly successful TA contracts for capacity building in public health,
accreditation and quality assurance, and health financing.            The use of relatively large, multi-year
single-institution contracts was a sensible strategy for a new borrower with complex TA requirements and
limited capacity to manage multiple consultants or contracts.                      It helped generate strong
medium-relationships between consulting firms and counterparts and gave the firms a higher stake in the
Project's eventual success beyond simply providing focused, task-specific TA. In several cases these
relationships continued beyond the contracts themselves: for example the ongoing relationship between the
Finnish Institute of Public Health and the FBiH PHI and between Imperial College and the FBiH Center for
Health Management.

The effectiveness of these efforts is only called into question by the fragility of linkages between the
agencies that received support and the broader health system context. Efforts to support public health
institutes in both Entities illustrate this point. In both Entities capacity building efforts were executed well.
In FBiH the consultants took a more modern, hands-on approach to building capacity through action-
learning and a focus on public health functions; in RS the consultants adopted a more conventional
approach; but in both cases the technical support provided was excellent and outputs in both Entities were
the same viz. surveys, strategies, and so on. The innovative approach taken by the Finnish consultants in
FBiH led to greater `cultural change' in that IPH. In spite of this, the practical impact of capacity-building
efforts seems to have been greater in RS, where greater efforts were made to `nest' the IPH's
newly-developed capacities in a health system context by linking them to the HIF's desire to monitor



                                                       - 12 -

preventive care; by contrast, proposed organizational reforms for the PHI in FBiH--which were to have
complemented the capacity building efforts undertaken by the Project--have been stalled by a
change-averse administration and now appear unlikely to move forward.

8.8 Provider training and quality assurance without CME?
The Project invested heavily in re-training existing PHC providers and helping establish a post-graduate
specialization program in family medicine. It also supported the development of clinical practice guidelines
by quality assurance agencies. These activities provide a strong foundation for developing Continuing
Medical Education (CME) as a further step in quality enhancement efforts. This could be addressed as
part of the proposed Health Scale Up Project. This would set in motion a permanent process of developing
and maintaining the clinical skills of PHC providers and would improve the sustainability of quality
improvement activities started in BHP.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contributions to the ICR are in Annex 8, one each for FBiH and RS.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Funds from the Italian Government were pooled with those of the Credit.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The Project collaborated closely with CIDA-financed efforts to develop a post-graduate specialization
program in family medicine in medical universities in FBiH and RS. It also worked with CIDA in the
development of a one-year Program for Additional Training (PAT) and the development of family medicine
standards and guidelines. The level of collaboration between the Bank and the CIDA contractor (Queens
University) was exceptional and led to mutually favorable correspondence between the President of CIDA
and Country Director for BiH (see letters dated February 22 and March 9, 2001) and between Mr.
Wolfensohn and Canada's Minister for International Cooperation (see letters dated October 23, 2001 and
January 9, 2002). The Project collaborated with Project Hope under Swiss Financing to implement
retraining through the Program for Additional Training using the same curricula developed by BHP.
Financial support provided through Italian and Japanese Grants for implementation appears was utilized
effectively.


10. Additional Information

In 2004 the FBiH MOH commissioned a communications agency to prepare a video about the
implementation of the project in the Federation. This was made available to cantonal health institutions
and was shown several times on television to promote better understanding of family medicine. The BBC
also produced a short documentary of the experience with family medicine in both Entities, which was aired
in the BBC's Earth Report in August, 2004. Family medicine reforms in BiH are a case study in a
forthcoming ESW that reviews experience with implementing family medicine-type reforms in ECA
countries. The results of the study are to be presented at the ECA-MENA Health Conference (formerly
PCU conference) in September, 2004 and at a workshop in BiH in November 2004, where the findings of
this ICR will be shared among government and non government stakeholders and where health providers
from the pilot cantons/regions will be invited to share their experience with FM with other cantons/regions.




                                                    - 13 -

In 2004 the Federal Solidarity Fund in FBiH allocated KM 2 million for preventive services: a marked
departure from its previous practice of funding curative services only. Services to be funded include
immunization, HIV/AIDS prevention, dental health and screening for breast cancer and iodine deficiency.
No direct links with PHC are envisaged in the immediate term: the main purpose seems to be to ensure an
Entity-wide focus on key preventive services and to help equalize prevention funding across Cantons. The
move also marks a conceptual shift from the common ex-Yugoslav practice of funding preventive services
from the budget and curative service from social insurance revenues. This should pave the way for better
integration at the service delivery level as well.




                                                   - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Establishment of primary health care system
in pilot areas based on cost-effective
interventions
Improvement of local and national capacity
for management of health sector
Reduction in lost of productivity due to
preventable illness, discbility and premature
deaths




Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of facilities rehabilitated and
equipped as planned.


Number of trained family medicene teams
trained
Number of health sector managers trained in
short courses (50 in RS and 100 in
Federation)
Number of HI Fund staff trained in
development and administration of new
provider payment methods for primary care
% of family medicine teams operating under
capitation / or capitation hybrid payment
methods
Morbidity and Mortality data system upgraded
as planned.
NCD risk survey, and health services
utilization and needs survey completed
(technical working group meeting; survey
designe and execution; statitstical data
processing; report published)
Children and Youth survey completed
(protocol adapted; sample designed; training
completed; equipment aquired; database
designed; field operations; statitstical data
processing; report published)
Tobacco control strategy developed
(infrastructure and cooalition for support;
strategy developed; legislation addopted;
smoking cessetion programs; social
marketing study; survey on smoking policies
in institutions)
Promotion of public health activities through
PH Inovation Grant
Strategic and Business Plan developed for
Public Health Institute
Establishment of Accredtiation and Qualty
Assurance agency (legislation; staff training;
business and srategic plan developed;
agency established)

1End of project




                                                        - 15 -

- 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
FEDERATION OF BIH
Primary Health Care                                          6.70             4.50           66.39
Public Health & Disease Control                              1.50             0.90           60.33
Accreditation & Quality Assurance                            0.90             0.80           90.06
Project Management                                           0.70             1.70         247.86
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Primary Health Care                                          2.90             1.80           61.97
Public Health & Disease Control                              0.80             0.70           94.07
Accreditation & Quality Assurance                            0.50             0.30           59.38
Project Management                                           0.70             1.10         156.03

Total Baseline Cost                                         14.70           11.80
                        Total Project Costs                 14.70           11.80
                  Total Financing Required                  14.70           11.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              1.00         1.10          0.00         2.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.70)      (0.40)          (0.00)       (1.10)
2. Goods                          3.20              0.00         1.20          0.00         4.40
                                  (2.50)           (0.00)      (0.90)          (0.00)       (3.40)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         4.50          0.00         4.50
Technical Services                (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.40)          (0.00)       (3.40)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         2.20          0.00         2.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.10)          (0.00)       (1.10)
5. Grant                          0.00              0.00         0.30          0.00         0.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.20)
6. Recurrent Costs                0.00              0.00         0.30          0.90         1.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.30)          (0.50)       (0.80)
   Total                          3.20              1.00         9.60          0.90         14.70
                                  (2.50)           (0.70)      (6.30)          (0.50)      (10.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.90         1.00           0.00        1.90
                                  (0.00)          (0.60)       (0.40)         (0.00)       (1.00)


                                                - 17 -

   2. Goods                                3.00               0.00              1.20             0.00              4.20
                                          (2.30)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (3.30)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              4.70             0.00              4.70
   Technical Services                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.00)            (0.00)           (4.00)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              1.20             0.00              1.20
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.70)            (0.00)           (0.70)
   5. Grant                                0.00               0.00              0.40             0.00              0.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.30)
   6. Recurrent Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.50             0.80              1.30
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.50)           (0.80)
       Total                               3.00               0.90              9.00             0.80             13.70
                                          (2.30)             (0.60)            (6.70)            (0.50)           (10.10)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
FEDERATION OF BiH
Primary Health Care          4400.00       300.00     2000.00      3918.00       269.00     261.00      89.0      89.7     13.1
Public Health & Disease      1100.00       200.00      200.00       879.00        0.00      26.00       79.9      0.0      13.0
Control
Accreditation & Quality       600.00       100.00      200.00       571.00        14.50     225.00      95.2      14.5    112.5
Assurance
Project Management            600.00       100.00        0.00      1323.00       320.00     92.00       220.5    320.0      0.0
TOTAL                        6700.00       700.00     2400.00      6691.00       604.00     604.00      99.9      86.3     25.2
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Primary Health Care          2082.40       133.90      705.90      1549.70        36.60     224.70      74.4      27.3     31.8
Public Health & Disease       540.90       12.30       206.70       523.30        83.60     107.90      96.7     679.7     52.2
Control
Accreditation & Quality       162.90        6.90       329.40       295.20        0.60       0.60       181.2     8.7       0.2
Assurance
Project Management            539.10       163.90        0.00       904.10       192.50      0.30       167.7    117.4      0.0
TOTAL - RS                   3325.00       317.00     1242.00      3272.00       313.30     333.50      98.4      98.8     26.9




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/14/1997                3    HEALTH SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              02/09/1998                4    HEALTH SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              04/20/1998                1    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              06/19/1998                2    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              07/01/1998                1    HEALTH SPECIALIST, TTL (1)
              09/21/1998                1    HEALTH SPECIALIST, TTL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/17/1999                9    HEALTH SPECIALIST,
                                             TTL (1), OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1), LOCAL
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                             MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             ADVISOR (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              03/22/1999                8    HEALTH SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); LOCAL HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR. LEGAL
                                             COUNSEL (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION ADVISOR
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1)

 Supervision

              04/27/2000                6    HEALTH SPECIALIST, TTL           S               S
                                             (1); HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             FINACE SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (2)



                                              - 20 -

               09/29/2000              6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER               S    S
                                            (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            HEALTH FINANCE SPECLT.
                                            (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1); FIN. MANAG.
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               03/02/2000              6    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYSIS (1);
                                            FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               07/29/2002              9    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER               S    S
                                            (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                            (1); SR. FMS (1);
                                            CONSULTANT- (1);
                                            CONSULTANT-SOC. SCIENT
                                            (1); CONSULTANT-IT
                                            SPECIALI (2)
               02/25/2003              5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER               S    S
                                            (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                            (1);
                                            SR.FIN.MGMT.SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               10/14/2003              3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               04/24/2004              7    TEAM LEADER (1); PHC              S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
                                            HEALTH SPECIALI (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FIN. MANAGEMENT SPC.
                                            (1)

 ICR
               04/24/2004             1     HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)            HS    HS



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               11                          19.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    21                          37.5
  Supervision                            140                         252.2
  ICR                                       4                           9.1
  Total                                  176                         318.3

                                            - 21 -

- 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

Annex 8A. FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA


                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                             Federation of
                                       Bosnia and Herzegovina

                                    BASIC HEALTH PROJECT

I.    INTRODUCTION

         The proposed Project was the third in a planned series of three operations in support of the
         Government's health sector recovery and development program. BHP was concerned with
         developing a cost-effective primary health care system. It was not intended to be the vehicle for
         resolving issues of revenue generation and public finance.
         The project was to help in the areas of primary health care and public health, priority
         components of the larger Entity programs.

         Primary health care was focused on the most essential health services at the level of the
         individual and the family.

         The Project was designed to: improve health and reduce human suffering by reducing
         epidemiological risks of avoidable illnesses and premature deaths and strengthen management
         capacity for a more cost-effective health system. The post-war reconstruction and development
         programs in both Entities, which are supported by the Bank, emphasize the development of a
         Basic Health Program.

II.   BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY

         The Bank's assistance strategy parallels and supports the Government's efforts in the health
         sector reform. In collaboration with other donors, World Bank administered other country's
         donations in the form of grants to support the Basic Health Project.

III.  PROJECT

         Project objectives

         The Project objective was to support the development of a viable basic health system of
         primary health care, public health and disease control.
         More specifically, the project was designed to support the following:

(a)   development of a primary health care system based on cost-effective interventions;
(b)   reduction of lost productivity due to preventable illness, disabilities and premature deaths; and
(c)   improvement of national capacity for managing the health sector.




                                                 - 26 -

           Project components

   The project was structured in four components:

1.     Primary health care
2.     Public health and disease control
3.     Accreditation and quality assurance
4.     Project management



IV.    PROJECT FINANCING

   The Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and International Association (IDA) was
   signed on June 3, 1999. The Date of Effectiveness was September 1, 1999 and the original project
   closing date was August 31, 2002. The Project had three extensions: the first extension was to August
   31, 2003; the second to February 28, 2004 and third to June 30, 2004.

   Sources of Funds

                 IDA           ITALIAN       DUTCH      GOVERNMENT            TOTAL
                 CREDIT        GRANT         GRANT                            US$
   Total         6,7           0,46          0,162      0,7                   8,022
  Actual
   Difference
   XDR/US$




   Achievement by Objectives

   The implementation of the BHP supported major health reform issues, such as:
   Outputs by components: the development of a new family medicine concept, public health and diseases
   control, and accreditation and quality assurance.



   Outputs by components:

   1. Primary Health Care

   The objective was to establish a sustainable health care system based on cost-effective interventions.
   The project was implemented in the three cantons: Tuzla. Herzegovina-Neretva and West-Herzegovina.


   Primary health care sub-components:

   1.1 Development of Family Medicine

   The objective of this sub-component was to establish family medicine aimed at providing a
   comprehensive, sustainable and coordinated health care leading to the development of an efficient and



                                                  - 27 -

cost-effective health care system, reduction of diseases, development of health promotion and disease
prevention and improving environment health through training of professionals and involvement of
public.

The three Family Medicine Cathedras with teaching centers to carry out the residency-training program
have been established at Medical Faculties in Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar. The residency training
program has started in 1999. The re-training program for the existing physicians and nurses was
developed to speed up the health centers restructuring process.
The objectives of this sub-component have been accomplished through the following activities:

a) Support to teaching center development

The teaching centers have been established in health centers Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar. The satellite
centers have been established in Zenica, Tuzla, Ljubuski and Bihac.

In collaboration with Queen's University Family Medicine Department, literature, teaching models and
computers were procured for the teaching centers.

Medical and office equipment was procured for 11 family medicine teams in the three teaching centers
in Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar and for 15 teams in the satellite centers in Ljubuski, Bihac, Zenica,
Tuzla.

b) Program for additional training (PAT)

The consultants from Queen's University and local consultants, appointed by the Federation Ministry of
Health, developed a program for additional training of physicians and nurses. The PMU and the PCU
together have developed the same program for additional training to be implemented in both entities.
Upon the completion of PAT, physicians earned credit for two-years specialization program.

c) Training of family medicine physicians and nurses (Family Medicine Teams)

Family medicine residency training program has started in 1999. One hundred and twenty six (126)
family medicine specialists have participated in the program so far. The capacity of Family medicine
Cathedra is about 50 residents per an academic year. In order to meet increasing number of applicants
the decision has been made to develop a program for additional training (on-the-job training) for
physicians and nurses to speed up restructuring of health centers based on a new family medicine
model.
Training of physicians and nurses was carried out by local and external trainers from Queen's
University in collaboration with the Family Medicine Cathedras in Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar.
Training for local trainers was done in parallel and Queen's University trainers acted as mentors.
Family medicine nurses were trained through the George Brown training program to deliver training to
family medicine nurses.
A one-year on-the-job training for family medicine team started in September 2002 and was completed
in June 2003. The first generation included one hundred and twenty three (123) physicians and nurses
in the three cantons. In the second project phase, training was carried out for one hundred and forty
seven (147) physicians and nurses. During the training program the participants were informed about
the registration of patients and a new method of work in family medicine setting.

d) Conferences and study tours


                                               - 28 -

The BiH Family Medicine Association was awarded membership of the European Family Medicine
Association WONCA EUROPE in June 2003. Physicians and nurses involved in both the residency
program and the program for additional training attended WONCA conferences held in London 2002,
Ljubljana 2003 and Amsterdam 2004 and made nineteen presentations to share their experience with
the introduction of the family medicine model. The representative of Family Medicine Cathedra Tuzla
participated in the European Academy of Teachers on Family Medicine Practice in Portugal. Family
medicine nurses participated in the nurse association conference held in Serbia. Local trainers trained to
work at the Family Medicine Cathedra visited Canada and participated in an additional workshop ­
Teaching and learning methods.

The standards have been developed for family medicine ambulantas, including Job Descriptions for
family medicine teams. The document was submitted to the Federation Ministry of Health to be
published in the Federation BiH Official Gazette.

e) Media campaign and survey on satisfaction of physicians, nurses and patients

A media campaign was carried out to promote a new family medicine concept and the results
accomplished in the implementation of family medicine. It included TV and radio broadcasts,
newspaper articles, brochures and reports. Also, a survey was carried out to measure satisfaction of
physicians, nurses and patients with a new family medicine model.

1.2 Infrastructure and equipment

The objective of this sub-component was to rehabilitate health center facilities and provide medical and
office equipment for family medicine ambulantas.

Civil works and medical equipment were procured prior to the start of the training programs to ensure
conditions for an appropriate on-the-job training. Fifty-five (55) FM ambulantas with one hundred and
seven (107) teams have been established in twenty-two (22) health centers in the three cantons. The
three health centers (Kladanj, Grude, Stolac) have been fully restructured on a family medicine model.
Civil works were completed and all family medicine ambulantas are functional.

Medical and office equipment was procured for thirty six (36) FM ambulantas with sixty seven (67)
teams in Tuzla canton; nine (9) FM ambulantas with eighteen (18) teams in Herzegovina-Neretva
canton and ten (10) ambulantas with twenty two (22) teams in West Herzegovina Canton.

1.3 Management Training and Capacity Building

The objective of this sub-component was to resolve the inadequacies of health management and to
develop health management trainings programs and professionalize the management of health services.

a) Center for Health Management

The Center for Health Management was established within the Federation Public Health Institute. Civil
works for rehabilitation, teaching equipment and literature were provided for the Center. The
Federation Public Health Institute appointed the staff to work in the CHM. The staff will continue to
work in the Center after the BHP credit closing date. A full-time Centre's staff are getting assistance
by professors from the Medical Faculty, Mostar and Faculty of Economics, Sarajevo.


                                               - 29 -

The Medical Faculty in Mostar and the Federation Public Health Institute signed a contract for the
CHM to be a teaching base of the Medical Faculty of the University of Mostar.

b) Curriculum for master level degree program

The curriculum for the master level degree program and short-term courses for the existing managers
were developed. A contract between the Consortium Imperial College/Heidelberg University was signed
in January 2002.
All activities were implemented in close collaboration with the PCU. As a result of close collaboration
between the PCU and the PMU one curriculum was developed for Bosnia and Herzegovina.

c) Training of trainers (TOT)

The Consortium Imperial College/Heidelberg University carried out the TOT program, which included
six-block modules. The Federation Minister of Health selected the trainees. The training was carried
out in close collaboration with trainees from Republika Srpska.
The trained personnel assisted the professors with the short-term courses for the existing managers.

d) Training of the existing managers

Imperial College carried out the short-term training for the existing managers, which included six-block
modules. The trainees were directors from health centers, health insurance institutes and public health
institutes. In order to meet a growing interest from cantonal health insurance institutes and cantonal
ministries of health a two-block modules course in health economics and strategic planning was
organized. Seventy managers participated in the training. A four-block modules training for directors of
general hospitals, health insurance institutes and representatives of the FBiH Parliament House of
Representatives was carried out by Imperial College trainers.

In order to accomplish better implementation results, the two workshops with the participation of health
managers and World Bank representatives were held in the beginning of the project.

e) Development of Strategic and Business Plan for the Center for Health Management

The Strategic and Business Plan for the Center for Health Management was developed and approved
by the Federation Ministry of Health.

f) Study tours

A study tour to Imperial College, UK was organized in late April 2004 aimed at establishing future
collaboration between the Federation Public Health Institute, the Center for Health Management and
Imperial College.



1.4 Management and Performance Incentives

a) Implementation of payment mechanisms in family medicine

This sub-component supported development, refinement and pilot implementation of new systems for


                                                - 30 -

remuneration of primary health care physicians, including weighted capitation and support for
appropriate referral of patients between all levels of the health system. It also supported training of
health insurance institutes professionals.

Key project outputs:

·   New contracts were signed between health insurance institutes and family medicine teams through
health centers.
·   Restructuring of health centers in specific municipalities has started to reflect a new family
medicine model.
·   Performance-related payment mechanisms for family medicine team members developed under the
project to be established officially by PMU, cantonal health insurance funds, and cantonal ministries of
health and HIF staff will be trained to implement a new payment scheme.

b) Design of basic benefits package

The objective was to recommend the options for the design of a basic benefits package of health care
services to the Federation Ministry of Health.

A document has been developed and submitted to the Steering Committee, appointed by the Federation
Minister of Health as a body authorized to approve the final draft of the document Design of the
Benefits Package of Health Care Services.

c) Development of information system for family medicine

An application software for family medicine was developed and installed in the pilot sites Kladanj and
Capljina cantons respectively.

Computer equipment was procured and installed in the pilot sites Kladanj (5 teams) and Capljina (3
teams).



2. Public Health and Disease Control

a) Institutional support

The objective of this component was to strengthen the institutional capacity of federal and cantonal
public health institutes. The implementing agency was the Federation Public Health Institute with
technical assistance from Helsinki Consulting Group Ltd., Finland.
TA addressed three elements (Capacity Building of Public Health Institute, Monitoring and
Surveillance System Improvement, Tobacco Control Strategy Development). The work was a
collaborative efforts by the Helsinki Consulting Group Ltd. and the Federation Public Health Institute.

Key outputs are:
·   Strategic and business plan for the Federation Public Health Institute
·   Report on activities and establishment of a library
·   Report on analysis of job posts and training plan for the Federation Public Health Institute
·   Report on analysis of the existing information system on mortality data and proposed improvement



                                                - 31 -

of IS
·    Report on survey on non-communicable diseases risk factors and health status, service utilization
and needs
·    Report on survey on school children behaviour
·    Tobacco control strategy

The implementation process was based on strong partnership between the technical assistance and the
staff of the Institute with an active participation of all public health institute staff. Through active
participation, the PHI staff was provided with on-the-job training and as a result the staff have been
involved actively in the development of all outputs.

A survey on health status, NCD risk factors, needs and utilization of services was carried out
successfully.   Experience and results obtained from this survey provide the platform for the
establishment of routine monitoring for major diseases/conditions and risk factors.

A survey on health behaviour of school children was carried out in sixty-five (65) schools (3200
children, 11,5; 13,5 years of age). This data set provides a unique opportunity to make further
explorative analysis and to target prevention programmes for specific segments of the school children
population.

The tobacco control strategy for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was developed and the
Government adopted the strategy.

In addition to technical assistance, the public health institutes have been provided with office
equipment, furniture, literature for the reference library and IT equipment with software.

English and IT training courses were implemented successfully for the Federation Public Health
Institute staff.

b) Public health innovation grants

The overall goal of this Sub-Component of the Public Health and Disease Control Component of the
Basic Health Project is to improve the health status of the population through the wider presence of
health promoting activities within the framework of the Health Reform Strategy and to strengthen
knowledge and implementation capacity within the public and private sector and in the community.
The objective was to support, through a competitive process, local initiatives and approaches to help
promotion and disease control. Emphasis was place don risk factors control, tobacco control,
prevention and control of hypertension, prevention and control of diabetes, adaptation and use of
clinical prevention guidelines, youth health, occupational health, tuberculosis prevention and control,
and HIV/AIDS prevention.

Six grants were awarded and implemented in 2001 and 2002:
1. Model of health education on the prevention of HIV/AIDS in schools ­ submitted by the Medical
Faculty Sarajevo, Center for Education and Postgraduate Training in Public Health.

2. Assessment and implementation of hypertension control and prevention management in primary
health care ­ submitted by Health Center (DZ) Travnik and Cantonal PHI of Middle Bosnia Canton;




                                                 - 32 -

3. New surveillance in the health and working environment of mineworkers ­ submitted by Health
center (DZ) Kakanj;

4. Monitoring risk factors ­ submitted by PHI for Una Sana Canton, Bihac;

5. Oral health promotion through mass media ­ submitted by Ass. Prof. Dr Sedin Kobaslija;

6. Prevention of diabetes mellitus in target group in family members ­ submitted by the Association
for Diabetes Mellitus member in Mostar and PHI Mostar.

All grants were implemented successfully and in line with the project proposals. The Federation Public
Health Institute carried out the evaluation of experience with implementation of public health
innovation grants.



3. Accreditation and Quality Assurance

The objective of this component was to support technical assistance, equipment and incremental
operating costs for planning and implementing the early stage of a quality improvement strategy in each
Entity. More specifically, the objective was to formulate a policy on health care quality, establish an
institution for quality improvement actions and develop regulations and a program for developing
accreditation standards and clinical practice guidelines.
The implementation was in two phases. The first project phase was preparation and establishment of
Agency for Accreditation and Quality Improvement.
The second phase was the support for early stage of implementation.

Key outputs of the first project phase:
·    Policy on health care quality and safety;
·    Law on establishment of healthcare quality and safety system within health organisations and
accreditation program;
·    Strategic and Business Plan of Agency;
·    Training plan and program for quality, health care quality improvement and safety;
·    Program for developing accreditation standards and clinical practice guidelines and development of
an action plan for producing, using and evaluating the use of clinical practice guidelines.

Key outputs of the second project phase:

·    Health care accreditation program;
·    A training program for quality and quality assurance;
·    A system for supporting quality improvements at the Entity and sub-Entity levels.

The institutional arrangements have been established for quality and safety as a first step of an
accreditation program. They include: organizational structure and quality and risk management.

a) Training of health professionals

Twenty five (25) workshops and seminars were organized for all levels of health professionals with a
variety of topics: Quality Management, Risk Management, Clinical Audit, Quality Coordinators



                                                - 33 -

Training, Internal and External Surveyors Training, Agency staff training, chambers and linkages with
the Agency, including self-regulation, health inspectors and their new role, data capturing for safety and
quality, performance indicators, etc.

b) Agency as a national resource center

Books and journals have been procured and web site was launched. We envisage to expand the role of
Agency to be a clearing house for sharing organisational and professional standards, clinical practice
guidelines as well as good practices, examples of quality improvement activities, data collected
routinely during the accreditation process, numerical indicators of clinical and organisational
performance within the Federation BiH.



Project Management

Project Management Unit - Basic Health Project was established under the provisions of Credit
Agreement signed between the State Bosnia and Herzegovina and World Bank, and Subsidiary Credit
Agreement signed between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which
integrated both projects: Essential Hospital Services and Basic Health Project. With justified three
extensions of project closing date, PMU completed successfully overall program and spent the Credit
proceeds in accordance with the Credit Agreement.

Financial Management

Implementation of financial management was without problems.

Sources of project funds: World Bank, Japanese Grant and Italian Grant.

In accordance with the PAD document, the Government provided counterpart funds in the amount of
US$ 700,00 (10% of the total credit funds). At the end of each fiscal year we submitted requests for
counterpart funds to the FBiH Government. Federation BiH Ministry for Finance provided total
Government counterpart funds.

Besides the Government counterpart funds, three pilot cantons provided contributions to civil works in
family medicine ambulantas.

The two persons, financial manager and accountant performed complete work. Both persons have
experience in financial management in the World Bank supported projects.

The Credit funds withdrawal and reconciliation were in XDR. Exchange rate loses were minor over the
project life, from the date of effectiveness through the project closing date. As a result, all planned
activities have been completed successfully.

Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PWHC) carried out an independent audit at the end of each fiscal year over
the last five years. No comments have been made so far on the financial management.

Office finance management software has been procured for project financial management in line with
the World Bank procedures.
According to World Bank criteria, the software (FINPRO) developed by the firm DCDM, Mauritius,


                                                - 34 -

  was procured as the lowest expensive and the most appropriate one. Unfortunately, in practise, the
  software was not appropriate to perform all required operations and the financial manager made the
  efforts to contact DCDM to improve the software. However, even after a number of DCDM
  interventions, the software remained inappropriate. As a result, additional efforts were made to develop
  Excell database.

  In spite of these problems, quarterly and annual Project Management Reports (PMR) were produced
  and submitted to WB financial specialist in a timely manner.

  The collaboration with the Disbursement Department staff in Washington was very good and we felt
  free to contact the Department for any problem and clarifications. However, delays were encountered
  regarding disbursements from special account and approvals for direct payment. Reason for this was
  that the Federation Ministry for Finance took a longer time than expected to send applications to World
  Bank.
  Regional disbursement office was opened in Zagreb in the last year, which considerably reduced
  application-processing time.
  World Bank Website is very updated and facilitates monitoring credit and grant accounts.

  The collaboration with the ING Bank in which the project has three special accounts (credit and grants)
  was very good. We encountered problems regarding signing of payment orders from special accounts
  due to waiting too long time for signing by the Federation Minister of Finance who together with the
  project director signs payment orders.

  No problems have been detected with local banks.



V.     SUSTAINABILITY

  The Basic Health Project implementation phase was completed. The sustainability of the project
  accomplishments is under a serious doubt unless further support is given by the Government and
  relevant health authorities. The project outputs (new FM model introduced in the three cantons,
  rehabilitated facilities, procured medical and office equipment, trained professionals, strengthened
  public health institutes, successfully implemented public health innovation grants, established Agency
  for health care quality and safety and accreditation) as a part of the health care reform are initial steps
  in the reform process. In order to make sure that the accomplishments gained under the project are
  sustainable the preconditions are:

  1. A clear health care policy in terms of continuation of health sector reform process with an
  assumption that the FM concept is an essential part of the overall health care system and introduced
  countrywide based on considerations of efficiency and cost-effectiveness.

  2. The continuation of the health care reform process requires a comprehensive and strategic approach
  taking into consideration further building upon the accomplishments of the BHP.

  3. Continue strengthening of local implementation capacity and utilization of experience gained under
  the BHP.

  4. Positive country economy progress and macroeconomic growth.




                                                  - 35 -

   5. Strengthening leadership role of health authorities and promoting institutional ownership of project
   outputs.

VI.    LESSONS LEARNED


   All the activities envisaged under the Basic Health Project relate to the key elements of the health care
   system reform. A successful change management in the reform process requires an appropriate
   respecting of local circumstances, which significantly affects successful accomplishments of envisaged
   objectives. A special attention should be paid to the following change management elements: context,
   process, stakeholders and reform content. Although context and reform process seem to be important,
   participants in the reform process are very often key determinant in a policy change. The stakeholders
   that affect reform content, context and process are: ministries of health (federal and cantonal), health
   insurance institutes, public health institutes, hospitals and health centers, patients and their
   associations, directors of health institutions, physicians and their associations (Trade Unions,
   Chambers).

   Given the key interests of the reform stakeholders, the BHP has created an environment for partnership
   with all stakeholders involved in the project implementation, which subsequently led to raising
   awareness of ownership for key project outputs. Also, the BHP strengthened the leadership of key
   stakeholders oriented to reform changes, which should not be underestimated.

   The World Bank Team played an important role in coordination of activities and sharing useful
   information among project implementing units in Banja Luka and Sarajevo. A very fruitful
   collaboration between PMU and PCU resulted in joint implementation of some project components.
   The PMU was continuously improving multidisciplinary teamwork over the project life. The links with
   key decision makers have been strengthened on both federal and cantonal levels through a good
   collaboration with ministries of health, health insurance institutes and public health institutes.

   A special emphasis should be given to the on-job learning process in all project activities, which
   resulted with very positive feedback by stakeholders involved in the project implementation.



VII.   MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION

   The project implementation start date was delayed because the Technical Annex had not been made
   during the project preparation and the Project Operation Manual had to be developed.

   Strategy and Policy of Health Care Reform was not adopted. As a result, it was very difficult to adjust
   the project objectives to be in line with the strategic directions. For example, neither role not position of
   a patronage nurse is clear.

   The project start was delayed in Herzegovina-Neretva Canton due to political problems related to the
   duplication in the mixed cantons (two health insurance funds).

   There is a lack of legislation, which covers public health issues, contracting mechanisms and the
   existence of the Center for Health Management.

   The Policy on Health Care Quality and Safety and Law on Health Care Quality, Safety and


                                                     - 36 -

    Accreditation have not been adopted yet due to long Parliament adoption procedure.

    The final draft Basic Benefits Package of Health Care Services was designed but still has not been
    adopted by the Government.

    PHRD funds have been provided in an advanced project phase, which required extension of the project
    closing date to effectively spend the funds.



VIII.    BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank performance

Bank performance during the project preparation is rated Highly Satisfactory.

Bank followed the Government activities in the creation of the Federation Health Program.
A Government working group was formed to work with the Bank's team for project preparation.
The Basic Health Project was designed together with the Government of the Federation Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the Government of Republika Srpska and the Bank team.
The Project's objectives were well defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). However, technical
annex and project operational manual were not prepared prior to the project start date, which caused delays
in the project implementation plan.

Bank performance during the project supervision is rated Highly Satisfactory.

The project was supervised by Bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters and in the Country
Office in Sarajevo. The Bank allocated considerable resources to assist with project implementation. Bank
staff were in constant contacts with the PMU and provided close support for many different aspects of
project implementation, including procurement and financial issues. Communications appear to have been
strong and open.
Bank reasources were well leveraged during supervision day-to-day issues were dealth with the BiH
Country Office, while periodic missions from Headquarters reviewed implementation progress and
addressed more sensitive implementation and project management issues and provided guidance/advice to
resolve various project issues for a successfull project implementation. The presence of a Bank Financial
Management Specialist over the past two years has been of a great assistance to PMU. The Disbursement
Office at the Bank also came in for praise by the implementation authorities for their prompt responses in
dealing with the project.
Bank staff coordinated well with other donors (Canadian CIDA, Governments of Italy and Japan) and the
project provided an opportunity for real coordination in a comprehensive way. Partnership and coordination
with Canadian CIDA was particularly effective and contributed largely to a successfull implementation of
the family medicine model.

It should be noted that initial problems encountered with project coordination were effectively resolved by
the merging of two PIUs, which resulted in acceleration of project implementation.

Overall Bank performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. Through this and other health projects the Bank
earned credibility as a development partner in the BiH health sector and was able to play an important role
in the discussion of other health reform issues.




                                                   - 37 -

Borrower performance

Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

The Federation Ministry of Health was highly supportive during the project preparation and
implementatiom phase. The ministry sraff were in day to day contacts with the PMU and coordinated all
project activities in a timely manner.

Cantonal health ministries and health insurance institutes demonstrated high commitment through provision
of local contributions for civil works, which were much higher than required under the Credit Agreement.

PMU performance is rated Satisfactory.

PMU focused on project implementation and coordination as well as financial management and
procurement of goods, works and services.

Financial management of the project was fully satisfactory and all funds have been disbursed. All
independent audit reports were unqualified.

The extensions of the Credit closing were mainly due to very complex activities and additional funding from
the PHRD grant (June 10, 2003), which became effecetive rather late during the project implementation.




                                                   - 38 -

Annex 8B. REPUBLIKA SPRSKA

REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT

  BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               FOR BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
                                   Banja Luka, August 8, 2004




I. PROJECT DATA

Responsible implementing agency: Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
                                   Project Coordination Unit


IDA 3202 BOS

     Credit      Signed   Effective    Original     Extension     Revised
                                     Closing Date   Approved    Closing Date Reallocation


        1          2          3            4            5            6            7
                                                     April 24,  February 28,
                                                      2002         2004
  IDA 3202 BOS   June 6, September 1, August 30,                             December 16,
                  1999      1999         2002      September 8,   June 30,      2002
                                                      2003         2004



TF 023688

     Grant        Signed     Effective     Original   Extension   Revised
                                         Closing Date Approved Closing Date  Reallocation


        1            2           3             4           5          6           7

    TF 023688   November10,November 10,   August 30,   April 24, August 31,
                   2000         2000         2002        2002       2003        None




TF 052112

     Grant       Signed  Effective    Original      Extension     Revised
                                     Closing Date   Approved    Closing Date Reallocation

        1          2         3            4            5             6             7

    TF 052112   April 21, April 21,  February 28,   October 6,    June 30,
                  2003     2003         2004         2003          2004          None




                                              - 39 -

II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

Project Objectives

     The Basic Health Project (BHP) was the third in a planned series of three operations in support of the
Government's health sector recovery and development program.               Its objective was to support the
development of a viable Basic Health System of primary health care, public health and disease control.

     More specifically, the Project supported the following:

(a)      Development of a primary health care system based on cost-effective interventions;
(b)      Reduction of lost productivity due to preventable illnesses, disabilities and premature deaths; and
(c)      Improvement of national capacity for managing the health sector.

     The achievement of these objectives was addressed through:

(a)      Training and deployment of family doctors and nurses;
(b)      Development of an environment that is supportive of family medicine practices;
(c)      Incentives and innovative techniques to increase the productivity of primary health care managers,
family doctors and nurses;
(d)      Rehabilitation and equipping of primary care facilities;
(e)      Development of regulations, institutions and competencies for accreditation and quality
improvement; and
(f)      Policies and interventions for the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases.



Project Components

         The BHP was structured into four components:

Component 1: Primary Health Care

     The Component aimed to establish a framework for primary health care within a global referral system,
with the following attributes:

·        Family doctor as the gatekeeper or point of first contact with the health care system;
·        Longitudinal care and continuity of care;
·        Comprehensiveness of care; and
·        Coordination of care

     In order to develop and test the full range of activities the Project concentrated on selected pilot sites,
rather than try to cover the entire Entity. RS MOH selected four pilot sites (municipalities) where most of
activities under the first component were implemented. Selected pilot sites were: Laktasi, Banja Luka,
Doboj and Celinac. Celinac was not initially a pilot site, but at the municipality's request, it became a pilot
site.

     The Primary Health Care component was further divided into four sub-components:

Sub-Component 1.1. Development of Family Medicine




                                                     - 40 -

         Activities supported under this Sub-component were the following: technical assistance for
implementation of FM model in selected pilot sites; technical assistance for curriculum development for the
FM re-training program for doctors and nurses of FM teams; technical assistance for the development of a
marketing campaign; training on change management and workshops. The activity related to the
development of a marketing campaign was not supposed to be supported under the Project. However,
during implementation, it became evident that this activity was crucial to inform the population and
providers about the FM reforms and agreement was reached with the Bank for inclusion of this activity.

Sub-Component 1.2. Infrastructure and Equipment

         Activities supported under this Sub-component were the following: limited civil works for FM
ambulantas, FM Cathedra, the Health Management Institute (HMI), and the Agency for Accreditation and
Quality Improvement (AAQI); supply of standard medical and office equipment for FM teams including
FM Cathedra; supply of office equipment, books and materials for PHI, the HMI and the AAQI.

Sub-Component 1.3. Management Training and Capacity Building

         Activities supported under this Sub-component were the following: establishment of the HMI;
institutional support for curriculum development and training of faculty for short-term management
training programs and a Masters Degree program in health services management; and the actual delivery of
an in-service short course program in health management for current primary health care managers.

Sub-Component 1.4. Management and Performance Incentives

         Activities supported under this Sub-component were the following: development of a payment
formula combining capitation with incentives for appropriate prescription and referral; development of
contracts for FM teams with incorporated quality standards; workshops and an information campaign for
family medicine staff to explain the changes; and development of a software application for FM teams.
The latter activity was not initially planned under the project. However, agreement on the need for the
software was identified and supported under the project.        The software application development has
enabled increase of efficiency and quality of FM teams providing health services (having all administrative,
medical as well as financial tasks bundled into one application).



Component 2: Public Health and Disease Control

         The Component aimed to support capacity building, planning and implementation of interventions
for the prevention and control of diseases with significant impact on the burden of disease.

         The Public Health and Disease Control Component was divided into two sub-components:

Sub-Component 2.1. Institutional Support

         Activities supported under this Sub-component were the following: strategic and business planning
for the Public Health Institute (PHI); technical and management training in the PHI; surveillance and
monitoring system (mortality data, NCD risk factor survey, children and youth survey); evaluation of
health promotion projects financed under sub-component 2.2.; and development of a tobacco control
strategy.




                                                    - 41 -

Sub-Component 2.2. Public Health Innovation Grants

        Activities supported under this Sub-component were the following: financing of twelve health
promotion projects through a competitive process. Emphasis was placed on youth health risks,
anti-smoking campaign, drug addiction, prevention of traffic injuries, tuberculosis prevention and control,
HIV/AIDS prevention and a health fair.



Component 3: Accreditation and Quality Assurance

        The Component aimed to support the early stage of strategic planning and program development
for quality improvement in the health care system of Republika Srpska. Through a two-phased process, this
component supported specifically, the following:           formulation of a policy on health care quality;
establishment of the Agency for Accreditation and Quality Improvement; regulations, and a program for
developing accreditation standards and clinical practice guidelines in the first phase; development of quality
standards and clinical guidelines for PHC/FM; training programs for quality and quality assurance;
piloting of the accreditation system; development of a health care accreditation program; and a system for
supporting quality improvement at the Entity level in the RS in the second phase.

Component 4: Project Management

        The Component supported limited civil works, office equipment, cars, staff salaries, staff training
as well as incremental recurrent costs of the PCU.



III. OUTPUTS BY PROJECT COMPONENTS


Component 1: Primary Health Care

    The Component had the objective to establish a cost effective primary health care system based on the
family medicine model in selected pilot sites. In all four pilot sites, the model of family medicine has been
established with the following principles:

·       Family doctor as the gatekeeper or point of first contact with the health care system: To ensure
accessibility of patients to the health care system, a citizen's registration process and freedom to choose a
family doctor of their choice was introduced. RS MOH defined in its Strategic Plan for the Reform and
Reconstruction of the Health Care System, that in principle, the whole family will be registered with one
family doctor. In practice, this principle is respected in almost every individual case.

·       Longitudinal care and continuity of care: This essential feature of family medicine has been
established through the introduction of a patient appointment system. This system provides access,
availability and development of personal relationships between family doctors and their patients.

·       Comprehensiveness of care: The family doctor, with proper education (obtained through either the
specialization program or the Program for Additional Training - PAT) and appropriate standard equipment
is now able to manage different health problems and can provide a broad range of services, regardless of
patients' age, sex or health problem type. This includes not only the traditional spectrum of curative,



                                                      - 42 -

rehabilitative and counseling services, but also the introduction of disease prevention, health promotion,
and educational services, which had been neglected in the past. Through the implementation of the Program
for Prevention and Control of Non-Communicable Diseases, adopted by RS MOH, and using Guidelines
for Detection and Reduction of Risks Factors and Early Detection of Non-Communicable Diseases
developed by the IPH, family doctors now are able to provide a broad spectrum of prevention services to
the population they serve.

·        Coordination of care: The use of problem-oriented medical records is essential to this activity.
During project implementation, the PCU team together with DZ's (DZ-Dom zdravlja means PHC center)
management, enforced the use of patients' medical records. This activity has been further strengthened by
the development of a FM software application. Among other functions, this software application will
produce accurate and reliable information related to every individual medical record. This information then
will be taken into account by family doctors when deciding the most effective current and future health care
needs of their patients. The second feature of a well- coordinated health care is the establishment of an
effective referral system of patients to specialists/hospitals. The RS family doctors by using the Rulebook
on Referral System in Health Care of Republika Srpska, adopted by the RS MOH, and using newly
introduced evidence-based clinical guidelines for 20 of the most common diseases and conditions at PHC
level, in the future will avoid duplication and unnecessary procedures at higher levels of health care. Initial
analysis of the family medicine teams' work done in DZ Laktasi (first DZ in RS where the model of family
medicine is functioning) is showing that in average, all parameters e.g. referral to hospitals and specialists'
services, use of lab tests, use of x-ray and ultrasound tests, level of prescriptions are drastically decreasing
in comparison to the average of referrals, use of tests and prescriptions in other DZs of Republika Srpska
where the model of family medicine is not established yet.

         Based on the outputs (described under each Component and Sub-components) and looking at the
monitoring indicators (separate document was sent to the World Bank), we can conclude that the project
development objective "development of a primary health care system based on cost-effective interventions"
is achieved.

Sub-Component 1.1. Development of Family Medicine

         Under this Sub-component the following outputs were produced:

(a) Implementation Strategy: A comprehensive and integrated implementation strategy for the
establishment of FM model in the selected pilot sites was developed by the PCU team in 2000. The
strategy stressed that all features of one DZ (mission, organization, management, business processes, etc.)
should be changed by applying a gradual, step-by-step approach. The graph below shows the elements of
the implementation strategy.




                                                     - 43 -

Graph 1. Implementation Strategy




                                                  Development
                                     Monitoring       of An
                                         and       Action Plan
                                     Supervision
                                                               Appraisal
                                                               of Initial
                           FM Teams                            Situation
                          Information
                            System


                                         Implementation
                                                                    DZ Internal
                        Standards/            Strategy              Regulation
                       Accreditation
                       of FM Teams



                                 Contracting/                 Marketing
                                Payment of FM                 Campaign
                                    Teams       Education of
                                                FM Teams/
                                                 Change
                                               Management




(b) Curriculum for Program of additional training (PAT): The curriculum was developed by Queens
University, supported by CIDA (Programs, specialization and PAT, have been supported by CIDA.
Queens University has been the implementing agency.). This is a 40-week intensive course of additional
training in FM principles and practice for primary care doctors and nurses. It consists of:

·        1 introductory conference for all participants
·        1 mid-term conference on change management issues
·        19 academic days (units)
·        1 day to visit an established FM Teaching Center or satellite
·        1 final evaluation day
·        A minimum of 50 hours of practical teaching in the teams' own ambulanta evenly distributed over
the training period.

    The curriculum is included in the Rulebook on Program of Additional Training, adopted by the RS
MOH in 2003. In September 2002, implementation of the PAT begun. RS will have 83 specialists of
family medicine and 85 family doctors who have completed the PAT. In total 168 FM doctors have been
trained or about 22.4% covered population in RS (22,4% is an estimate since last census in BiH was in
year 1991). In addition, around 100 doctors are now attending the residency (specialization) program and



                                                        - 44 -

154 nurses completed the PAT by the end of June 2004. If these trends continue and 70-80 doctors will
enter each year either of the two mentioned programs, then RS in the next 6-8 years will have enough
family doctors to cover the entire population.



     Table 1. Number of FM doctors in RS by June 30, 2004.

                                                                                Specialists to
                                        Graduated          PAT I    PAT II    graduate by June
                 DZ Name                 specialists      2002/03   2003/04        30, 2004
      Banja Luka                                     25         10         10
      Laktasi                                          0        15          5
      Doboj                                            6        15          2
      Celinac                                          3         0          4
      Other PHC centers                              15          6         18
      Sub-total                                      49         46         39                 34
      TOTAL                                                      168



(c) Marketing Campaign: The PCU team became aware of the fact that, due to budget constraints, it was
more efficient and cost-effective to divide the marketing campaign into two sequentially, but separate
phases: The first phase included research and analysis that gave both the PCU and the consulting agency a
better grasp on existing resistance and support points, and therefore a better overview of subsequent
necessary steps. The second phase consisted of a communication campaign, with set objectives: creating a
better understanding of proposed changes, gaining support for such changes, and increasing awareness of
the health system reform.

In the first phase of the marketing campaign, the following activities were carried out:

·        A public opinion poll related to family medicine introduction in RS. The objectives of the survey
were to: promote better understanding of both the local population and providers' attitudes and needs;
determine the level of responsiveness to the reform and supported successful transition (health care
providers in pilot sites); promote understanding of proposed changes and provide support in the
implementation (local population in pilot sites); increase awareness of the health system reform (RS general
population). The survey was done on a sample size of 2300 respondents, through the use of a face-to-face
interview method. The survey was conducted in Trebinje, Laktasi, Banja Luka and Zvornik in 2000 (the
report can be downloaded from the PCU web site);
·        Focus group discussions with doctors who were supposed to start with implementation of the
family medicine model. Focus group discussions were conducted in the same places as where the survey
had been conducted in 2000 (report on this can be downloaded from the PCU web site);
·        A TV documentary that presented systematically all the activities implemented as part of the
family medicine model in the pilot sites. This documentary was created in two versions, which reduced the
costs of production. First, the version in English helped present the first results of the implementation to
the World Bank in Washington and other donors. Second, the version in Serbian that was used to present
results to health care providers in Republika Srpska;
·        A communication program was designed based on the analysis of the researches;
·        A fully-designed pool of sponsors package.

         In the second phase of the marketing campaign, the following activities were undertaken:



                                                     - 45 -

·       Identity of overall campaign (visual, slogans, image);
·       Communication strategy;

·       Media plan presented in written form, which took into account resources available to conduct the
media campaign;
·       Radio and TV public stands. An hour of discussion with the general public through local radio and
TV broadcasting. This gave an opportunity to promote better understanding of proposed changes, to
explain the reasons why RS is changing the model of PHC and to promote basic principles of FM model
and benefits that RS population would gain through its implementation;
·       Continuous training of the reform presenters for the public stands (TV, radio, public speeches and
newspapers), as well as preparation of press releases;
·       One brochure with relevant information on FM principles (2000 copies were printed out);
·       Four leaflets with basic slogans on FM principles (each was printed out in 2000 copies);
·       One movie with real actors where basic principles of FM were presented;
·       Evaluation of the overall (both phases) marketing activities (effects/impact).

Sub-Component 1.2. Infrastructure and Equipment

Under this Sub-component the following outputs were produced:

(a) Civil works: In Dom zdravlja Banja Luka, an additional floor was built on the central building where
four FM ambulantas for PAT program were established as well as premises for the FM Cathedra. Also, in
DZ Banja Luka, 10 FM ambulantas were refurbished (some of them reconstructed). In Dom zdravlja
Celinac 5, FM ambulantas were refurbished. The AAQI' premises within PHI were refurbished. No civil
works were carried out in DZs Laktasi, Doboj and HMI, whose location is within DZ Laktasi.

(b) Supply of standard medical and office equipment for FM teams including FM Cathedra: 47 packages
of standard medical and office equipment were delivered to three DZs (28 to DZ Banja Luka, 13 to DZ
Laktasi and 6 to DZ Doboj). DZ Celinac was supplied with some medical equipment (e.g. aspirators,
glucometers, etc.) since PCU wanted to secure standardized level of equipment among all FM teams in pilot
sites. Years ago (before BHP implementation begun), WHO supplied DZ Celinac with medical equipment,
but a list of equipment was a bit different and it was not standardized. Each FM team was supplied with
one PC and a printer.

(c) Supply of office equipment and books to the Institute of Public Health, the Health Management
Institute and the Agency for Accreditation and Quality Improvement: Office equipment was delivered to
the three institutions, in accordance with technical specifications and layouts prepared by the PCU.
According to the lists prepared by the PCU, books were delivered to the above institutions. Small libraries
were established at the PHI', the IHM' and the AAQI' premises.

Sub-Component 1.3. Management Training and Capacity Building

Under this Sub-component the following outputs were produced:

(a) Establishment of Health Management Institute: The HMI was established as a legal body attached to
the Medical Faculty of the University of Banja Luka. In accordance with the Law on Sciences, the HMI
has a director, a council, as a managing board, and a Scientific council. The HMI Council adopted a



                                                   - 46 -

conceptual framework for the development of health management in RS, Statute, Strategic and Business
plans, etc.

(b) Curricula development for postgraduate program in health management: Three different curricula
were developed for: short-term in-service training courses, training of trainers program, and set of
postgraduate university accredited programs, these will include a Certificate, Diploma and Masters
programs. The curriculum for postgraduate programs is in the process of adoption at the Medical Faculty'
Scientific Council.

         The aim of the ToT program was to provide faculty members identified to develop and deliver the
Masters and diploma programs in health management, with an understanding of different teaching and
learning techniques and to develop their teaching skills. The ToT program was organized and delivered in
blocks between March and June 2003. Foreign TA delivered 6 blocks successfully with support from local
people, so-called module leaders/co-leaders. Eight lecturers (trainers) from RS completed the ToT
program.

(c) Delivery of in-service short course program in health management for current primary health care
managers: The aim of the short course program on Essential Topics for health Management in a
Changing Environment was to provide health managers with up-to-date knowledge and skills in those areas
of health management, which have been identified as priority areas in the training needs assessment carried
out in 2002. Those areas are: introduction to public health, health systems and health policy; introduction
to management with focus on strategic management; health economics, accounting and finance; managing
human resources; quality management, monitoring and evaluation; and managing provider organizations
and managing change. The short courses program was organized and delivered between September and
December 2003, and again foreign TA delivered the 6 blocks with support from local people. Twenty six
PHC managers from RS completed successfully this program.

         In addition, the PCU team designed, organized, and delivered change management courses in DZs
Trebinje, Laktasi, Banja Luka (doctors from DZ Celinac were also present). The aim of this course was to
provide guidance for the implementation of family medicine model and practical solutions for a smoother
transition from one model of organization to another. The course covered: legal framework for health
system reform; family medicine principles; annual planning of health services for the population the FM
teams serve; macro and micro management of FM teams; contracting and payment formulae; and quality
management. The Change management course was delivered once a year starting in the spring of 2001.
Around 60 doctors from DZs completed the course and for those who attended the course , MOH issued a
Certificate.

Sub-Component 1.4. Management and Performance Incentives

         Under this Sub-component the following outputs were produced:

(a) Development of a weighted capitation payment formula for FM doctors: The rates were calculated by
estimating separately the: utilization rates for each age/gender cell; unit cost per visit; and demographics.

Table 2. Weighted capitation formula




                                                      - 47 -

   Age group          Number of           Basic Capitation  Weighted              Total
                      patients per                          coefficient
                      team
   0 ­ 1                                             30,00                  2,73
   2 ­ 6                                             30,00                  2,02
   7 ­ 15                                            30,00                  0,94
   16 ­ 30                                           30,00                  0,99
   31 ­ 64                                           30,00                  1,66
   65 and higher                                     30,00                  2,56
   Total                                             30,00                  1,55



(b) Development of new contract for FM teams with incorporated quality standards: Key features of new
contracts for FM teams are: contract is based on weighted capitation formula; 30% of annual amount per
FM team is allocated for disease prevention and health promotion programs; each FM team is obliged to
prepare an annual work program in which focus is given to prevention and promotion programs; in order
for FM team to get the whole annual amount of money they are obliged to fulfill at least 80% of what they
presented in their work programs; PHI staff is monitoring implementation of prevention and promotion
programs; if the team is granted with an Accreditation Certificate, issued by AAQI, then the team, in terms
of money, will get 10% over their contracts as a bonus payment. The indicators for monitoring of contract
arrangements are: total number of services provided stratified by age, gender and prevention programs;
number of referrals to specialists stratified by age and gender; number of referrals for diagnostic services
stratified by age and gender; number of referrals for hospital care stratified by age and gender; and number
and value of prescribed medicines.

(c) Development of software application for FM teams: The software application will facilitate medical,
administrative and accounting work of FM teams. The basic division of the application can be made in
accordance with three primary functions that the application is designed to facilitate. The functions are as
follows: data entry, query and reporting. The application comprises several modules such as: Patient's
health chart; Patients scheduling/waiting room; Accounting module; Reporting module; and Constants of
application.



Component 2: Public Health and Disease Control

         This component had the objective of supporting capacity building of staff of the Public Health
Institute, in regard planning and implementation of interventions for the prevention and control of diseases
with significant impact on the burden of disease. Another objective was to involve and utilize the
knowledge and implementation capacity of the public sector in health related issues through
Sub-component Public Health Innovation Grants. Based on the outputs and monitoring indicators we can
conclude that these objectives were achieved.

Sub-Component 2.1. Institutional Support

Under this Sub-component the following outputs were produced:




                                                    - 48 -

(a) Strategic and Business Plans for the Institute of Public Health were developed with involvement of all
key PHI staff.

(b) Technical and management training for the PHI staff was provided in accordance with developed
training plan.

(c) The information system for mortality data was improved and surveys of risk factors for NCDs and
health status, needs and utilization of services were implemented and data analyzed. Based on the analyzed
data, the following strategies were developed: (i) Tobacco Control Strategy; (ii) Strategy for the reduction
of differences in health status and access to health care; (iii) Reorienting health care and reorganizing health
services; and (iv) Strategy and Program for prevention and control of NCDs. In addition, a children and
youth survey, including questions on lifestyle habits such as substance abuse, dietary and exercise habits,
peer relations and relations with parents, mental health, and self esteem related issues was conducted and
data analyzed.

(a)      A Tobacco Control Strategy for Republic Srpska has been prepared and approved by the
Government.
Implementation of the strategy has started with adoption of a set of Tobacco Control laws.

Sub-Component 2.2. Public Health Innovation Grants

Under this Sub-component the following outputs were produced:

(a) Twelve health promotion projects have been financed and successfully implemented. The following is
the list of projects: Action against smoking; Health fair; Youth health education; By lifestyle against AIDS;
Life without smoke; Campaign against TB; Education of youth on health risks; By lifestyle against AIDS
II; Youth health education II; Drug addiction is not a taboo; Prevention of traffic injuries; and Action
against smoking.

         Based on the above mentioned, we can state that the capacity of the PHI for provision of adequate
and reliable information for policy making has increased. Also, having in mind that MOH has developed
above-mentioned policies based on reliable data, we can conclude that conditions are created for sound
decision-making practice in the health system of Republika Srpska. This approach will definitely contribute
to reduction of lost productivity due to preventable illnesses, disabilities and premature deaths, which was
one of the project development objectives for the Basic Health Project. However, in this moment it is too
early to measure impact of public health interventions that are being implemented as part of
above-mentioned strategies and policies.



Component 3: Accreditation and Quality Assurance

         Objective of this component was to support the early stage of strategic planning and program
development for quality improvement. All activities were phased and all planned outputs were delivered.

Under this Component the following outputs were produced:

(a) A policy on health care quality was formulated and it is awaiting adoption by the Government.

(b) Agency for Accreditation and Quality Improvement is established and operational.


                                                     - 49 -

(c) Strategic and Business Plans for the Agency were developed and adopted.

(d) Accreditation standards and clinical practice guidelines are developed and tested during pilot
accreditation in Laktasi. After testing, standards and guidelines have been amended and officially accepted
by the Ministry of Health.

(b)      Implementation of a training program for quality and quality assurance was completed and 20
candidates have successfully completed training. A ToT program was developed and 12 candidates have
successfully completed the ToT.

(c)      Draft of national accreditation program was developed.

(d)      Accreditation for 15 family medicine teams in the Health Centre Laktasi was piloted. All 15 teams
fulfilled standard requirements and have been granted full or conditional accreditation. In addition the
website of the Agency www.aaqi.rs.ba has been developed and posted on the Internet. Accreditation
standards and clinical practice guidelines can be downloaded from the website, as well as accreditation
rules and accreditation application forms.

Based on the above mentioned, we can conclude that objectives for this component were achieved and that
solid ground for further development of quality improvement programs in health system of Republika
Srpska was provided. Also, it is important to mention that accreditation standards require family medicine
teams to use cost-effective interventions described in the clinical guidelines and program for prevention and
control of NCDs. In that way, these outputs contribute to the fulfillment of the project development
objective "development of a primary health care system based on cost-effective interventions".



IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

Initial failure in the implementation of family medicine model in the pilot site Trebinje (first pilot site
selected by RS MOH) had the greatest impact on overall implementation of the Basic Health Project. Due
to several reasons, the Project implementation failed in Trebinje: tremendous resistance against reform/the
Project from managing board of DZ Trebinje; lack of information among health care professionals;
resistance against reform from specialists; lack of formal (contractual) obligations between implementing
parties; legal non-compliance (DZ regulation weren't complied to the existing health laws); lack of internal
DZ regulation; inadequate DZ management (lack of capacity to manage the change); vested interests; and
anti-campaign. Detailed analysis of the situation was done by the PCU and findings/recommendations
were presented to MOH and the WB representatives. Final conclusion/agreement was to cancel project
implementation in Trebinje. It is very important to state that from the Trebinje experience, MOH and the
PCU drew and learned key lessons, which contributed to the successful implementation of the family
medicine model at the later stage of the Project implementation in other RS pilot sites.

It is important to mention that the PAD for the BHP was very comprehensive and provided solid ground for
development of detailed TORs for each component and sub-component, which further enabled smooth
implementation. Lack of implementation plans, however, as well as TORs at the beginning of project
implementation caused a delay in starting-up of project activities for almost one year.

Some of the activities were also delayed due to RS MOH unfamiliarity with procurement procedures and
lack of capacity to evaluate technical proposals in accordance with WB requirements. Those problems were


                                                    - 50 -

overcome and the Project implementation continued smoothly.

However, RS MOH provided systematic and continuous support/guidance to the PCU during Project
implementation. The perfect example for this statement is e.g. quick development and implementation of
strategies based on surveys data as well as from adoption of legislation enabling the establishment of the
Agency for Accreditation and Quality Improvement. Regarding Component 2 Public Health and Disease
Control, where the PHI of RS was the beneficiary institution, it is important to note that ownership of
project activities was very high with the PHI staff. Major reasons for that were close professional relations
between the consultants and PHI staff and full participatory approach in the implementation of project
activities. Lesser support was given by MOH to the establishment of the Health Management Institute and
its support can be observed more rather formal than supportive.

Some of the envisaged activities, e.g. improvement of information systems for morbidity data were not
implemented due to lack of financial resources. The Bank's team has played a major role in that sense,
providing timely and appropriate advice for meaningful preparation of TORs, which enabled successful
and timely completion of envisaged activities. Also, implementation and testing of new provider payment
mechanisms (weighted capitation) at PHC level were delayed until this year due to reluctance and
non-readiness in the HIF to change current models of provider payment.

As of June 1, 2000, the new PCU management team undertook responsibility for project implementation.
The new management team introduced team work and proactive approach, which enabled the PCU staff to
fully utilize their capacities. Also, the implementation capacity has been improved and the PCU has
utilized an integrated approach for implementing all project activities in selected pilot sites.



V. BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Borrower performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory. Particularly, MOH's
Strategy for Health Sector Reform and Reconstruction was extremely helpful for the design of the Project
and its components. Project preparation was supported by a PHRD and guidance from the WB.

The PCU's performance in the implementation of BHP could be divided into two phases. By mid 2000, the
PCU's performance could be rated as Modest. As of June 1, 2000, the new management team took
responsibility for project implementation and in a short period of time, the PCU achieved much better
results in overall project management. In this period of time (June 1, 2000 ­ June 30, 2004), the PCU's
performance could be rated as Highly Satisfactory. The PCU focused on project implementation as well as
on internal management issues like i.e. procurement, financial management, internal control,
communication, reporting, etc.



VI. BANK PERFORMANCE

Bank performance during project supervision could be rated as Highly Satisfactory. The project was
supervised by Bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters in Washington and in the Sarajevo
Resident Mission. During supervision missions, Bank staff thoroughly reviewed and carefully analyzed all
issues that appeared in the implementation of certain activities and provided advice for overcoming them.
Bank staff provided close support for many aspects of project implementation, including procurement and
financial issues. Bank staff coordinated well with other organizations and donors, especially with Italian,
Japanese and Canadian Government. Bank's leverage and involvement in Component 2 Public Health and


                                                    - 51 -

Disease Control was crucial for the achievement of outputs defined in the PAD.



VII. LESSONS LEARNED

Implementation strategy: It is crucial to have a well developed implementation strategy, using best
international experiences and practices, adapted to local circumstances, before project implementation
begins.

Achievement of political consensus: It is an ultimate condition that political consensus and commitment to
health care reform at central level as well as local levels are achieved at the highest possible level.

Contractual obligations: Obligations towards project implementation between the parties must be clearly
defined and signed through a Contract.

Strong leadership: Strong and creative leadership at the level of implementing agencies is one of the key
elements for the success of project implementation.

Adequate and strong management in pilot sites: This is, definitely, an essential characteristic of a
successful health care reform "story" that we learned during implementation of the Basic Health Project in
Republika Srpska. Laktasi Dom zdravlja is a perfect example for this statement.

Change management courses: As it was presented in Graph 1. "Implementation Strategy", change
management courses are vital for creation of a critical mass of health care reform supporters and better
understanding of health reform efforts.

Communication: It is of invaluable significance to promote the reform processes through marketing/media
campaign whereby health professionals and the general public can learn and benefit a lot.

VIII. CONCLUSION

The Basic Health Project had the aim of supporting the development of a viable health system with focus
on primary health care, public health and health management. The Project provided support for the initial
steps in implementation of health system reform in Republika Srpska. Based on the analysis of project
outputs/outcomes and achievements, the project has made major contributions to the development and
implementation of health system reform.
 The objectives as defined in the PAD were met and in some cases they exceeded expectations. However,
to ensure deeper accomplishments in specific areas, future operations should focus on a narrower set of
activities ensuring that both human and financial resources are consistent with the implementation strategy.




                                                      - 52 -

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


   Appraisal/Estimate and Actual (In US$'000 equivalent)


                                      Appraisal                              Percentage of
           Component                                         Actual            Appraisal
                                       Estimate

                                  Bank   Govt. CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.  Bank   Govt.  CoF.

Primary Health Care
                                 2,082.4  133.9 705.9 1,549.7  36.6 224.7 74.42   27.33 31.83


Public Health/Disease Control      540.9   12.3 206.7   523.3  83.6 107.9 96.75 679.67 52.20

Accreditation/Quality Assurance    162.9    6.9 329.4   295.2   0.6   0.6 181.22   8.70   1.82

Project Management                 539.1  163.9   0.0   904.1 192.5   0.3 167.71 117.45 30.00




                                               - 53 -

Annex 2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements


Appraisal Estimate (In US$ equivalent)




                                            - 54 -

                                                                                     Total Cost
     Category of                                                                     (including
    Expenditure                            Procurement Method                       contingencies)
                   ICB            NCB                        Other       N.B.F.


  Civil Works                     NCB                       MW

                                   157,434.85                  5,756.95                  163,191.80

  TF023688                          70,000.00                                             70,000.00

  Government                        17,492.76                    639.66                   25,909.42

                                     7,777.00

  Total                            252,706.61                  6,396.61                  259,103.22


  Goods            ICB                            IS           NS

                     569,197.59                 349,948.35    44,723.89                  963,869.83
  TF023688            29,340.54                   5,659.46                                35,000.00
  Total              598,538.13                 355,607.81    44,723.89                  998,869.83


3 3. Consultants'
     Services,
     Technical
     Assistance,
     Training and
     Audit            QCBS           CQ           SSS        Other
                     509,207.88    512,888.96    50,700.29   710,619.98               1,783,417.11
  TF023688           155,904.78                   7,478.56       316.67                  163,700.01
  TF052112            35,392.83                  29,407.17                                64,800.00
  Total              700,505.49    512,888.96    87,586.02   710,936.65               2,011,917.12


  Grant
                                                                         110,242.03
  Government                                                              81,420.57
  Total                                                                  191,662.60      191,662.60


  Recurrent
  Costs
  Total                                                                  457,643.21      457,643.21


  Total: RS                                                                           3,919,195.98



                 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements

       Actual (In US$ equivalent)




                                                      - 55 -

                                                 Procurement Methods
        Category of
        Expenditure                                                                                Total
                             IS        NS       NCB       LIB     ICB      SS        Other

1 1.Goods (Equipment
     and Materials)      355,607.81 44,723.89                 598,538.13                        998,869.83
   2. Civil Works                             252,706.61                            6,396.61    259,103.22
3 3. Consultants'
     Services, Technical
     Assistance,
     Training and Audit                                                 87,586.02 1,924,331.10 2,011,917.12
4. 4. Operating Costs
                                                                                  457,643.21   457,643.21
     Total
                                                                                              3,919,195.98




                                                   - 56 -

- 57 -

