Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
April 17, 2003 
 
H.E. Ljerka Maric 
Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH 
Trg Bih 1 
71000 Sarajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Implementation of the Basic Health Project 
 
Grant TF052112                                                                                 
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding two hundred twenty seven thousand United States dollars (US$227,000) (the Grant) to 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure. The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of  
 
Page  2
-
2
-
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK 
 
By /s/ Joseph Ingram 
Director 
Country Office Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Ljerka Maric 
Minister of Finance and Treasury 
Date: 4/22/2003 
 
Page  3
-
3
-
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient, through the Ministry of Health (MOH) 
of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) and the Ministry of Health and 
Social Welfare (MOHSW) of the Republika Srpska (RS), in the implementation of the Basic 
Health Project (the Project), which has as its main objective to support the development of a 
viable basic health system of primary health care, public health and disease control through: (i) 
the development of a primary health care system based on cost-effective interventions; (ii) the 
reduction of lost productivity due to preventable illnesses, disabilities and premature deaths; and 
(iii) the improvement of national capacity for managing the health sector. The components and 
the activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) Primary Health Care Component
Provision of: (i) technical assistance to: (a) build capacity of the management boards of the 
Center for Health Management in the Federation and RS, respectively; (b) conduct a survey in the 
Federation and RS to assess attitudes of medical professionals toward family medicine; (c) carry out 
a
media campaign to inform the public on the advantages of the new organization of the health care 
system and enable community participation in the Federation and RS; and (d) provide and change 
management training on primary health care reform in the Federation and RS; and (ii) training to: (a) 
the medicine faculties of four universities of the Recipient (Sarajevo, Mostar, Tuzla and Banja Luka); 
(b) staff of the Federation MOH and RS MOHSW; (c) staff of the two centers for health 
management on the development of a curriculum for health management, the development of short-
term courses for undergraduates, and institutionalization of health management training in four 
universities of the Recipient (Sarajevo, Mostar, Tuzla and Banja Luka). These activities are estimated 
to cost US$92,540 equivalent; 
 
(b) Public Health Disease Control Support Component
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the 
Federation MOH and Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the RS MOHSW to: (a) monitor 
performance of the Institutes of Public Health in the Federation and RS, respectively; (b) develop 
mechanisms for early detection of problems in the health sector; and (c) make recommendations on 
strategic interventions in case of problems in the Federation and RS; (ii) undertake an independent 
evaluation of the experience with the implementation of public health innovation grants in the 
Federation; and (iii) carry out a health promotion seminar (public relations campaign) for improved 
visibility of public health activities in the Federation and RS, including presentation of results of 
public health innovation grants. These activities are estimated to cost US$94,420 equivalent; and 
 
(c) Project Management Component
Provision of: (i) technical assistance to the Federation MOH and RS MOHSW for the 
development of an effective social mobilization campaign targeted at the general public in support of 
the transition from the existing model of delivery of services to family medicine; and (ii) training 
with the participation of governmental and non-government stakeholders to review comments before 
finalizing the outline and parameters of the public relations campaign. These activities are estimated 
to cost US$40,040 equivalent. 
Page  4
-
4
-
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS, to: (a) carry out the Activities 
with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of 
the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views 
with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the 
Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, 
if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient shall enter into a subsidiary grant agreement (the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement) with the Federation and RS and make available to the Federation and RS the proceeds of 
the Grant for purposes of carrying out the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Page  5
-
5
-
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in US$ equivalent)
1
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
Part A
:
The Federation
(1) Consultants’ services  
 
150,500 
 
100% 
 
(2) Training  
 
11,700 
 
100% 
 
Part B
:
RS
(3) Consultant’s services 
 
(4) Training 
 
56,660  
 
8,140
100% 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL 
 
227,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “training” means expenditures incurred in connection with 
conducting local training/workshops and stakeholder consultation, such as travel costs, including 
subsistence, rental of facilities, translation/interpretation costs and costs of materials; and 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for services supplied 
from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to 
IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after February 28, 2004, or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, 
except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of 
Bank approval of financing for the Project. However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing 
Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application 
is received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
1
Please provide the amounts for each category. 
Page  6
-
6
-
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance 
and Treasury or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient 
from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$20,000 
equivalent each; and (c) training, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
dollars a Federation special account and a RS special account (the Special Accounts) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS, to: maintain or cause to 
be maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS, to:: (i) have the records, 
accounts and financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to 
IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall, and shall cause the 
Federation and RS, to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) 
Page  7
-
7
-
above, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; (iii) enable ID
A’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that 
such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with 
IDA shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities ; or (c) if IDA has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  8
-
8
-
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the primary health care, public health disease control, and Project 
management components under paragraph 1.1 (a) (b) and (c) of the Annex estimated to cost less 
than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for the primary health care and public health disease 
control components under paragraph 1.1 (a) and (b) of the Annex tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such 
plan shall be updated every three (3) months during the execution of the Activities, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to 
time) as shall have been approved by IDA. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of 
Page  9
-
9
-
the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  10
-
10
-
Attachment II 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$30,000 in 
respect of the Federation Special Account, and an amount of US$20,000 in respect of the RS 
Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts have been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Accounts such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Accounts at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Accounts such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Accounts for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  11
-
11
-
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Accounts shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  12
-
12
-
Cleared and cc: A. Akerova (LEGEC), H. Koilpillai (LOA1G), K. Mostipan (ECSPS),  
O. Hayat (TFO), R. Raju (ACTTN)
 
