Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 7242-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National Highway Asset Management Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  December 6 , 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7242 -AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 2004, between the ARGENTINE 
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated May 24, 
2004, describing a program designed to gradually consolidate an efficient road network 
management strategy and establish a steady state condition of the National Road Network 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such 
program; 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through an adaptable program loan instrument which consists 
of two phases (to be supported by an equal number of loans over a period of 
approximately six years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Program); 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms 
part of the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
the text in Section 5.01 which reads “on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is deleted in its entirety; and 
(b) 
paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan." 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“CREMA Contract” means a multi-year contract under Part A of the 
Project, entered into by DNV (as defined below) with a private sector contractor, which 
contract obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road 
rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package, from design and programming 
of the works, through the execution of such works, with respect to an identified portion of 
the Non-Concessioned National Road Network (as defined below); 
(b) 
“DNV” means the Borrower’s 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad 
(National 
Highways Directorate), an entity vested with legal personality operating under the 
jurisdiction of MPFIPS (as defined below), and established by the Borrower’s Decree-
Law No. 505/58, dated January 16, 1958, as said Decree-Law has been amended to the 
date of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Environmental Evaluation and Management Manual” means DNV’s  
Manual de Evaluación y Gestión Ambiental
 
de
Obras Viales
 
of  July 1993; 
(d) 
“EU” means DNV’s Environmental Unit (
División Gestión Ambiental
)
esta
blished pursuant to DNV’s  Resolution No. 1486/94 of August 29, 1994; 
(e) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the list of CREMA Contracts under Parts A.1 and A.2 
of the Project and the Institutional Renewal Action Plan (as defined below); 
(g) 
“Institutional Renewal Action Plan” means DNV’s action plan 
(acceptable to the Bank) set forth in the Implementation Letter (which plan includes a 
timetable for the implementation of Project activities under Part D.1 of the Project), as 
said plan may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(h) “MPFIPS” 
means 
Ministerio de Planificación Federal, Inversión Pública 
y
Servicios,
 the Borrower’s Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and 
Services;  
(i) 
“National Road Network" means the Argentine roads network within the 
jurisdiction of DNV; 
(j) 
“Non-Concessioned National Road Network" means those portions of 
the Argentine paved roads network, within the jurisdiction of DNV, which are not 
managed by the private sector through concession arrangements; 
(k) “ONC” 
means 
Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones
,
the Borrower’s 
Office of National Procurement; 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank; 
(m) 
“PCU” means DNV’s Project Coordinating Unit (
Unidad Coordinadora 
del Proyecto
)
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Pesos” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated May 
24, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(q) 
“SOP” means 
Secretaria de Obras Públicas
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat 
of Public Works; 
(r) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement; and 
(s) 
“Updated Environmental Evaluation and Management Manual” means 
the Environmental Evaluation and Management Manual (as defined above), as said 
manual will be updated pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. 
Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to DNV. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
million
 
Dollars ($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación Argentina
 on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on  June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and to this end, shall cause DNV (pursuant to the terms of the Subsidiary 
Agreement) to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering, social and 
environmental practices, shall take and/or cause to be taken (as the case may be) all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable DNV to carry out the Project, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project.  
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower, through MPFIPS, shall, during Project implementation, make available to 
DNV promptly as needed, the amount of $108,100,000 (in Pesos equivalent), as 
counterpart funds for the Project.
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan (minus the amount 
under the Loan to be paid by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement) available to DNV under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and DNV, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the obligation of the Borrower to promptly provide the necessary 
funds to enable DNV to carry out the Project as provided in this 
Section; and 
(ii) 
the obligation of DNV: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(A) 
to carry out the Project in accordance with the pertinent 
provisions of this Agreement; 
 (B) 
to comply with the obligations referred to in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project; 
(C) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the 
Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections 
3.08 (b) and 3.10 (a) of this Agreement;  
(D) 
to participate in the review referred to in Section 3.10 (c) 
of this Agreement; and 
(E)  
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive 
or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
(d) 
(i)  
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its   
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and  
(ii)  
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.1, A.2, B, C and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated 
in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. 
(a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DNV to carry out the Project in accordance with a 
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (ii) the FMR formats; (iii) 
the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits; (iv) the Project monitoring 
indicators; (v) the Project disbursement procedures; and (vi) the Project procurement 
procedures, including a price methodology whereby the price of CREMA Contracts 
under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project will be adjusted as provided in Part D of Section I 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. 
(a) Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (a) and 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DNV:  
(i) 
to carry out and/or cause to be carried out Part A.1 of the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
Evaluation and Management Manual; 
(ii) 
to: (A) not later than November 30, 2004 update the 
Environmental Evaluation and Management Manual (the 
Updated  Environmental Evaluation and Management Manual) 
in a manner and on terms acceptable to the Bank, which updated 
version will include, 
inter alia
:
(1) the guidelines and procedures 
to be followed by DNV in the carrying out of environmental 
screenings and/or environmental assessments (as the case may 
be) in respect of the works under Parts A.2, A.3, B.1, C.1 (d) and 
C.2 (a) of the Project; (2) the standard environmental provisions 
to be included in the bidding documents for the works to be 
carried out under said Parts of the Project (including provisions 
Page  10
-
9
-
to minimize natural habitat conversion or degradation and to 
permit the maximum growth of natural vegetation (whether it is 
native grasslands, scrublands, or forests) within the pertinent 
right of way); (3) the guidelines for the preparation of the 
appropriate environmental management plan for each of the 
works to be carried out under said Parts of the Project; and (4) 
the procedures for the approval of environmental management 
plans; and (B) thereafter carry out and/or cause to be carried out 
said Parts of the Project in accordance with said updated version.  
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict amongst the terms of the Operational Manual, the 
Environmental Evaluation and Management Manual, the Updated Environmental 
Evaluation and Management Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.06. 
(a)  The Borrower shall cause DNV to operate and maintain, at 
all times during Project implementation, the PCU with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of the 
PCU to assist DNV in the coordination, monitoring and supervision of the carrying out of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to ensure that the PCU is, at all times 
during Project implementation, headed by a General Coordinator and assisted by other 
adequate professional staff (with expertise in engineering, administrative, procurement 
and financial matters) and administrative staff, all with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.07. 
(a) The Borrower shall cause DNV to operate and maintain, at all 
times during Project implementation, the EU with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of the EU 
to assist DNV in: (i) the environmental screening and/or environmental assessment of 
each of the works to be carried out under the Project (as mentioned in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement); and (ii) taking the appropriate actions to prevent and/or mitigate any 
potential negative environmental impacts under the Project which are within DNV’s  
jurisdiction. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to ensure that the EU is at all times 
during Project implementation staffed with adequate professional and administrative 
personnel, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.08 
(a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DNV to: 
Page  11
-
10 
-
(i) 
(A) prior to the commencement of any works under a CREMA 
Contract in respect of Part A.1 of the Project: (1) carry out an 
environmental screening and/or an environmental assessment (as 
the case may be) of the pertinent works; and (2) approve an 
environmental management plan, acceptable to the Bank, for 
each said works (which plan shall be based on the results of the 
environmental screening and/or environmental assessment 
mentioned in (1) herein, and the Bank comments on the results 
of said screening and/or assessment, if any), all in accordance 
with the provisions of the Environmental Evaluation and 
Management Manual; and (B) immediately after said approval, 
implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) 
the corresponding environmental management plan in 
accordance with its terms; and 
(ii)  
(A) prior to the commencement of any given works under Parts 
A.2, A.3, B.1 and C.1 (d) and C.2 (a) of the Project: (1) carry out 
an environmental screening and/or an environmental assessment 
(as the case may be) of the pertinent works; and (2) if 
appropriate to the nature of the works, approve an environmental 
management plan, acceptable to the Bank, for each of said works 
(which plan shall be based on the results of the environmental 
screening and/or environmental assessment mentioned in (1) 
herein and the Bank comments on the results of said screening 
and/or assessment, if any), all in accordance with the provisions 
of the Updated Environmental Evaluation and Management 
Manual; and (B) immediately after said approval, implement 
and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the 
corresponding environmental management plan in accordance 
with its terms. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause DNV to, ensure that: (i) works to be 
carried out under Parts A, C.1 (d) and C.2 (a) of the Project do not involve any 
resettlement of population, or construction of new roads or any realignment or widening 
of existing roads; and (ii) works to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project do not 
involve any resettlement of population. 
Section 3.09. 
(a) Before entering into:  
(i) 
 a CREMA Contract, the Borrower shall cause DNV to furnish to 
the Bank a report, satisfactory to the Bank, showing: (A) the 
road network prioritization of the particular works covered by 
such CREMA Contract, which prioritization shall be based on 
Page  12
-
11 
-
traffic levels, road infrastructure condition indicators and the 
ratio resulting from the comparison of the Net-present Value of 
said particular works over the cost of said particular works; and 
(B) the economic feasibility of the carrying out of the particular 
works covered by such CREMA Contract, including a showing 
that the economic rate of return for such works, calculated in 
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, is expected to 
be at least twelve percent; and  
(ii)  
a given works contract under Part B.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause DNV to furnish to the Bank a report, 
satisfactory to the Bank, showing the economic feasibility of the 
carrying out of the particular works under Part B.1 of the Project, 
including a showing that the economic rate of return for such 
works, calculated in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the 
Bank, is expected to be at least twelve percent. 
(b) 
For purposes of this section, “Net-present Value” means the net value or 
benefit of an investment minus the present value of said investment’s costs throughout 
the period of execution of said investment. 
Section 3.10.
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, and cause DNV to maintain, as the case may be, policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
cause DNV to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and to furnish to the Bank, not later than thirty days after the end of each calendar quarter 
during Project implementation (starting with the report due in January 2005), a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the calendar quarter preceding the date of presentation of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the following calendar quarter; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank and DNV not later than April 30 of each year of 
Project implementation (starting in the year 2005), the pertinent reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and Section 3.12 of this Agreement, and, thereafter, take 
and/or cause to be taken, as the case may be, all measures required to ensure the efficient 
Page  13
-
12 
-
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.11. 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to not later than January 31, 
2005, create, and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, specific budget 
line entries in its annual budget in order to keep track of the expenditures incurred during 
Project implementation. 
 
Section 3.12. 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to not later than May 31 of each 
year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2005), prepare and publish DNV’s 
annual report for the immediately preceding calendar year. Each such report shall contain 
a
complete description of DNV’s: (a) work program and operations performance; and (b) 
expenditures incurred in respect of the Project and the source of financing of said 
expenditures, for said calendar year.  
 
Section 3.13. 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to not later than November 30, 
2004: (a) establish and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation a steering 
committee with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including the 
responsibility to oversee the monitoring and supervision of the implementation of the 
Institutional Renewal Action Plan; and (b) designate a professional with experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Bank to head said committee throughout Project 
implementation. 
 
Section 3.14.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DNV to carry out the Institutional Renewal Action 
Plan in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SOP, shall provide the necessary assistance to 
DNV in the carrying out of the analysis referred to in Part D.1 (f) of the Project (which 
analysis is part of the activities included the Institutional Renewal Action Plan).  
 
Section 3.15. 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to: (a) not later than December 
31 of each year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2005), carry out road and 
traffic surveys of the Non-Concessioned National Road Network; and (b) not later than 
June 30 of each year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2006) prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request concerning the results of the survey carried out during the calendar year prior to 
the date of presentation of said report.  
Section 3.16. 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to: (a) not later than November 
30, 2004, update (in a manner acceptable to the Bank) its procurement information 
system so as to, 
inter alia
,
reflect information concerning DNV’s procurement process; 
Page  14
-
13 
-
and (b) immediately thereafter implement said system in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause DNV to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause DNV to: 
(i) 
have the respective financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall cause DNV to: 
(i)  
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
Page  15
-
14 
-
the Loan Account was made; enable the Bank’s representatives 
to examine such records; and ensure that such statements of 
expenditure are included in any audit that the Bank may have 
requested pursuant to  paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.10 (b) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DNV to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: sets 
forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; describes physical progress 
in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and sets 
forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants
 
Section 5.01.
 
The Borrower shall cause DNV: 
(a) 
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts 
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
(b) 
to carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, technical, engineering, social and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers; and 
 
(c) 
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, social, 
technical and environmental practices. 
 
Page  16
-
15 
-
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 6.01.  
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
That DNV shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that DNV will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 6.02.   Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty  
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 7.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been approved by DNV.  
 
Section 7.02.  
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DNV and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and DNV in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 7.03. The date March 7, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16 
-
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. 
The Minister of Economy and Production of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 8.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable address:   
  
   Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA    121942-AR 
     (5411) 43498815 
 
Baires 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America  
 
Cable address:   
  
   Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  18
-
17 
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Roberto Lavagna 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Felipe Saez 
 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
Honorary Witness: 
 
/s/ Julio de Vido 
Minister of Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services 
 
Page  19
-
18 
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
      % of 
 
Loan Allocated  
     Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in  
        to be 
Category
Dollars)
financed
(1) 
Works for CREMA 
 
 
131,300,000 
          
74% 
 
Contracts under Part A.1 
 
 
 of 
the 
Project 
    
 
(2)        Work for CREMA  
 
 
51,500,000 
           
74% 
 
Contracts under Part A.2 
 
of the Project 
 
(3)      
Works under Part B.1 of the  
 
7,300,000                       70% 
 
Project                                                   
 
 
(4)      
Works under Parts C.1 (d)   
 
3,120,000 
             70% 
 
and C.2 (a) of the Project 
 
(5) 
Goods   
 
 
 
140,000               
70% 
 
(6) 
Consultants' 
    
 
 
4,540,000 
             95% 
services 
   
 
(7) 
Training 
 
 
 
100,000               
100%  
 
(8) 
Front-end fee 
 
 
 
2,000,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(9) 
Premia for Interest  
 
 
      0 
 
Amount due under 
 Rate 
Caps 
and 
 
     Section 
2.09 
(c) 
of 
 Interest 
Rate 
Collars 
    this 
Agreement 
 
_________ 
 
200,000,000 
TOTAL     
======== 
Page  20
-
19 
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Training” means expenditures (other 
than those for consultants’ services) incurred by DNV, as approved by the Bank on the 
basis of an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation 
costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, and 
rental of training facilities and equipment under the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$20,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within one year before that date 
(but after May 31, 2004).  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:  
(a)  
goods costing less than $350,000 equivalent per contract (with the 
exception of the first two contracts for goods to be procured each year of Project 
implementation under Part B.1 and B.2 of Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
regardless of their cost);  
(b)  
works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract (with the 
exception of the first two contracts for works to be procured each year of Project 
implementation under each Parts B.1, C.1 (d) and C.2 (a) of the Project);  
(c)  
services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract;  
(d)  
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; and 
(e)  
Training under Category (4) as set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  21
-
20 
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) further preserve the Non-Concessioned 
National Road Network, through the gradual expansion of CREMA Contracts in said 
network; and (b) strengthen DNV’s  road sector management capacity.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Non-Concessioned National Road Network Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1. 
Carrying out, under the terms of twenty seven (27) CREMA Contracts (listed in 
the Implementation Letter), of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, 
resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or maintenance works for approximately 
4,628 kilometers of the Non-Concessioned National Road Network. 
2. 
Carrying out, under the terms of twenty one (21) CREMA Contracts (listed in the 
Implementation Letter), of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, 
or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or maintenance works for approximately 3,560 
kilometers of the Non-Concessioned National Road Network. 
3. 
Carrying out, under the terms of thirty five (35) CREMA Contracts, of 
rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, or asphalt concrete 
overlaying) and/or maintenance works for approximately 6,254 kilometers of the Non-
Concessioned National Road Network. 
Part B
:
Bridge Restoration and Construction 
1. 
Carrying out of:  
(a)  
bridge restoration works for approximately three (3) bridges of the Non-
Concessioned National Road Network (which works consist of either the widening of the 
deck from 6 to about 8 meters or the total replacement and reconstruction of the pertinent 
bridge within the existing right of way); and  
Page  22
-
21 
-
(b)  
construction works for two (2) bridges of the Non-Concessioned 
National Road Network to replace the existing ones (including the construction of new 
acceses to said bridges), all within the existing right of way. 
2. 
Carrying out of engineering designs for future bridge restoration works within 
the Non-Concessioned National Road Network. 
3. 
Adoption and implementation of a bridge management system.  
Part C
:
Road Safety
1. 
Design and implementation of a large-scale road safety pilot program in four 
corridors of the National Road Network (selected by DNV in accordance with criteria 
acceptable to the Bank), which program consists of, 
inter alia
:
(a)  
the design of a system to monitor and evaluate the impact of said 
program;  
(b)  
the design of an education and communication strategy, including the 
implementation of selected activities under said strategy such as the upgrading of current 
road safety educational practices at schools and the carrying out of an awareness 
campaign along said four corridors (including all urban centers within said corridors);  
(c)  
the preparation of engineering designs for the upgrading of safety 
standards in said corridors; and  
(d)  
the upgrading of safety standards, which upgrading consists of, 
inter 
alia
,
roadway edge widening and marking, placing rubble strips and obstacle shields 
along roadsides, placing horizontal markings, improving urban crossings and increasing 
size and quality of signs. 
2. 
(a) 
Enhancement of road safety conditions in approximately six intersections 
of the National Road Network, and the horizontal road demarcation of approximately 310 
kilometers of said network; and  
(b)  
carrying out of engineering designs for future road safety works within 
the National Road Network.    
 
Page  23
-
22 
-
Part D
:
Institutional Renewal
1. 
Design and implementation of an institutional renewal program for DNV which 
program consists of:  
(a)  
the  desi
gn of a human resources plan to further strengthen DNV’s 
technical and institutional capacity in its new envisioned role as strategic planner of the 
National Road Network and a result-oriented institution (including the implementation of 
selected activities within said plan);  
(b)  
the design of a technology modernization strategy to increase DNV’s 
productivity and strengthen its planning, supervisory and monitoring capacity (including 
the implementation of selected activities within said strategy);  
(c)  
the streamlining of administrative processes to achieve efficiency gains 
in the internal management of the institution;  
(d)  
the design and implementation of appropriate mechanisms to disseminate 
DNV’s administrative, operational and financial performance, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
preparation of a code of ethics;  
(e)  
the strengthening of DNV’s capacity to address environmental issues 
through the design and implementation of an environmental institutional strengthening 
plan; and  
(f)  
the carrying out of an analysis of the options to ensure long term 
financial sustainability in the road sector and stable flows of funds for road maintenance. 
 2. 
Strengthening of the PCU to assist DNV in the carrying out of the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  24
-
23 
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  
(a)  
the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by  
(b)  
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 1 and December 1 
 
Beginning June 1,2010 through June 1, 2018 
5.56% 
 
On December 1, 2018 
5.48% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
Page  25
-
24 
-
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either:  
(i) 
the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or  
(ii) 
if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  26
-
25 
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C.                     (i)  
The  invitations  to  bid,  bidding  documents,  minutes  of  bid 
openings, requests for expressions of interest and notifications of 
awards of all goods, works and services (including consultants’ 
services), as the case may be, to be procured under Parts A.2, B, 
C
and D of the Project shall be published in the web page of 
ONC in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and  
(ii)  
the provisions set forth in (i) herein shall also apply to those 
CREMA Contracts under Part A.1 of the Project, as appropriate. 
D.                    (i)  
All  contracts  for  works  procured  prior  to  the  date  of  this 
Agreement under Part A.1 of the Project shall contain a 
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each 
said contracts shall be adjusted in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank; and  
(ii)  
all contracts for works to be procured under Part A.2 of the 
Project shall contain a methodology, acceptable to the Bank, 
whereby the price of each said contracts shall be adjusted on a 
monthly basis, through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 E. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
Page  27
-
26 
-
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding.  
(b) 
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
Page  28
-
27 
-
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more per contract, and each contract for 
goods to be procured under Part B.3 of Section II of this Schedule; (b) the first two 
contracts for goods to be procured each year of Project implementation under Parts B.1 
and B.2 of Section II of this Schedule regardless of their cost; (c) each contract for works 
to be procured under Parts A and B.3 of Section II of this Schedule; (d) the first two 
contracts for works to be procured each year of Project implementation under Parts B.1 
and B.2 of Section II of this Schedule; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
 
or more, or to be selected 
on a sole source basis.  
2. 
In addition, the record of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent, or to be selected on a sole source basis, 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank.  
Page  29
-
28 
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $30,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to $30,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the  Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Page  30
-
29 
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the  
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the 
Project], shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  31
-
30 
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  32
-
31 
-
Reynaldo Pastor 
M:\ARGENTIN\839-AR National Highway Asset Mgt\839 AR-LA.doc 
June 3, 2004 5:12 PM
 
