                                            Document of
                                          The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00001727



                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-72420)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                                     IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                     US$ 200.00 MILLION

                                                TO

                                 THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                              FOR A

                  NATIONAL HIGHWAY ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                         JANUARY 26, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Average Exchange Rate Effective December 2010)

                           Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                               AR$ 1.00 = US$ 0.25
                               US$ 1.00 = AR$ 4.00

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Lending
BMS      Bridge Management System
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CREMA    Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract (Contrato de Recuperación y Mantenimiento)
CPI      Consumer Price Index
DNV      National Highways Directorate (Dirección Nacional de Vialidad)
DPV      Provincial Roads Directorate (Dirección Provincial de Vialidad)
FAP      Fiduciary Action Plan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GGP      Gross Geographic Product
GoA      Government of Argentina
HDM      Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return
INT      The World Bank Department of Institutional Integrity
IRI      International Roughness Index
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
Km       Kilometers
MOEP     Ministry of Economy and Production (Ministerio de Economía y de la Producción)
NPV      Net Present Value
OCCOVI   Concession Regulating Entity (Organo de Control de las Concesiones)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMS      Pavement Management System
SIL      Standard Investment Loan
SLUAT    Symposium of Latin American Environmental Units
SME      Small and Medium size Enterprise

                         Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                       Country Director:      Penelope J. Brook
                        Sector Manager:       Aurelio Menendez
                   Project Team Leader:       Maria Marcela Silva
                      ICR Team Leader:        Maria Marcela Silva
                                                ARGENTINA

                         National Highway Asset Management Project


                                                CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                      1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                       5 
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 10 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              16 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            17 
6. Lessons Learned                                                        19 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   20 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                      21 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                             22 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  23 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    26 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results                                       27 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          28 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           29 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders         33 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                                     34 
MAP                                                                       35 
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          NATIONAL
Country:                Argentina               Project Name:             HIGHWAY ASSET
                                                                          MANAGEMENT
Project ID:             P088153                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72420
ICR Date:               02/22/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          ARGENTINE
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 197.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 197.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Direccion Nacional de Vialidad
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/28/2004     Effectiveness:             04/26/2005       04/26/2005
Appraisal:            05/03/2004     Restructuring(s):                           11/27/2009
Approval:             06/29/2004     Mid-term Review:           09/01/2006       11/27/2006
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2008       08/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       6                      2
Roads and highways                                                     94                  98


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                25                  10
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 50                  80
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                 25                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                            David De Ferranti
Country Director:          Penelope J. Brook                     Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Aurelio Menendez                      Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:       Gylfi Palsson                         Maria Marcela Silva
ICR Team Leader:           Maria Marcela Silva
ICR Primary Author:        Gerard L. Liautaud


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall purpose of the program is to gradually consolidate an efficient road network
management strategy, bringing about the necessary resources to preserve the national
road network in the long term. Specific Objectives are to:

  1. Preserve the condition of vital road assets, through the gradual expansion of
performance-based contracts for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the non-
concessioned primary paved network;


                                                 ii
  2. Strengthen road sector management through carrying out a renewal program of DNV
to revitalize its role in the sector by: (i) reinforcing its human resource base, (ii)
consolidating its transformation into a results-oriented organization accountable for
specific outputs; (iii) introducing a systematic approach to bridge management and (iv)
enhancing road safety

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target      Completion or
                                                documents)         Values       Target Years
                  Implementation of a comprehensive results- oriented road maintenance program
Indicator 1 :     balancing efficiency, equity and regional development considerations, through
                  the expansion of CREMA system.
Value
quantitative or   9174                     16725                            12664
Qualitative)
Date achieved   05/10/2004                 12/31/2008                       08/31/2010
Comments        16,726 km target included outputs to be achieved though the simultaneous
(incl. %        execution of the APL1 and APL2. Intended target by end of APL1 was 14,182
achievement)    km (yet not formally established in PAD).
                Development of in-house capacity for strategic road asset management within a
Indicator 2 : modern results-oriented approach through the implementation of an Institutional
                Renewal Action Plan.
                                          Implementation of
                                          different activities
Value
                Institutional Renewal     under the                         About 70%
quantitative or
                Action Plan outlined      Institutional                     completed.
Qualitative)
                                          Renewal Action
                                          Plan
Date achieved 05/10/2004                   12/31/2008                       08/31/2010
Comments
                Several activities accomplished while others have been move forwards to the
(incl. %
                APL2 phase.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduced rehabilitation backlog and good condition of non-concessioned road



                                                iii
                network maintained though project implementation (measured though
                International Roughness Index -IRI)
                                                                               Average IRI
                                           Average IRI < 3.9
                                                                               2006=3.27
Value                                      in year 2006
                                                                               2007=3.29
(quantitative   IRI=3.6                    Maintain IRI < 4
                                                                               2008=3.28
or Qualitative)                            throughout project
                                           implementation
                                                                               2009=3.12
Date achieved 05/10/2004                   12/31/2008                          08/31/2010
Comments
                The better-than-expected results are due to the thicker overlay thickness and
(incl. %
                larger coverage of rehabilitation used for locally financed CREMA
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Implemented activities under Institutional Renewal Action Plan
                                           Short-run Human                     Human Resources
                                           Resources plan                      diagnostic, short-
                                           implemented,                        run plan designed
                                           Code of Ethics,                     and under
                                           Performance                         implementation,
                                           indicators, Road                    Code of Ethics,
Value
                                           Users Satisfaction                  Performance
(quantitative   No actions implemented
                                           Index,                              indicators designed
or Qualitative)
                                           strengthened                        and disseminated,
                                           environment unit,                   strengthened
                                           technological                       environment unit,
                                           modernization,                      partial
                                           streamelined                        technological
                                           processes                           modernization.
Date achieved 05/10/2004                   12/31/2008                          08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Unfinished agenda to be completed under APL2
achievement)
                Improved bridge conditions and bridge management in non-concessioned road
Indicator 3 :
                network
                                                                               BMS in operation
                                                                               for 250 bridges in
                                           Bridge
                                                                               most critical
                                           Management
Value                                                                          condition
                No Bridge Management System in
(quantitative                                                                  5 priority bridges
                System                     operation, 5
or Qualitative)                                                                being rehabilitated
                                           bridges
                                                                               (about 57% of
                                           rehabilitated.
                                                                               works are
                                                                               completed)
Date achieved 05/10/2004                   12/31/2008                          08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Integrated multi-disciplinary approach for road safety developed
Value           Weak support to road       Improved safety                     4 black spots
(quantitative   safety interventions, and conditions on 6                      improved,


                                                iv
or Qualitative) no institutional             blackspots,                        310 km of
                coordination                 horizontal                         horizontal marking
                                             demarcation in                     executed through
                                             310 km                             CREMA contracts
                                             Institutional                      Monitoring system
                                             arrangements in                    developed
                                             place, monitoring                  Education
                                             and evaluation                     campaigns designed
                                             system in place                    National Agency
                                             and                                for Road Safety
                                             communication.ed                   created by Law, and
                                             ucative campaigns                  in operation
                                             designed
Date achieved 05/10/2004                     12/31/2008                  08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %      Full development of multi-disciplinary approach to be completed during APL2
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     11/30/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     04/29/2005          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     09/16/2005         Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                   24.13
                             Moderately                    Moderately
  4     06/30/2006                                                                       111.93
                           Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  5     12/13/2006      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            155.35
  6     06/26/2007      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            177.02
  7     10/08/2007      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            177.02
  8     04/28/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            185.23
                                                           Moderately
  9     06/20/2008      Moderately Satisfactory                                          185.23
                                                         Unsatisfactory
                                                           Moderately
 10     10/17/2008      Moderately Satisfactory                                          185.23
                                                         Unsatisfactory
 11     04/30/2009            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            187.23
 12     12/07/2009            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   188.85
 13     06/28/2010            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   190.21
 14     12/24/2010            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   197.04


H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructuring        Board         ISR Ratings at  Amount            Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)          Approved       Restructuring Disbursed at           Key Changes Made




                                                  v
               PDO Change              Restructuring
                            DO   IP       in USD
                                         millions
  11/27/2009                S    S          188.85




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

By the end of 2004, when the appraisal of the project was finalized, Argentina's economy had already
begun to rebound strongly from the deepest political and economic crisis in generations that hit the
country in 2001-2002. The Ministry of Economy and Production (MOEP) had revised the official
projection of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth for that current year from 4.0 percent to 5.5 percent.
This followed an upward revision of the 2003 growth outcome at 8.7 percent. Industrial production rose
by 14.1 percent in the first quarter of 2004 over the same period in 2003, while at the same time the
construction industry index increased by 34 percent. Improvements in consumer and business
confidence had driven private sector projections of 2004 GDP growth to 6.5 percent or more. As of
March 2004, the 12-month Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation rate stood at 2.3 percent. Fiscal
performance was on track, and the government expected to exceed the primary surplus target of 3
percent of GDP for 2004.

In an effort to mitigate the aftermath of the crisis period, the Government of Argentina (GoA) was
focusing on implementing a strategy that emphasized sustainable growth within a framework of social
equity. The Government promoted increased infrastructure investment as a means of addressing
potential bottlenecks to sustaining economic recovery. The objective was to restore public and private
investment to levels that were at least commensurate with the authorities' medium-term growth
projections of some 3 percent per annum.

In particular, Argentina's transport sector was at a major crossroad in its process of modernization, and
the GoA's agenda for the next years was to: (i) address those structural weaknesses hindering transport
efficiency and economic competitiveness; and (ii) improve the institutional framework and the
governance of a sector that was still experiencing important adjustments to the interactions between the
public and private actors. The road sector which concentrates nearly 80 percent of total freight volume
movements and is the dominant mode of transport in the country, played a key role in the Government's
endeavor1.

At the time of the appraisal, the administration's vision for the future included: (i) operating and
maintaining high traffic highways through toll road concessions; (ii) consolidating a long-term
maintenance strategy for the non-concessioned paved national road network (about 22,000 km) through
a program designed to gradually expand the CREMA system; (iii) elevating the status of the National
Highway Directorate's (DNV) role as a driving force in the sector, re-orienting its capacity towards
strategic planning of the primary network (including the concessioned portion); (iv) prioritizing
investments in bridge rehabilitation and modernizing DNV's bridge management strategy; and (v)
improving road safety.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

In the early stages of project preparation, the operation was designed as Standard Investment Loan (SIL).
However, at appraisal, the project was reformulated as a two-phased Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to
be executed over a total period of six years (2004 to 2010) in order to allow for more flexibility and an

1
  Argentina has a relatively extensive road network managed by Government which consists of: (i) an estimated 39,000 km of national
roads (31,000 km paved) managed by the National Highways Directorate (DNV); and (ii) about 195,000 km of provincial roads under the
jurisdiction of 23 Provincial Road Directorates (DPV) which serve as main collectors and connectors between the national network and
productive regions.




                                                                 1
adequate sequencing of activities vis-à-vis alternative recovery scenarios. Each phase was to be
implemented over a four-year period: the first phase (APL1) from 2004 to 2008 and the second phase
(APL2) from 2006 to 2010.

The overall purpose of the Program was to gradually consolidate an efficient road network management
strategy, bringing about the necessary resources to preserve the national road agency in the long term.
Specific objectives were to: 1) Preserve the condition of vital road assets, through the gradual expansion
of performance-based contracts for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the non-concessioned primary
network (CREMA); and 2) Strengthen road sector management through carrying out a renewal program
of DNV to revitalize its role in the sector by: (i) reinforcing its human resource base; (ii) consolidating
its transformation into a result-oriented organization accountable for specific outputs; (iii) introducing a
systematic approach to bridge management; and (iv) enhancing road safety.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the APL1 to which this Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) refers to, established the following key indicators for the achievement of the Project Development
Objectives (PDOs): (i) percentage of paved non-concessioned network under CREMA system; (ii)
implementation of a bridge management system; and (iii) DNV having effectively developed actions
under an Institutional Renewal Action Plan. The original outcome/results indicators for the APL1
included in the Results Framework of the PAD are summarized in the table below:

            Objective                               Expected Outcome                                    Base Line
 Preserve condition of network   CREMA to cover 16,726 km                                           9,174 Km
 through expansion of CREMA
                                 40% located in poorest provinces
 coverage
 Strengthen road sector
                                 Institutional Renewal Action Plan Implemented                      No Action Plan
 management
          Components                                    Expected Result                                 Base Line
 CREMA                           Average IRI < 3.9 in year 2006
                                                                                                    IRI = 3.6
                                 Maintain IRI < 4 throughout project implementation
 Bridges                         Bridge Management System (BMS) in operation; 5 bridges
                                                                                                    No BMS
                                 rehabilitated
 Road Safety                                                                                        No Institutional
                                 Monitoring and Evaluation System in place, Communications
                                                                                                    Coordination
                                 and Educative Campaigns designed; Institutional arrangements
                                                                                                    Weak support to
                                 in place; Improved road safety conditions on 6 "black spots"
                                                                                                    road safety
                                 and horizontal demarcation on 310 km of roads
                                                                                                    interventions
 Institutional Renewal           Short-term human development plan implemented; Code of
                                 Ethics for DNV; Performance indicators and mechanisms to           No Action Plan
                                 promote transparency in place, user satisfaction index in place.

The Program's phasing was intended to concentrate government's efforts during the first stage in the
consolidation of the institutional foundations, and the procurement of works where the most pressing
rehabilitation needs were. The second phase would allow the flexibility to introduce additional
interventions needed to confront the transportation effects of sustained levels of economic activity in the
country, which at the time were difficult to anticipate.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The above development objectives and key indicators remained unchanged during the project execution
period.




                                                          2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The proposed project was expected to benefit, in particular, people in rural and low-income areas
through: (i) the reduction of time and travel costs; (ii) new employment opportunities generated by the
road rehabilitation and maintenance activities that require labor for carrying out the works and for the
production of materials; (iii) increased competitiveness and development of labor generating productive
activities (e.g., SMEs); and (iv) improved access to basic services.

1.5 Original Components

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the APL1 outlined the global 2004-2010 APL Program
which consisted of four components:

 A road rehabilitation and maintenance component designed to expand the CREMA system to
 achieve a total coverage of about 19,244 km of national roads during the period of 2004-2010, to be
 complemented with the rehabilitation of some 1,799 km through a two-year unit price contracts
 called "Sistema Modular". The 19,244 km of CREMA would include: (i) 8,188 km (48 contracts) to
 be financed by the Bank Loan; (ii) 8,772 km (55 contracts) to be financed with local funds; and (iii)
 2,284 km of contracts under execution from two previous Bank loans, the maintenance of which
 would be financed with local funds;
 A bridge management component introducing a systematic approach to bridge rehabilitation and
 maintenance and addressing the urgent needs of about 30 high priority bridges in the country;
 A road safety component, that included two sub-components: (i) a large-scale pilot initiative
 integrating engineering, enforcement and education measures over four pilot corridors; and (ii)
 selected road safety engineering interventions on about 35 identified critical spots of the road
 network across the country;
 An Institutional renewal component consisting of technical assistance, equipment and training,
 and aimed at strengthening the DNV in the areas of human resources, technical modernization,
 administrative processes, transparency mechanisms, environment, and long-term financial
 sustainability.

The first phase of the program (APL1) included four components:

  Component 1 ­ Rehabilitation and Maintenance through performance-based contracts (Estimated
  cost of US$286.1 million of which US$182.8 million would be financed by the Bank Loan). The
  Bank would support the expansion of DNV's CREMA Program, through the procurement of 48
  CREMA contracts over a total length of 8,188 km. In addition, the Government would procure with
  local funds 35 CREMA contracts covering some 6,254 km and finance the maintenance of 2,284 km
  of contracts under execution from previous Bank loans. Given the 5 year nature of this type of
  contracts and the fact that the resources required to finance said new contracts was well above the
  amounts available for the implementation of the APL1, it was anticipated that some of the contracts
  would have to be procured under the APL1 but partially financed both under the APL1 and APL2.
  Therefore, as explained in detail in section 3.2 below, the physical targets intended to be met under
  this component with funds available under APL1 are equivalent to about: (i) 25 Bank-financed
  CREMA contracts totaling 4,276 km of roads (at an estimated cost of US$ 247.0 million); and (ii) 8
  new government financed CREMA contracts totaling about 1,192 km plus the continued financing
  of the maintenance of CREMA contracts previously under execution over a total length of about
  2,284 km (at an estimated cost of about US$ 39.1 million).




                                                   3
     Component 2 ­ Bridge Restoration (Estimated cost of US$10.7 million of which US$7.5 million
     would be financed by the Bank Loan). The project was designed to finance works on five bridges
     pre-selected by DNV due to their critical status and urgent need of intervention. Works would
     include construction, reconstruction, replacement, widening and rehabilitation activities, all to be
     carried out within the existing right-of-way. Also, a comprehensive bridge management tool to
     systematically prioritize bridge interventions would be implemented, and engineering designs for
     future bridge restoration projects prioritized through this tool would be financed under the project.

     Component 3- Road Safety (Estimated cost of US$5.8 million of which US$4.4 million would be
     financed by the Bank Loan). The project was designed to finance: (i) the design and implementation
     of a large-scale road safety pilot program in four corridors of the national road network, including
     the design of a system to monitor and evaluate the impacts, the definition of impact indicators and
     baseline measurements, the design of educational and communication campaigns, and the
     preparation of engineering designs for the upgrading works in the proposed corridors; and (ii) road
     safety engineering interventions (including engineering designs) on six identified critical spots or
     intersections of the road network across the country, as well as the horizontal pavement marking on
     approximately 310 km.

     Component 4- Institutional Renewal (Estimated cost of US$3.5 million of which US$3.3 million
     would be financed by the Bank Loan). The project was intended to provide technical assistance to:
     (i) identify DNV's needs in terms of human resources and implement a short-run strengthening plan;
     (ii) facilitate DNV's technological modernization; (iii) streamline time-consuming administrative
     processes; (iv) strengthen DNV's capacity for addressing environmental issues; (v) design
     transparency mechanisms to disseminate DNV's performance, (vi) analyze options for ensuring long
     term financial sustainability in the road sector and stable flows of funds for road maintenance, and
     (vii) strengthen the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to assist DNV in the implementation of the
     project.

The second phase of the program (APL2) would also comprise: (i) a substantial CREMA component to
complete the implementation of CREMA contracts procured under APL1 and new CREMAs to be
procured (both Bank-financed and locally financed) to meet a revised target of 16,700 Km by the end of
the APL Program2; (ii) the restoration of about 13 additional bridges; (iii) the implementation of a large
scale road safety pilot program in 2 corridors and the upgrading of about 15 additional critical spots;
and (iv) an institutional component aimed at pursuing to completion the activities initiated during the
first phase of the program.

1.6 Revised Components

No formal revisions were made to the original components of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes

Only two types of amendments were made to the original loan agreement, namely: (i) extending twice,
with Management approval, the closing date of the project in order to facilitate its implementation and to
allow the Borrower to substantially achieve its development objectives, and (ii) making some minor
reallocations of funds among categories. In addition to these formal amendments, and as discussed later
in Section 3, significant changes were made by DNV in the rehabilitation standards adopted for the new

2
    Target revised in the Project Appraisal Document for the APL2 operation. See Report No. 39716-AR, page 40.




                                                                    4
CREMA contracts to be financed with local funds, both in terms of overlay thickness and extent or
lengths of rehabilitated sections.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project quality at entry was satisfactory for the reasons described below.

The project was fully in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The background analysis
that supported the project design was sound as it was fully aligned with the main pillars of the CAS
(approved by the Board on April 15, 2004) that sought to reduce the extent and severity of poverty in
Argentina by focusing on: (i) promoting sustained economic growth with equity; (ii) social inclusion;
and (iii) improved governance. The CAS emphasized that one of the building blocks for sustained
economic growth was maintaining and improving key infrastructure assets that facilitated regional
development and the inclusion of Argentina in a global economy. Expanding the CREMA program to
other regions of the country aimed precisely at producing a fairer balance in geographic coverage by
targeting poorer regions and provinces with lower levels of economic activity and whose road network
usually ended up neglected during times of tight fiscal constraints. Finally, initiatives to increase
governance, accountability and transparency in the road sector were also considered in the project
design through the institutional renewal component.

Lesson learned from other projects were incorporated. The project incorporated in its design the
lessons learned from previous Bank-financed operations, essentially related to: (i) excessive cost
overruns and delays in project implementation; (ii) insufficient and/or unstable funding for long-term
maintenance; and (iii) lack of decisive support from the Government for carrying out institutional
development initiatives. Problems of cost overruns and delays in project execution that were in the past
attributed to inadequate or untimely designs and/or variation orders commonly observed on traditional
ad-measurements contracts were expected to be addressed through the expanded use of the CREMA
system3. Problems of shortage of funds for routine maintenance that flawed road rehabilitation projects
in the past would be addressed under the CREMA contracts, since the long-term five-years payment
obligations become legally binding on the Government4. Finally, in terms of institutional development
activities, project design focused on few critical achievable goals and allowed for additional flexibility
to accommodate the agenda according to evolving needs, through the selection of the APL lending
instrument.

A range of risks was identified during project preparation and appropriate mitigation measures
were considered, includingamong others: (i) the Government's ability to expand the CREMA program
due to fiscal constraints (to be mitigated by defining expansion targets according to historic budget
allocations and adapting standards of rehabilitation to the conditions of different segments of the
network, as well as by supporting a road sector financing study); (ii) DNV under-performing in the
implementation of the CREMA program due to its increased obligations under the concession program
(to be mitigated by strengthening its capacity in preparation of engineering designs, and bidding and
supervision of the concessioned works); (iii) DNV's lack of support and/o ownership for the

3
  Indeed, the first CREMA program that was implemented between 1997 and 2002 had proven that: (i) cost overruns represented less than
4 percent increase in costs over the life of the project (such increase being essentially for unforeseen or force-majeure compensation events)
and (ii) works and program activities were completed on time and satisfactorily.
4
  Experience over the last 5 to 7 years showed that the budgetary process had given CREMA contracts a higher priority than other
expenditures, particularly during times of fiscal constraints or financial crisis




                                                                      5
institutional renewal process (to be mitigated by designing a gradual agenda, preparing and
implementing Twinning Arrangements, and designating a high-level staff and a steering committee
responsible for coordinating the process); (iv) DNV falling short in the implementation of the large scale
road safety corridor due to the absence of a higher-level coordinating agency (to be mitigated by
providing assistance to prepare, design and implement the strategy, seeking allies outside DNV, and
inducing the decision for establishing a high level road safety leading agency).

During preparation, the Government's commitment and support at different levels were adequate.

QAG did not evaluate nor rate the Quality at Entry of the project.

2.2 Implementation

Four factors affected most the implementation of the project. The first factor ­ outside government's
control - was the cost increase for road works that started towards the end of 2004, and for which
changes in world markets and prices (particularly increase in the cost of petrol and associated by-
products such as asphalt and fuels) were a major contributor. While Argentina had enjoyed an inflation-
free environment over the previous fifteen years since the 1990 Law of convertibility that pegged the
peso to the US dollar, and while it would have been difficult to anticipate and incorporate such a factor
during the preparation and appraisal of the project, cost increase for road works was persistent during
project implementation, averaging about 1.3 percent per month. Indeed, between January 2004 and
December 2009 the cost of road works in Argentina had increased by about 90 percent. This factor was
putting at risk the financial feasibility of the project and the achievement of the physical target of
kilometers of CREMA aimed at during appraisal. To mitigate that risk, two series of actions were taken
by the Government and by the Bank. The first action taken by the Government was to increase
substantially DNV's budget allocations from about US$520 million in 2005 to US$ 2 billion in 2009.
The second action proposed by the Government in 2007 and accepted by the Bank was to increase the
amount of the loan to be assigned to the second phase of the project (APL2) from US$ 200 million to
US$ 400 million.

The second factor ­ also outside government's control at the time - was the response of the local
construction industry to the first round of bidding officially launched under the project in June 2005.
That bidding process involved ten CREMA contracts and resulted in bidders' proposals being much
higher than expected with a limited price variation among the bids. At the time, and given a previous
precedent5, the Government decided to cancel the bidding process and postpone all subsequent biddings
under the project until an in-depth analysis was carried out. The content of said analyses indicated
broader issues facing the road construction market in Argentina (across the board and not only for the
CREMA), including: (i) limited competition due to the industry being strained as a result of an
imbalance between its capacity (eroded after the 2001 economic crisis) and the high demand for road
works following an upsurge of public investments in the sector; and (ii) an unforeseen inflation of about
on the cost of materials (in particular asphalt), gas-oil, labor and transport that occurred between the
periods of DNV estimates (end of 2003 - early 2004) and bid presentation (June 2005). To help
mitigate the impact of those issues, the Government and the Bank agreed on a wide reaching plan to
enhance the procurement processes, which included the following measures:


5
 A similar response was obtained in March 2004 from 21 bids launched under the previous Bank-financed project Loan 4295-AR, which
was also characterized by higher-than-expected bid prices, closeness of bids, and small average number of participants per bid. For lack of
hard and solid evidence of market distortions, the 21 best proposals of the 2004 bidding process were accepted and contracts awarded
accordingly.




                                                                    6
        Implementing institutional strengthening measures in the design and costing of road works
        within a context of increased volatility of prices: DNV updated the designs of future CREMA
        contracts on the basis of new network condition and traffic surveys, and revised estimates in
        accordance with current market prices;
        Establishing mechanisms to monitor evolution of prices and market responses to new bids;
        Assessing the capacity of the construction industry: the Government carried out such assessment
        in order to identify possible issues that could curtail competition and to have a clearer view of the
        characteristics faced by the industry;
        Strengthening the procurement strategy: DNV improved the bidding strategy and reformulated
        the project's procurement plan to reflect and incorporate the lessons learned, including the
        conclusions of the assessment study of the capacity of the industry;
        Revisiting and adjusting biding documents to increase competition: DNV revised and adjusted a
        number of clauses of the bidding documents in order to facilitate the entry of new firms in the
        CREMA market;

In addition, the Bank enhanced supervision by carrying out twice a year independent technical
performance audits on a sample of ongoing contracts to ensure that rehabilitation and maintenance
works met performance requirements, and that road agency's supervision was enforcing contracts. At
the country level, the Bank introduced through the May 2006 CAS a Fiduciary Action Plan (FAP) aimed
at: (i) increasing the transparency in Bank financed projects; (ii) improving the strategic focus and
coverage of existing Bank supervision tools geared towards evaluating fiduciary risks; and (iii) ensuring
increased transparency and competition practices in public procurement.
By April 2006, and after achieving significant progress in the implementation of the above Action Plan,
DNV resumed the bidding process of the CREMA and through a series of indicators assessed that such
Plan had a positive impact on the outcome of the bids launched since 20066. Although mitigated, the
second factor caused a project implementation delay of nearly one year, and prompted the request and
approval of the first one-year extension of the closing date from December 31, 2008 to December 31,
2009.
The third factor that affected project implementation ­ although within the implementation agency
control ­ was DNV's management effectiveness and commitment to the bridges, road safety and some
of the actions of the Institutional Renewal components. Indeed, at the mid-term review on November 27,
2006 and despite the project team's previous efforts and due diligence in reminding DNV of the need to
comply with the appraisal's estimated pace of implementation to enable the timely triggering the APL2,
it was evident that DNV had concentrated most of its efforts in solving the procurement and
implementation issues that had occurred on the project's main component (the CREMA), while
seriously lagging behind on the originally planned implementation schedule of other smaller (yet
important) components7.
At the time, it became evident that two triggers that were expected to be met before APL2 was presented
to the Board by mid 2007 (design of a human resources action plan and the carrying out of an analysis of
the road sector financing) were not achievable within the APL1 original time framework. However, it
was also noted that the context when the APL1 was conceived, and consequently the triggers set, was
very different by 2007. An assessment carried out concluded that the fact that said triggers hadn't been
6
  As measured by: (i) an average of 5 bids per process; (ii) a significant reduction in the difference between the lowest evaluated bids and
the revised official estimates, with an average of 10% above; and (iii) awarding about half of the contracts to firms that had not yet
benefited from CREMA contracts previously.
7
  Rehabilitation of 5 bridges had not yet materialized; consulting firms for the design of the road safety corridors had not been procured;
bidding documents for the works on the critical black spots had not been yet finalized; human resources study had not yet been awarded;
road sector financing study was not available, Code of Ethics and development of road user satisfaction indices had not started; etc..




                                                                     7
met was not putting at risk the investment Program financed by the operation and it was agreed that said
objectives could still be pursued under APL28. Actions to remedy the observed shortcomings and to put
back on track the situation in those components were to: (i) continue monitoring closely the
implementation of delayed products; (ii) provide a no-objection to a second extension of the closing
date of the project from December 31, 2009 to August 31, 2010 in order to enable at least a substantial
completion of the bridge rehabilitation program; and (iii) make use of the flexibility given by the APL
instrument to complete other unfinished tasks of DNV's Renewal Plan during the implementation of the
second phase of the project (APL2).

The fourth factor that affected implementation and was within the executing agency's control was the
overly conservative overlay design and highly overestimated costs of routine maintenance adopted by
DNV for the CREMA contracts financed with Treasury funds. Compared to the standards applied in the
Bank-financed CREMAs (average asphalt concrete overlay thickness of about 4 to 5 cm and routine
maintenance unit costs of between US$ 4,000 and US$ 5,000/km/year), the CREMAs designed and
executed under the locally financed sub-component allowed for overlay thickness in the order of 6 to 7
cm and for routine maintenance cost in the order of US$7,000/km/year (with peaks of US$ 8,000 to
10,000/km/yr) for similar traffic and network condition prior to rehabilitation. As discussed further
under Section 3.3 "Efficiency", such unnecessary designs had a direct impact on the final length or
coverage of network achieved under CREMA and on the economic efficiency of the system.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design. A results framework was established including a series of indicators to monitor the
progress toward achieving the project development objectives. Those indicators were adequate and used
effective and reliable collection methods. For example, the first part of the PDO that relates to the
preservation of the condition of vital road assets was to be monitored through: (i) the total expanded
coverage of the CREMA system, as measured by the number of kilometers of CREMA contracts
tendered, awarded and in execution under the project in order to achieve a final coverage of 16,725 km;
(ii) a minimum percentage coverage of CREMA contracts located in the poorest provinces of the
country (defined by their Gross Geographic Product -GGP), measured by the number of kilometers of
CREMA in execution in those provinces that would; and (iii) the reduction of the rehabilitation backlog
on the non-concessioned network, while continuing to maintain it in good condition, as measured by a
standard riding quality test called "the International Roughness Index (IRI)" of the pavements. The
target defined for this last indicator, was to keep IRI below 4 throughout project implementation, based
on the base line of 3.6 IRI and given the following evolution of roughness, as predicted by the HDM
economic evaluation over the program period (2004 and 2010):

     Year             2003              2004              2005              2006              2007              2008             2009
    Avg. IRI           3.5               3.6               3.8               3.9               3.9               3.8              4.1

The above evolution of roughness took into account the fact that the CREMA component to be financed
with local funds would use minimal thickness of overlays (between 1cm of slurry seal and 3 cm of
asphalt concrete) over only 30 percent of the total length of the contracts.

The second part of the PDO relating to the strengthening of the road sector management was to be
monitored either: (i) by easily measurable indicators, when the outcome was physical and could be

8
  By 2007, DNV's budget increased threefold and as such: (i) DNV had been reinvigorized to deliver its largest portfolio of road works in
more than 25 years, demonstrating it had the institutional capacity to design, contract and supervise said work load; (ii) the pressing needs
for resources had been reduced and the objective and focus of the road sector financing study had changed.




                                                                     8
expressed in quantitative terms (e.g., 5 bridges to be rehabilitated, six black spots to be restored, etc); or
(ii) when the outcome results could not be expressed in quantitative terms, by specific implementation
schedules that would specify defined products and due dates for completion.

M&E Implementation and Utilization. During project implementation, appropriate data were
collected in order to monitor progress, such as the annual traffic and road network condition surveys
(including the measurement of roughness - IRI) routinely carried out by DNV, using reliable methods
and equipments. To measure the progress made under the institutional development and compliance
with related covenants, the semi-annual progress reports prepared by DNV provided useful updates,
while bi-annual supervision missions with comprehensive aide memoires helped to assess regularly
actions taken, progress, and results achieved. Based on the data collected, timely Implementation
Status and Results Reports (ISRs) informed management on issues and/or on progress achieved under
each component, and helped decision-makers take appropriate actions aimed at ensuring successful
implementation of the project, such as granting of extensions of the closing date of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Procurement. An assessment of DNV's capacity to implement procurement actions for the project was
carried out during appraisal and was found satisfactory. To enhance project's procurement performance
a number of measures were taken between appraisal and negotiations9. During project implementation,
however, procurement ratings were qualified as Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) on several occasions
since 2006 (after the higher-than-expected bid prices occurred in June 2005 when the first round of bids
under the project was launched). As explained in Section 2.2 above, the implementation of a wide
reaching action plan to enhance the procurement process helped to address this issue. Notwithstanding,
as observed in the procurement ex-post reviews carried out afterwards, other aspects continued
hindering the efficiency of the procurement process including: (i) continuous repetition of procedural
mistakes; (ii) DNV's cumbersome internal procedures implying that bidding processes required much
more time than expected; and (iii) the chronic lack of an experienced procurement specialist. Even
though DNV hired a procurement specialist and carried out a study to analyze internal procedures to
identify measures to expedite procurement process, these measures were taken after all works had been
procured and as such it was not possible to assess the impacts of said initiatives.

Financial Management. A review of the capacity of DNV and of the PCU to effectively manage and
implement financially the project was carried out during appraisal. The main conclusion was that DNV
had the required institutional capacity and human resources for the project's financial administration.
However, some opportunities for improvement were identified, and with the implementation of an
Action Plan agreed with the government the project management arrangements at loan effectiveness
were considered to satisfy the Bank minimum financial management requirements. During project
implementation the financial management of the project remained in compliance with Bank procedures.
Environmental and Social Aspects. At appraisal project was qualified as "Category B", following
Bank's Operational Policy (OP 4.01). Main civil works that would be carried out consisted of
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads, without altering their physical conditions, and no
significant environmental and social impacts that could endanger the natural surroundings of the area of
influence were expected. An environmental assessment of the project was carried out based on which, it
was concluded that the project was environmentally viable and complied with the Bank's safeguard
policies. During project implementation the project remained in compliance with Bank's policies.
9
 including the development of a Procurement Plan for project implementation, an adaptation of the procurement information system in
order to reflect changes induced by the devaluation of the peso, the adoption of an adequate Operational Manual, and a suitable
methodology to adjust monthly the price of CREMA contracts to be procured under the loan




                                                                9
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
As mentioned previously at the beginning of Section 1.2, the project is the first phase of a two-phase
APL. The appraisal and approval by the Board of the second phase of the program (APL2) in May 2007
helped to provide timely the additional funds necessary for the successful completion of the CREMA
works initiated during the latter phase of the APL1, and for the financing of the remaining contracts in
line with the severe increase in costs observed for road works since 2004. Likewise, the follow-up
operation allows a successful completion of the unfinished activities under the institutional component
that suffered delays and were initiated towards the end of the APL1.
Besides the follow-up operation and in line with the June 2006 CAS, the Bank defined a significant
pipeline of new investment operations that have special emphasis on modernizing the transport sector in
the country. Those operations include the Road Safety Project, the Santa Fe Infrastructure project, the
Cordoba Road Infrastructure project, the additional financing for the Buenos Aires Infrastructure
project, and the Provincial Road Infrastructure project, with the last three projects containing a
performance-based CREMA component. These projects would help to ensure sustainability of the
achievements of APL.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project Development Objectives set out at appraisal remained highly relevant throughout project
implementation, including during the preparation of the second phase of the program (APL2) in 2007 for
which the same objectives were applied. They continue to be fully consistent with the objectives of the
latest CAS dated May 6, 2009 and that covers the period 2010-201210.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
3.2.1 First Specific Objective: Preserve the condition of vital road assets, through the gradual
expansion of performance-based contracts for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the non-
concessioned primary paved network.
Outcome Indicator and Expected Results for the CREMA. The final outcome indicator for the entire
two-phased Program, was to expand the CREMA system to cover 19,244 km of the paved non-
concessioned national network. The intermediate outcome indicator at the end of the first phase
(APL1), was to have increased the coverage of CREMA to 16,726 km (from a base line of 9,174 km), of
which at least 40% would be in the poorest provinces of the country (as defined by the GGP). However
the target of 16,726 km included measurable outcomes that were expected during the simultaneous
execution of the APL1 and APL2, and not only under the APL1 phase. As mentioned before, the
operation in its early stages of preparation was conceived as a SIL, however since said approach would
commit a large amount of funds from the outset and remove some of the incentives for carrying out the
institutional strengthening activities, it was decided at appraisal to use instead an APL. In contrast to the
other components of the project that reflected the change in lending instrument by attributing specific
targets for the APL1, for the CREMA component, the Results Framework of the PAD specified instead
a target that also included a portion of Bank-financed and Treasury-financed CREMA contracts
projected under the APL2. Indeed, given that CREMAs are 5-year contracts, an overlap was expected to
occur between the APL1 and APL2 and it was anticipated that some of the contracts would have to be
10
   Again, the project's objectives support substantially the 2009 CAS's three pillars, namely: (i) sustained economic growth with equity,;
(ii) social inclusion,; and (iii) improved governance.




                                                                   10
procured under the APL1 but partially financed both under the APL1 and APl2. In addition, contracts
were expected to come to term at different stages during program implementation and re-bid in order to
maintain the coverage of the program at a certain level.
In reality, from the Program and Project description detailed in Annex 4 of the PAD, it is possible to
infer the intended specific target of CREMA coverage under the APL1. Regarding the Bank-financed
portion, for the entire Program, it was expected that a total of 48 contracts totaling 8,188 km would be
financed by the Bank under the combined APL loan proceeds assigned to the component (US$ 350
million), representing an average individual length of 170.6 km per CREMA contract. Since the loan
for the APL1 included US$ 182.8 million for CREMAs, the expected number of kilometers of CREMA
to be achieved in that first phase would be 4,276 km, corresponding to about 25 contracts (the remaining
3,912 km, or about 23 contracts, intended to be achieved under the APL2).
Likewise, regarding the locally-financed CREMAs, for the entire Program, it was expected that a total of
55 new contracts totaling 8,772 km would be funded for an amount of US$ 287.6 million, representing
an average individual length of about 159.5 km per CREMA contract. Since the amount assigned to the
APL1 was US$ 39.1 million, the expected number of kilometers of CREMA to be achieved under the
APL1 would be 1,192 km, corresponding to about 7 to 8 contracts. In addition, DNV was expected to
continue financing the maintenance of about 2,284 km of CREMA awarded under the previous two
Bank loans (3611-AR and 4295-AR) that were coming to term at different stages during the 2005-2010
period. Therefore, the intended target for the CREMA coverage under the APL1 was 7,752 km. The
coverage for the combined APL1 and APL2 by the end of the APL1, could be interpreted as 14,182 km
(as shown in the following Table), and be used, for comparison purposes, as the outcome result indicator
in the Results Framework (yet it was not formally revised in the Loan Agreement).
Results Achieved under the CREMA as of August 31, 2010. As indicated in Annex 2 "Outputs by
Component", the number of kilometers of CREMA contracts in execution at the revised closing date of
this project (August 31, 2010) reached a total of 12,664 km, representing 89.2 percent of the intended
target for APL1. Of these 12,664 km, 5,163 km (or 40.7 percent) are located in the poorest provinces of
the country, thus meeting also the target of 40% specified at appraisal. The Table below summarizes the
comparisons between the expected and achieved outcomes:

                                                                                   Intermediate
                                                       Total outcome                                         Corrected/Adjusted          Achieved
                                                                               outcome indicator at
                                                      indicator at the                                        outcome indicator             at
         CREMA sub-component                                                     the end of APL1
                                                       end of APL2                                           at the end of APL1          Closing
                                                                                according to PAD
                                                           (km)                                                      (km)                 (km)
                                                                                       (km)
New Bank-financed CREMA under
                                                             8,188
APL1+ APL2
 Bank-financed CREMA under APL1                              4,276                      8,188                         4,276                 4,494
 Bank-financed CREMA under APL2                              3,912                                                    3,912                 1,246
New locally-financed CREMA under
                                                             8,772
APL1+ APL2
 Locally-financed CREMA under APL1                           6,254                      6,254                         1,192                 1,126
 Locally-financed CREMA under APL2                           2,518                                                    2,518                 3,300
Previous CREMA the maintenance of
which is financed with local funds (see                      2,284                      2,284                         2,284                 2,468
Note below)
Total length in Km                                          19,244                      16,726                        14,182               12,664
N.B. Of the total CREMA contracts under execution at appraisal and expected to come to term during the implementation of the APL1, some were extended
for an additional 1 to 2 years maintenance period. Others were replaced by new CREMA locally financed under the APL2




                                                                         11
Impact of Works on the Condition of the network. Another expected outcome of the expansion of the
CREMA program was that the rehabilitation and maintenance works carried out under the project would
help prevent further deterioration of the non-concessioned network, measured through the International
Roughness Index (IRI). As explained in section 2.3 it was expected that the IRI should be below 3.9 in
2006 and below 4 throughout the project implementation period, the base line at appraisal being 3.6.
The Table below shows that not only the expected target was met but also that the project as executed
helped to improve the condition of the network (the average IRI declined from 3.6 to 3.1). Indeed, the
better-than-expected results are due to the thicker overlay thickness and larger coverage of rehabilitation
used for the locally financed CREMA. The project also reduced the maintenance backlog on the
network11 from 16.1 percent to 5.4 percent at the end of 2009, and had a positive impact reducing the
proportion of roads in poor or bad condition (with IRI>5) from a base line of 5% in 2004 to 0.5% at the
end of 2009. The proportion in good condition rose from 83.8 percent to 94.6 percent. The following
Table demonstrates the improvement of network condition during project implementation:

                 Indicator                         2004         2005          2006          2007            2008           2009
 Average IRI                                       3.52         3.48          3.27          3.29            3.28           3.12
 % in excellent condition IRI<3                    24.8         26.4          36.2          36.4            37.3           44.4
 % in good condition IRI<4                         83.8         84.6          90.9          89.3            88.8           94.6
 % Backlog IRI>4                                   16.1         15.4           9.1          10.7            11.2            5.4
 % Poor IRI>5                                       4.9          4.2           1.9            2               2             0.5

3.2.2. Second Specific Objective: Strengthen road sector management through carrying out a renewal
program of DNV to revitalize its role in the sector by: (i) reinforcing its human resource base; (ii)
consolidating its transformation into a result-oriented organization accountable for specific outputs;
(iii) introducing a systematic approach to bridge management; and (iv) enhancing road safety

Institutional Renewal of DNV. Progress achieved under the objective to renew and revitalize DNV's
role in the road sector has been mixed, even though a number of important actions have been carried out
during the final years of project implementation to address some critical issues identified at appraisal.
About 70 percent of the original scope of the Action Plan has been achieved, with some of the activities
shifted to the second phase of the program. Main achievements are presented below:

        Human Resources Modernization Program: The following actions have been undertaken: (i)
        intensive training of DNV's personnel in the areas of road planning, road safety, and winter
        maintenance (through a twinning arrangement with the U.S. Federal Highway Administration);
        and (ii) a detailed diagnosis of the current state of the staff platform of the DNV, on the basis of
        which, a short-term training program aimed at strengthening the capacity of the district and
        regional staff has been prepared and will be financed and carried out during the APL2. Currently,
        based on the results of the diagnosis, a much longer-term program of activities is being prepared,
        in particular to reflect the recent responsibility bestowed on DNV to manage the national
        concessioned network. It is expected that the long-term program will also be financed and carried
        out during the second phase of the program.
        Program for Technological Modernization: The following actions have been taken: (i) DNV's
        Soils and Materials Laboratory modernized through the procurement of new equipment, (ii) the
        acquisition of a modern set of computer equipment and software; and (iii) the design of a new
        strategy for axle-load control on the road network, using cutting edge "Weigh-in-Motion" systems
        that will be financed during the second phase of the program.

11
  Defined as the length of road (expressed as a percentage of the total length of the non-concessioned network) with an index IRI greater
than 4.




                                                                  12
      Revision of Processes and Procedures: The following activities were carried out: (i) a study
      aimed at identifying the bottlenecks that often plague the procurement of works within the entity,
      on the basis of which recommendations to streamline procedures have been made and will be
      implemented during the second phase of the program; (ii) a study of the body of legal norms
      ruling the Institution and a revised set of norms has been posted on DNV's website; (iii) technical
      assistance has been procured to help establishing a new system of Quality Control aimed at
      achieving expertise in the certification of processes.
      Establishing Sound Mechanisms for Transparency and Accountability: Under this area, some
      progress has been achieved. Indeed, it has been a tradition for DNV to prepare and publish (or
      more recently to post on its web site) annual reports, in which an account of its performance in the
      use of its budget allocations is made. However, there is room for improvements, particularly in
      highlighting outcomes, the most important of which are the riding quality of the network, and the
      degree of satisfaction of the road users. A Request for an Expression of Interest from Consultants
      is already being prepared for carrying out a road user satisfaction survey, including the design of
      an adequate rating index. Regarding the Code of Ethics, it has been prepared by DNV and
      officially adopted through a Resolution signed by DNV's General Manager, dated November 16,
      2010 and will be posted on the web page of the Institution.
      Strengthening of DNV's Capacity for addressing Environmental Issues: The following
      actions were taken (i) the update of the Environmental Manual (MEGA); (ii) the financing with
      the Loan funds of the organization of the Eight Symposium of Latin American Environmental
      Units (SLUAT) in Buenos Aires; and (iii) the training of DNV's environmental unit staff, through
      their participation to the Ninth Symposium of Latin American Environmental Units.
      Analysis of the Road Sector Financing Issues: That study was carried out under the project.
      Also a study on a Strategic Plan for Territorial Development was also completed, that will assist
      the Secretary of Public Works in devising mechanisms to ensure efficiency and accountability in
      the ways funds are allocated to different programs and regions in the country.

Bridge Management System and Bridge Rehabilitation. At appraisal, the expectation that a Bridge
Management System (BMS) designed to systematically prioritize expenditures on bridge rehabilitation
and maintenance would be fully operational by the end of 2008 was optimistic. However, at the revised
project closing date of August 31, 2010, the design of the system (SIGMA) - that started in September
2006 - was complete and was being implemented in six provinces within the northern part of the country
where 14 percent of the total bridge network is concentrated. While data collection is being pursued on
the rest of the network it is expected that by the end of 2012 DNV will have a fully operational system
capable of assessing the needs of its entire bridge network.

With regards to the rehabilitation of 5 priority bridges, albeit with some delay (due to difficulties
experienced in designing and bidding the works), four contracts including 5 bridges were finally
tendered and awarded in 2009. Civil works on those bridges are being undertaken with two of them near
completion. Overall, by August 31, 2010, about 57 percent of the works were completed. Once the
other three bridges are completed (with local funds) 100 percent of the appraisal target will be achieved.

Enhancing Road Safety. Through this component and under the large-scale integrated road safety
strategy, DNV has executed: (i) contracts for the technical design of two of the pilot corridors; and (ii)
communications/educational road safety campaigns in the road safety corridors with the assistance of
the Argentine Road Association. Works for these pilot corridors have been re-scheduled to take place
during the APL2, given delays occurred in the procurement and completion of the designs. It is also
worth mentioning that a National Road Safety Agency has been created providing the institutional
framework to coordinate actions among different jurisdictions and support DNV's activities in the road




                                                   13
safety corridors. Regarding the works on the black spots, four interventions and 310 km of horizontal
marking (mainly on CREMA networks) had been carried out at project closing.

3.3 Efficiency

Whwn addressing the specific issue of this project's efficiency, it is interesting to mention that a number
of international sources have confirmed that performance-based contracts are, in general, more cost-
effective than the conventional ad-measurement types of contracts. In the particular case of the CREMA
in Argentina, an empirical study comparing the unit costs of the rehabilitation works of the CREMA to
those obtained from the traditional unit-price contracts in Argentina showed that the long-term
performance-based system has an overall cost effectiveness of about 24%. Indeed, assuming that for
similar pavement surface and traffic conditions, overlay thickness is in the range of 4 to 6 cm, the
traditional unit price contract from best bids would be on average 15 percent lower than the price quoted
in CREMA bids for similar roughness level after rehabilitation. However, for the same price, the
CREMA incorporates a number of additional features that would normally be separately priced under a
traditional ad-measurement type of contract for an amount equivalent to about 39%12. The results of
that empirical assessment were also corroborated by a theoretical study using the HDM-4 Model to
evaluate the cost effectiveness and cost efficiency of the CREMA in terms of the economic benefits that
are accrued not only to the highway agency, but also to road users over a 2-years analysis period: the
study showed that in terms of cost effectiveness (i.e., better outcome expressed in terms of maximum
NPV for a given solution or investment level) the CREMA is, on average, 15 percent more cost effective
than traditional contracts, for conditions akin to those prevailing on the non-concessioned paved network
in Argentina. Another result form the analysis is that cost effectiveness is reduced as the overlay
thickness increases, and that for the current condition of the argentine paved network, and unless traffic
volume is high (above 2,000 vehicles/day) cost effectiveness is severely affected when overlay thickness
exceed a threshold of 5 to 6 cm.

3.3.1 Final Project Cost of the CREMA component

At closing, the actual cost of the CREMA program carried out under the APL1, exceeded by a factor of
about 2 the original cost expected at appraisal, for the following reasons:

 i. In the CREMA contracts financed by the Bank's loan the total increase in cost is about 91 percent
    (from an original expected unit cost of about US$ 58,000/km to a final cost of US$ 105,000/km).
    This increase is attributed essentially to higher bid prices compared to the official estimates (about
    18 percent overall) and to the increase of road works prices that occurred between bidding and the
    completion of the works (about 68 percent overall). Design standards in terms of overlay thickness
    (about 5 cm) and coverage of the rehabilitation component were executed almost as contemplated at
    appraisal (coverage of rehabilitated sections increased from about 65% to about 70% causing an
    increase in cost of about 5 percent).
ii. In the CREMA contracts financed with local funds a much larger increase has occurred, as the costs
    have been multiplied by a factor of about 4 (from an appraisal estimated unit cost of US$ 33,000/km
    to a final cost of about US$ 128,000/km). That is mainly due to a substantial increase in the
    rehabilitation standards finally adopted by DNV. Indeed, while bid prices and inflation represent
    about 12 percent and 75 percent above original estimates respectively, the bulk of the increase is
12
   Including variation orders due to modifications of the original contract during execution that are not permitted under a CREMA (about
16 percent) and the carrying out of detailed engineering study and quality auto-control by the Contractor as specified under a CREMA
(about 6 percent).




                                                                  14
     attributed to enhanced rehabilitation standards. Originally, the appraisal designs included applying
     thin resurfacing overlays (from slurry seals to 3 cm asphalt concrete) over about 30 percent of the
     total length of the contracts, while the average thickness of asphalt concrete overlays actually
     executed was about 6 cm over nearly 55 percent of the total length of the contracts. In addition, the
     quantities of expensive items in the routine maintenance component, such as pothole patching and
     crack sealing, instead of being reduced to account for the more comfortable overlay design standards
     were overestimated, causing an explosion in the unit cost of this component: from an acceptable
     level of about US$ 4,000/km/year to an actual US$ 6,000 to 7,000/km/year13.

Although the overly conservative design of the locally-financed CREMAs was not objectionable from a
technical point of view (or from an economical point of view when compared to the thinner asphalt
overlay contemplated at appraisal), it had two perverse effects, namely: (i) it reduced considerably the
total length of CREMAs achieved under the locally-financed system and prevented the realization of a
much larger final coverage under the project; and (ii) it affected the economic efficiency of the
government investment efforts, as evidenced by the HDM Model evaluations made throughout project
design and implementation, showing that the optimum thickness of overlay for the network under
consideration is in the order of 4 to 5 cm (and not 6 or 7 cm as applied during execution). Intense and
prolonged discussions on this issue took place between the Bank and DNV during 2008- 2010, that led
to some improvements in the design of subsequent locally financed CREMAs.

3.3.2 Ex-Post Economic Evaluation

CREMA Component. Considering the large cost increases that occurred during the execution of the
CREMA component, an ex-post economic evaluation was carried out to verify whether the investments
made under the component would still yield acceptable returns. Notwithstanding the observations made
in the previous paragraph, the updated economic analysis indicated that the Internal Economic Rate of
Return (IERR) remained acceptable in the order of 48 percent compared to an appraisal weighted
average of about 40 percent. Likewise, the revised Net Present Value (NPV) is in the order of US$
149,390/km compared to an appraisal weighted average of about US$ 49,521/km. The higher rates of
return obtained from the ex-post economic evaluation can be explained by a combination of two factors:
(i) the thicker and greater coverage of overlays used for the locally financed CREMA, as compared to
the appraisal design, resulted in much lower roughness value after rehabilitation (typically 1.8 IRI),
hence in much lower vehicle operating costs for the with-project case than initially anticipated; and (ii)
while the cost of road works increased substantially since the appraisal ( by nearly 100 percent), the cost
of operating a vehicle in Argentina (costs of new vehicles, tires, spare parts, fuel, and wages) increased
by a much larger factor (between 150 and 200 percent), and as a result the net benefits accrued from
carrying out the project, as compared to the without-project case, were also much larger than anticipated
at appraisal. Further details about the revised economic evaluation are given in Annex 3 (including a
comparison in the evolution of Vehicles Operating Costs and Road Works Costs between 2004 and
2009).

Bridge Component. A new economic evaluation was also carried out for the bridge component, since
the five bridges actually rehabilitated were different from those identified at appraisal and for which an
economic analysis was carried out at the time. The results of the new evaluation (see Annex 3) show
13
  Locally-financed CREMAs executed under the APL2 would show an even higher increase in costs compared to appraisal estimates:
nearly US$ 250,000/km against an original estimate of US$ 33,000/km (i.e. a seven-fold increase in cost). While cumulative price increase
of road works had reached almost 100 percent, and bid prices remained at about 12 percent above official estimates, the sharp difference
was essentially due to DNV adopting much higher rehabilitation standards (average overlay thickness of 7 cm over nearly 90% of the total
length of the contract) with unit routine maintenance cost skyrocketing to an average of US$ 8,000/km/year (with peaks of US$
10,000/km/year).




                                                                  15
that the returns obtained from the actual investments are high: the new IERR is 21.1 percent compared
to an appraisal estimate of 38.1 percent. Likewise, the revised NPV is US$ 4.4 million compared to an
appraisal estimate of US$ 14.7 million. The decline in economic returns is explained by the increase in
the unit cost of rehabilitation works ­ from US$ 11, 200/linear meter to US$ 26,800/linear meter - that
resulted from price increases in the road sector (about 100 percent) and from modifications in the design
standards (about 40 percent).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory, for the following reasons. The objectives set out
at the time of appraisal remained relevant not only throughout project implementation period but also to
the pillars of the most recent CAS agreed between the Bank and the Government for the period of 2010-
2012. Albeit with some delays and minor shortcomings, the project was largely executed as planned and
substantially achieved its two development objectives. Finally, and despite the significant increase in
project costs that was largely due to price increases and enhanced rehabilitation standards, the economic
efficiency of the project-financed investments remained acceptable.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. As mentioned in Section3.2, forty-
one percent of investments made under the CREMA component are located in the poorest provinces of
the country. It can therefore be expect that this level of investment will foster economic growth, reduce
inequality, and help develop Small and Medium Enterprises while playing a critical role in job creation
and reduction of poverty.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening. Throughout this report, it has been shown that one of the
project components was to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Road Agency. In that regard,
considerable progress has been achieved and the agency is making progress towards becoming a results-
client oriented institution. In addition, the creation of the National Road Safety Agency is a positive
outcome for the sector. In the early stages of the preparation of this project the Bank had the
opportunity of initiating a dialogue with the Government on the importance of having a higher-level
road safety agency to play a coordinating role across sectors to organize activities that go beyond the
normal span of DNV (regarding enforcement, education, health related activities, etc.).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative). Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

While CREMA continues to be a very relevant road asset management model to maintain roads in good
condition, there are some factors that could jeopardize its effectiveness. Moderate risk rating is therefore



                                                    16
contingent to performance under APL2 to address the following events, which if not mitigated,
constitute a particular cause for concern to maintain the coverage of the system and meet the ultimate
goal of putting under CREMA the entire non-concessioned 22,000 km-long paved network:

 i. Lack of timely preparation and tender of new bids 14 . Considering the current status of bid
    preparation, very few bids are expected to be launched in 2011.By the end of 2011 - beginning of
    2012, there will only be about 3,500 km CREMA under execution (mainly routine maintenance).
    The above shortcomings are not due to financial constraints, since DNV's annual budget
    allocations over the last three years have continued to increase, being on average in the order of
    US$ 2 billion. During the last supervision mission DNV's higher management agreed that there
    was an urgent need to expedite the design and preparation of new bidding documents for the 34
    contracts that came to term in 2009-10 and to start discussion on and preparation for a new Bank
    loan that would help to finance these new contracts.
ii. DNV's tendency to adopt overly conservative designs and unrealistic routine maintenance unit
    costs in the CREMAs financed by the government. Currently, in Argentina each additional cm of
    asphalt concrete overlay above the optimum economic thickness costs in the order of US$
    20,000/km, representing about US$3 million in a typical 150-km long CREMA contract. In
    addition, adopting unreasonable quantities for maintenance activities such as pothole patching and
    crack sealing that would not occur on a recently rehabilitated pavement and thus would not be
    carried out by the Contractor - while paid to him on a lump-sum basis - would have an important
    impact on the cost-efficiency of the contract and could add up to about US$ 2 million for a
    particular contract assignment.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

At entry, the project was well prepared and had well conceived objectives and components that were
highly relevant to the main goals of the CAS developed by the Bank and the Government at the time of
its appraisal and later during its implementation. Lessons learned from previous operations were duly
incorporated in the project design, while appropriate measures were contemplated to mitigate the risks
identified during project preparation. The rating falls short of being highly satisfactory because there
were minor shortcomings at appraisal, namely: (i) the overoptimistic targets regarding the pace at which
the institutional renewal plan for DNV could be implemented; and (ii) the lack of a specific and well-
defined target regarding the number of kilometers of new CREMA to be implemented during the first
phase of the program (APL1). On the other hand, failure to have predicted the disappointing response of
the market to the first round of bids launched in 2005 as well as the high rate of inflation starting the
same year (both of which plagued project implementation) was quite understandable in the aftermath of
serious economic crisis that hit the country in 2002.


14
   By September 2010, nearly 6,000 km of CREMAs that were tendered and awarded under this loan (and the previous 4295-AR loan)
came to term, and for lack of timely preparation of new bids, the maintenance component of those contracts had to be extended for another
year. In contrast with the period of 2004-2008, over which a sustained pace of bidding and contracting of CREMA took place (between 10
and 34 bidding processes per year, with 13 to 19 contracts initiated annually), only seven bids were launched over the two-year period of
2009-2010 and only 7 contracts were initiated (5 under Bank financing and 2 under local financing).




                                                                  17
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) frequent supervision missions (14
ISRs filed between November 30, 2004 and November 30, 2010 representing about 2 missions per
year); (ii) prompt and sound identification of implementation problems such as the unexpected outcome
of the 2005 bidding process that led to the design and execution of a comprehensive action plan, which
helped to resolve the procurement problem and substantially improve the outcomes of subsequent
bidding; (iii) the proactive role of the project team in carrying out critical analyses of the overlay designs
used for the Bank-financed component that led to more cost-effective solutions being used, as compared
to locally financed CREMA; (iv) the decision to carry out independent technical audits of the CREMA
contracts under execution that helped to identify shortcomings in the execution or control of the works
that were timely brought to DNV's attention; such audits being carried out by a seasoned and
experienced local highway consultant who audited about 17 contracts, representing about 30 percent of
the totality of contracts awarded and in execution between 2007 and 2009; ( v) the fundamental role
played by the supervision team in ensuring the adequate transition arrangements that led to the design
and approval of the second phase of the program; and (vi) the prompt identification and quick reaction
to implementation delays that led senior management to approve and grant two extensions for the
closing date of the project, thus ensuring a satisfactory achievement of project development objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory rating proposed for the overall Bank performance is based on the ratings given to each
of the two dimensions assessed above - quality at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Both during preparation and implementation of the operation, the Government showed strong ownership
and commitment to achieving project development objectives. Once the loan agreement was signed, the
first action taken was to increase DNV's budget allocations beyond expectations and throughout project
implementation; annual allocated resources reached unprecedented levels five-fold historical allocations
in dollar terms. That not only helped to mitigate the perverse effect of inflation on the cost of road
works, but also enabled DNV to finance the much-enhanced rehabilitation standards adopted for the
Treasury-financed CREMA, in addition to significant achievements made over the last five years on the
national network development and capacity increase programs. The second action taken by the
government was to process timely and adequately the transitional arrangements that led to the approval
and realization of the second phase of the project (APL2).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                     18
During project preparation, DNV performed well in carrying out diligently all the surveys that enabled
the design of the first round of CREMA bids, and in implementing the action plans aimed at
strengthening further the financial and procurement management capacity of the entity. During the early
stages of project implementation, DNV also performed well in implementing the Action Plan designed
to address the procurement issues raised by the outcome of the 2005 bidding process, including the
postponement of all bids, and the improvements made in the design and cost estimates of road works as
well as in the bidding documents. Also, DNV performed well in carrying out annually the network
inventory that helped to monitor the progress and achievement of the M&E key indicators. Initially,
DNV's performance fell somewhat short in four areas: (i) the overly conservative designs adopted for
the locally-financed CREMA; (ii) substantial delays that occurred in the design and bidding of the
bridge and road safety sub-components; (iii) lack of commitment to fully and timely achieving some of
the key elements of the institutional renewal plan (such as the road user satisfaction surveys); and (iv)
slow enhancement of the capacity to increase the efficiency of procurement processes. However, in the
end, most activities were executed in a satisfactory manner, including the preparation and formal
adoption on November 16, 2010, of a Code of Ethics for the institution.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, based on the performance of the Government
and Implementing Agency.

6. Lessons Learned
The following lessons emerge from the analysis of the project:

      Factoring in project design the effects of an economic crisis. In the aftermath of a serious
      economic crisis such as the one experienced at the end of 2001, there were two aspects that affected
      project implementation: (i) the response of the construction industry heavily constrained by the
      crisis, to an increased demand for road works; and (ii) the relatively high and persistent rate of
      inflation of road work prices in the country. Under such circumstances increased fiduciary risks
      occur due to the market/industry modus operandi rather that to specific project conditions. Besides
      factoring these two aspects15, some lessons to be learned from this experience include: (i) the need
      to develop adequate tools for the early detection of market distorsions; and (ii) the importance of
      maintaining a sound dialogue with country partners when addressing sensitive governance issues, in
      order to avoid creating additional tension and making the process more disruptive than needed.
      Need to recognize the complexity of certain participatory procedures involved in the
      implementation of any reform process aimed at transforming the modus operandi of a long-
      established agency, and using adequate instruments to better accommodate the evolving
      institutional agenda. In retrospect, the delays suffered during the implementation of the large-scale
      road safety initiative, the bridge management system and/or the institutional renewal component
      were partially due to a failure to recognize at appraisal that some activities required cumbersome
      coordination efforts, lacked the institutional champion to move them forward, and/or were to be

15
   For instance, building the required capacity to understand the market in which the road sector operate to better design projects, plan
activities and enhance competition, transparency and cost-efficiency in the procurement of works; carrying out a study on the road
construction industry capacity, foresee higher percentages of contingencies in the project costs and in the Loan Agreement.




                                                                  19
      affected by a shift in priorities16. As such, this type of innovations are better addressed under an
      APL approach. Project design should take into account the time-consuming efforts behind this
      initiatives and rather than expect for them to be implemented during the first phase of the program,
      make use of the flexibility of a two-phase APL allowing sufficient time for a better staged start-up
      activities and mobilization in general.
      The need to ensure that preliminary designs for CREMA projects have balanced rehabilitation
      and maintenance standards commensurate to surface and traffic characteristics of the network,
      avoiding unnecessarily conservative solutions that could deviate from the optimum strategy and
      jeopardize the cost-efficiency of the system. Executing agencies have a tendency to adopt overly
      conservative rehabilitation/construction solutions that reduce the burden of future maintenance. In
      general, such a policy does not represent the optimum economic solution for society and care
      should be taken at the design stage or during implementation to ensure that rehabilitation solutions
      are commensurate with network surface condition, traffic characteristics, and budget constraints.
      Equally important is to adequately establish the routine maintenance activities required over the
      entire network, considering the extent of the rehabilitation works carried out, to avoid excessive
      increases in the costs of this activity. Unreasonable quantities assumed for activities such as pothole
      patching and crack sealing that will not occur on a recently rehabilitated pavement and will not be
      carried out by the Contractor, while paid to him on a lump-sum basis, will have an important impact
      in the cost-efficiency of the contract.
      Usefulness of independent technical audits as a valuable tool for the monitoring of contractors
      and supervision of performance during the execution of CREMA program. In addition to the
      regular supervision missions, the independent performance audits carried on a random sample of
      CREMAs each year helped to: (i) verify that works were being executed in accordance with the
      contractual program of activities in terms of substance, progress and quality; (ii) detect and report,
      through additional testing, any deficiency or non-compliance with the specifications and to check
      whether or not appropriate penalties have been applied when warranted and as mandated by the
      contract; (iii) check that payments to the Contractor were made in accordance with the terms and
      condition of the contract; and (iv) recommend any measures or actions deemed as necessary to
      improve the design, costing, and execution of the CREMA system.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies. No comments were made.

(b) Cofinanciers. Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders. Not applicable




16
   For instance: (i) a change in DNV's top managers as the project began to be implemented introduced certain skepticism with regards the
scope and ownership of the institutional renewal plan; (ii) in the case of the road safety component, some of the activities (education
campaigns, enforcement measures, etc) are not functions normally under DNV's jurisdiction and its implementation requires a coordinated
approach among all the institutions involved; (iii) the sensitivity of the human resources diagnostic required lengthy consultations with
DNV's labor unions.




                                                                  20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                                     Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                                       Appraisal Estimate            Estimate USD            variation vs
                   Component                             USD million                    million               Appraisal
 Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
 CREMA                                                         286.1                       682                   138%

 Bank-Financed                                                  247                        545

 Treasury-financed                                              39.1                       137
 Bridge Restoration                                             10.7                       6.6                   -38%
 Bridge Restoration                                             10.5                       6.6

 Studies (Engineering designs and/or
 Technical Assistance BMS)                                      0.2                         0
 Road Safety                                                    5.8                        6.5                    12%
 Pilot Corridors                                                2.8                        0.8
 Design Large-Scale Road Safety Initiative                      0.2                       0.45
 Road Safety Upgrade (Works)                                     2                          0
 Studies (Engineering Designs)                                  0.6                       0.36
 Road Safety Black Spots                                         3                         5.7
 Road Safety Upgrading (Works)                                  2.4                        5.7
 Studies (engineering Designs)                                  0.6                         0
 Institutional Renewal                                          3.5                       1.74                   -50%
 Consultants Services/Technical Assistance                       3                        1.22
 Training                                                       0.1                       0.20
 Equipment                                                      0.2                       0.22
 Project Management Unit (PCU)                                 0.50                       0.10
 Total Project Costs                                           306.1                      696.8                  128%
 Front-End-Fee                                                   2                          1
 Total Cost (including Front-end-fee)                          308.1                      697.8                  127%



(b) Financing

                                                                              Appraisal           Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                           Type of
                 Source of Funds                                              Estimate              Estimate           variation vs
                                                         Cofinancing
                                                                            (USD million)         (USD million)         Appraisal
Borrower                                                                       108.1                 206.3                91%
IBRD                                                                            200                  197.9                 -1%
N.B: The financing gap of US$ 293.6 million is being financed through additional funds from the Treasury and from the follow-up project
(APL2) Bank Loan.




                                                                  21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
  Objective/Outcome              Expected Output at Appraisal                         Achieved under APL1,
                                                                                     at closing Aug. 31, 2010
CREMA Coverage             14,182 Km (intended target, yet not formally   12,664 Km (89% of appraisal)
                           revised in Loan Agreement).
                           40% in poorest provinces                       5,163 km (41%)in poorest provinces
Institutional Renewal      Institutional Renewal Action Plan              Activities in the majority of components
                           implemented                                    substantially achieved, although sometimes below
                                                                          targets. To be pursued during APL2
     Components                  Expected Output at Appraisal                            Achieved under APL1,
                                                                                         at closing Aug. 31, 2010
CREMA                       Improve road network condition, through:
                           Average IRI in 2006 < 3.9
                                                                          Average IRI = 3.12
                           Average IRI over period 2004-2010 < 4          IRI in 2005 = 3.48, IRI in 2006 = 3.27, IRI in 2007
                                                                          = 3.29, IRI in 2008 = 3.28, IRI in 2009 = 3.12
Bridges                       Improve bridge network evaluation and
                                         condition, through:              BMS in operation for 250 bridges in most critical
                           BMS in operation                               condition
                           5 priority bridges rehabilitated               5 priority bridges being rehabilitated (about 57% of
                                                                          works are completed)
Road Safety                 Improve road Safety in the country, through
                           Monitoring system developed on pilot
                           corridors                                      Monitoring system developed
                           Education campaigns designed                   Education campaigns designed
                           Institutional arrangements for road safety     National Agency for Road Safety created by Law,
                           developed                                      and in operation
                           Improve 6 critical black-spots                 4 black spots improved
                           310 km of horizontal marking executed on       310 km of horizontal marking executed through
                           national roads                                 CREMA contracts on national roads
Institutional Renewal of   Short-run Human Resources plan                 Human Resources Diagnosis completed. Short-
DNV                        implemented                                    term training program being designed.
                                                                          Implementation of Action Plan to continue during
                                                                          APL2
                           Adopt Road Sector Financing study              Road Sector Financing study, and strategic study
                           recommendations                                for Territorial Development completed.
                           Code of Ethics for DNV developed               Code of Ethics finally prepared at project
                                                                          completion and formally adopted on Nov.16, 2010
                           Performance indicators for DNV and             Some progress has been achieved. To be pursued
                           dissemination mechanisms developed             and amplified out during the APL2
                           Road Users Satisfaction Index developed        Little progress. Technical Assistance being
                                                                          contracted. Expected to be carried out during the
                                                                          APL2
                           Strengthen Division of Environment             Environmental Manual updated. Training of staff
                                                                          implemented. Funding of VIIth SLUAT in Buenos
                                                                          Aires with loan proceeds
                           Modernize technology within DNV                Modern computers network procured; Soils
                                                                          Laboratory new equipment procured; state-of-the-
                                                                          art axle-load control system designed. To be
                                                                          pursued during the APL2
                           Streamline DNV processes in management,        Consultant contracted for diagnosis of procurement
                           procurement, etc.                              processes; recommendations being analyzed by
                                                                          DNV




                                                               22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
CREMA Component

The economic analysis to confirm the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) and the Net Present
Value (NPV) established at appraisal using the Bank's HDM model was carried out by the Planning
Department of DNV, using the same model. The ex-post evaluation covered a sample of 15 CREMA
networks, belonging to both the Bank-financed and Treasury-financed contracts. To be representative,
the sample of networks was selected with the following criteria in mind: (i) the rehabilitation and
maintenance works were practically completed at the time of the evaluation (at least 90 percent
completed); (ii) they would cover different geographic areas of the country (15 provinces out of a total
of 23); and (iii) their total length would be equal to at least 30 percent of the total length of new
contracts financed under the project and under execution (2,770 km out of 8,499 km, i.e., 33 percent).

The following factors that would mainly affect the results of the analyses ­ as compared to appraisal -
were revised and updated:
     The actual cost of the works, incorporating increases that occurred as a result of inflation, bid
        prices, and design adjustments;
     The dates or periods at which the rehabilitation components of the contracts were actually
        executed and completed (start-up year);
     The costs of vehicles operation during the period of implementation of the capital works (as
        established in DNV's V.O.C Manual, COSTOP);
     The actual condition of the pavements (roughness, and other surface defects) and levels of
        traffic measured, prior to rehabilitation;
     The actual rehabilitation standards or overlay thickness executed; and
     The actual roughness measured after rehabilitation (as obtained from the various independent
        technical audits carried out by the Bank, i.e., IRI generally equal to 1.8)

Otherwise, all other meaningful factors were kept unchanged in the evaluation: (i) the analysis period
was 20 years; (ii) economic costs remained at about 70.7 percent of financial costs; (iii) annual traffic
growth rate after rehabilitation remained at 3 percent for all types of vehicles; (iv) no generated traffic or
exogenous benefits were taken into account; (v) the discount rate remained at 12 percent; (v) the base
scenario or without project case consisted in a standard routine maintenance policy with 100 percent
patching followed by reconstruction works when the IRI reaches 8 IRI; (vi) future maintenance policy
for the with-project case consisted in routine maintenance (100 percent of potholes patched) and
applying a 5 cm-thick overlay when roughness reaches 4 IRI.

The results of the updated economic evaluation are summarized in the following Table. They show that
the revised weighted average Economic Internal Rate of Return IERR is 48 percent compared to a
weighted average of 40 percent obtained at appraisal, with a NPV, at 12 percent discount rate, in the
order of US$ 149,390/km as compared to a weighted average of US$ 49,521/km obtained at appraisal.

The higher rates of return obtained from the ex-post economic evaluation can be explained by a
combination of two factors: (i) the thicker and greater coverage of overlays used for the locally financed
CREMA, as compared to the appraisal design, resulted in much lower roughness value after




                                                     23
rehabilitation (typically 1.8 IRI), hence in much lower vehicle operating costs for the with-project case
than initially anticipated; and (ii) while the cost of road works increased substantially since the appraisal
( by nearly 100 percent), the cost of operating a vehicle in Argentina (costs of new vehicles, tires, spare
parts, fuel, and wages) increased by a much larger factor (between 150 and 200 percent), and as a result
the net benefits accrued from carrying out the project, as compared to the without-project case, were also
much larger than anticipated at appraisal.

                                                                                             Comparing Evolution of Vehicle Operating Costs and Road
                                                                                                works Costs in Argentina between 2004 and 2009
                                                                                           4.5
                                                                                            4
                                                                                           3.5




                                                            E v o lu t io n o f C o s ts
                                                                                            3
                                                                                           2.5
                                                                                            2
                                                                                           1.5
                                                                                            1
                                                                                           0.5
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            2003    2004   2005    2006     2007   2008    2009    2010
                                                                                                                         Year
                                                                                                                                                          VOC
                                                                                                                                                          Roadw orks


Bridge component

At appraisal, a set of five priority bridges to be rehabilitated was selected under the project (Rio San
Lorenzo, Arroyo San Antonio, Perico y Arroyos, Corrientes, and Guayquiro). However, during project
implementation, because of difficulties experienced in the design and/or bidding processes of some of
the bridges that delayed the procurement plan of some of these bridges, DNV opted for financing some
of these bridges with its own funds and the selection of another set of five bridges that were equally in
urgent need of repair or replacement and were finally rehabilitated under the first phase of the program.
As shown in the following Table, the economic evaluation carried out for the new set of bridges
indicates that the economic return obtained from the investments is high: the revised IERR is 21 percent
against an appraisal estimate of 38.1 percent. The revised NPV at a 12 percent discount rate now stands
at US$ 4.4 million, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$ 14.7 million. The lower returns are
mainly due to the shorter total length of bridges rehabilitated and to the increase in the cost of bridge
works from 2004 to 2010.

             Table 1-a: CREMA component (2010 Evaluation on a sample of contracts)
        Malla (or                Length,                                                           NPV        NPV               CAP
                      Province             Financing   IERR %                                                                             NPV/CAP
        contract)                  km                                                              US$M     US$M/km             US$M
      102B           Chubut        230       Bank       50.42                                      10.73      0.05               4.43       2.42
      103            Rio           164       Bank       108.11                                     46.16      0.28               8.54       5.41
                     Negro
      104            La Pampa      128       Bank           30.98                                  6.15           0.05          3.08        2.00
      404            Salta         149       Bank           28.93                                  13.36          0.09          7.7         1.74
      301            San Luis      236       Bank           45.87                                  26.97          0.11          7.12        3.79
      312            Mendoza       219       Bank           21.65                                  5.18           0.02          5.63        0.92




                                                       24
         431                   Sgo del             252           Bank             40.43        42.04            0.17         15.1           2.78
                               Estero
         437                   Tucuman             101          Bank              89.01       112.54          1.11          12.41           9.07
         133                   Neuquen             181          Bank              21.75        4.03           0.02          11.23           0.36
         Total Bank                               1,660         Bank              45.2        267.15         0.1609         75.25           3.55
         501                   Corrientes          144         Treasury           33.02       13.62           0.09          6.86            1.99
         513C                  Entre               83          Treasury           74.00       16.62            0.2          7.13            2.33
                               Rios
         309                   La Rioja            301         Treasury           22.38        14.99            0.05        14.46           1.04
         432                   Jujuy               219         Treasury           71.58        25.10            0.11        11.95           2.1
         603                   Tierra del          178         Treasury           32.23        23.57            0.13        15.62           1.51
                               Fuego
         234                   Buenos              125         Treasury           59.90        43.78            0.35        20.07           2.18
                               Aires
         Total Local                              1,050       Treasury            48.9        137.69        0.13113          76.09          1.81
         TOTAL/AVG                                2,710                           48.03       404.85          0.149         151.34          2.68


                                                      Table 1-b: BRIDGE Component

                                                                               Investment              Traffic                           NPV
               Bridge            Length, m                Works                                                         IERR %
                                                                                 US$M                   ADT                              US$M
           Arroyo San                 25             Reconstruction               1.11                  2,250              20.3           0.6
           Miguel
           Rio Corinto                25             Reconstruction                2.37                   973               20              1.3
           Brazo                      75             Reconstruction
           Corinto
           Rio Huayco                 90             Reconstruction                2.22                   860              20.3             1.4
           Arroyo 1er                 60             Reconstruction                1.67                  1,600             24.2             1.1
           Coronda
           Total                      275           Reconstruction                 7.37                  1,420             21.1             4.4
Note: At appraisal, five other bridges were selected and had a total cumulative length of about 950 meters, for a total estimated cost of US$ 10.7 million.
The average IERR was 38.1% and the NPV was US$ 14.7 million.




                                                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                                           Responsibility/
             Names                                  Title                      Unit
                                                                                             Specialty
Lending (The system pulls from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet, if any.)

Supervision/ICR
Marcelo Hector Acerbi              Environmental Spec.                       LCSEN
Roberto Daniel Agosta              Consultant                                TWITR
Antonio Leonardo Blasco            Sr Financial Management Specialist        LCSFM
Vickram Cuttaree                   Senior Infrastructure Economist           ECSS5
Jose Luis Irigoyen                 Senior Manager                            AFTSN
 Gerard L. Liautaud                Consultant                                LCSTR
 Ricardo Eduardo Lugea             Senior Procurement Specialist             LCSPT
 Andres Mac Gaul                   Senior Procurement Specialist             LCSPT
 Reynaldo F. Pastor                Chief Counsel                             LEGLA
 Lilian Pedersen                   E T Consultant                            LCSSO
 Graciela Sanchez Martinez         Social Development and Civil S            LCSSO
 Geise B. Santos                   Program Assistant                         LCSEN
Maria Marcela Silva                Task Team Leader                          LCSTR
 Alejandro Roger Solanot           Financial Management Specialist           LCSFM
 Marco Antonio Zambrano Chavez     Consultant                                LCSUW

(b) Staff Time and Cost (The system pulls data available for all fields)

                                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
          Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD Thousands (including travel
                                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                                                    and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                33                                187.98
  FY05                                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                                    0.00
                                   Total:             33                                187.98
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                16                                 92.30
  FY06                                                13                                 99.55
  FY07                                                25                                122.02
  FY08                                                15                                102.51
  FY09                                                 4                                  0.00
                                   Total:             73                                416.38




                                                     26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                     28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
On December 17, 2010 DNV submitted the Borrower's ICR. The Report is in Project Files. A summary
of said ICR, submitted on January 6, 2011 follows.

                                     REPUBLICA ARGENTINA
                                DIRECCION NACIONAL DE VIALIDAD

                                        PROYECTO
                         GESTION DE ACTIVOS DE VIALIDAD NACIONAL

                                            PRESTAMO 7242 AR

                              INFORME EJECUTIVO DE CIERRE FINAL
                                      DICIEMBRE DE 2010.

OBJETIVOS del PROYECTO
La finalidad general del programa fue consolidar gradualmente una estrategia de gestión eficaz de la red
vial, generando parte de los recursos necesarios para preservar la red vial nacional en el largo plazo. El
Proyecto propuesto se basó en los logros alcanzados en proyectos anteriores (3611 y 4295), también
financiados por el Banco, y tuvo como objetivo principal preservar el estado de los activos viales.
Otros objetivos fueron la incorporación de una gestión de puentes sistematizada y abordar temas de
seguridad vial.

INDICADORES CLAVE
                                                                                               METAS
                                                                                    Definida         Alcanzada
        Longitud de la Red Pavimentada no concesionada incluída en el Sistema   14.182            12.665
        CREMA. (Km)
        Implementación de un Sistema de Gestión de Puentes.                     Funcionamiento    Funcionamiento
                                                                                total             Parcial
        Adopción de medidas en el marco del Plan de Acción de Renovación        Varias            Parcialmente
        Institucional.

COMPONENTES FÍSICOS

          Rehabilitación y mantenimiento de las carreteras mediante los Contratos C.Re.Ma. En
          esta actividad, que consideramos la mas importante del Proyecto, la meta lograda al fin del
          APL1 fue del 89 % de la prevista si consideramos los Km. cubiertos con este sistema de
          contratación. Todo esto con el uso del 100 % de los fondos disponibles en la categoría

          Las obras tuvieron mayores costos finales respecto a las previsiones hechas en el Appraisal,
          fundamentalmente debido a dos factores principales: i) la adopción de soluciones técnicas
          mayores a las previstas en las Mallas CREMA con financiación local y ii) el aumento del costo
          de la obra vial en Argentina por los incrementos en materiales, mano de obra y transporte,
          incremento que fue sustancialmente menor en el tipo de cambio, llegándose a mayores
          incidencias al considerar los costos en Dólares.




                                                        29
         Analizando la evolución del IRI se
         puede apreciar el impacto del Programa
         CREMA implementado. La mejora
         sostenida en la condición de las calzadas
         se refleja en la curva de evolución las
         reconstrucciones de calzada ejecutadas
         en las Mallas A1 durante los años 2005-
         2006 y en las Mallas A2 y A3 en los
         años 2008-2009, continuándose en la
         actualidad con la contratación de más
         obras.


         Restauración y Construcción de Puentes: El proyecto contemplaba dos actividades
         principales:
            1) la financiación de obras en cinco puentes en estado crítico y con urgente necesidad de
               intervención.
               Las obras se iniciaron en todos los puentes obteniéndose un avance del 57 % al cierre del
               Préstamo, completándose posteriormente su ejecución con financiación local.
            2) la implementación de un instrumento de gestión integral para dar prioridad
               sistemáticamente a las intervenciones en puentes.
               Esta actividad se inició en todos los distritos del País, obteniéndose un logro parcial que
               abarca aproximadamente el 50 % de los puentes de la red vial.
         Componente de Seguridad Vial.Se previeron dos subcomponentes:
          1) El proyecto tomó la iniciativa de realizar experiencias sobre seguridad vial estableciendo
               los mecanismos para su puesta en marcha. Esto incluye diseñar un Sistema para efectuar
               el seguimiento y la evaluación de los impactos, definir indicadores, formular campañas de
               educación, realizar diseños de ingeniería como así también las obras en tres corredores
               propuestos.
               La actividad llegó a iniciar y dejar casi concluida la etapa de proyecto en dos corredores,
               quedando pendiente la ejecución de las obras en la siguiente etapa del Proyecto (APL2).
            2) Además se financiarían obras puntuales en 6 puntos críticos identificados de la red vial,
               para mejorar la seguridad vial y la demarcación horizontal sobre 310 km. de rutas.
               Se concretaron totalmente las obras en 4 intersecciones de rutas Nacionales y se ejecutó
               la señalización horizontal en los contratos CREMA en una longitud sensiblemente mayor
               a la prevista.

RENOVACIÓN INSTITUCIONAL DE LA DNV.

Como objetivos principales el proyecto financiaría asistencia técnica encaminada a: (i) identificar las
necesidades de la DNV en términos de recursos humanos, e implementar un plan de fortalecimiento en
el corto plazo; (ii) facilitar la modernización tecnológica de la DNV; (iii) simplificar los procedimientos
administrativos que requieren mucho tiempo; (iv) fortalecer la capacidad de la DNV para abordar las
cuestiones ambientales; (v) analizar las opciones para lograr la sostenibilidad financiera a largo plazo en
el sector vial y flujos de fondos estables para el mantenimiento de caminos, y (vi) fortalecer a la UCP
para que preste asistencia a la DNV en la ejecución del Proyecto.




                                                     30
Las actividades conducentes a lograr estos objetivos fueron iniciadas en su mayoría aunque no se logró
concretar todo lo propuesto.

USO DE LOS FONDOS DISPONIBLES

Los montos finales desembolsados en las distintas categorías por el Banco y aportados por la DNV se
pueden apreciar en el siguiente cuadro
                                                        MONTO (en miles de
                                                                 USD)
                                                         Asigna DESEMBOL
                               CATEGORÍA                   do        SADO
                   1 CReMa Parte A1                     161.660        161.669
                   2 CReMa Parte A2                       27.870        27.834
                   3 Obras Parte B1 ­ Puentes              3.300          2.074
                   4 Obras Parte C1 y C2 ­ Seguridad       4.320          4.027
                   Vial
                   5 Bienes                                  340            132
                   6 Servicios de Consultoría              1.240            991
                   7 Capacitación                            270            148
                   8 Comisión Inicial                      1.000          1.000
                                       TOTAL            200.000        197.875

Vemos que el uso de los recursos financieros disponibles por el Banco se utilizaron en un 99 % (197,875
Millones de U$S de los 200 Millones de U$S del Préstamo). La utilización de los fondos muestra una
altísima incidencia de los componentes físicos que sumados representan el 98,8% del total de los fondos
desembolsados por el Banco.

VERIFICACION DE INDICADORES ECONÓMICOS

Con el objeto de analizar el desempeño del Proyecto luego de su ejecución, analizando los aspectos
ligados al impacto de los resultados obtenidos y la eficiencia con que se gastaron los recursos
económicos empleados en las Obras CREMA, se realizó una evaluación económica tomando una
muestra de 15 Mallas.
La muestra produjo un Valor Actual Neto, al 12% de tasa de descuento, de $AR 1.417 Millones y una
tasa de Rentabilidad Económica del 48% confirmándose que se produjo una Rentabilidad Económica
aceptable para el subcomponente C.Re.Ma. el cual representó un 95 % del total del Proyecto.

COMENTARIO FINAL

Ha habido factores externos al Proyecto que lo han afectado. Entre ellos han sido fundamentales el
hecho de que al haberse elaborado el Proyecto en el período de recuperación después de una crisis no se
pudo prever los aumentos de costos y la respuesta del mercado a los mismos. Esto trajo como
consecuencia mayores costos a los previstos.
Los temas de Seguridad Vial, exceptuando las obras puntuales, no llegaron a desarrollarse en la medida
de lo esperado, dado que se requiere más tiempo para lograr la coordinación en Seguridad Vial. Se
destaca que se continúa trabajando en el tema, y la actividad se sigue desarrollando bajo el APL2.




                                                  31
En lo que respecta a la implementación del Sistema de Gerenciamiento de Puentes el mismo se ha
iniciado, lo que ya en sí representa un logro importante. Ahora su funcionamiento total en una red tan
extensa con una cantidad importante de puentes no fue posible de llevar a cabo. Evidentemente fue
utópico pensar que se podría llegar a tener al fin del APL1 el SIGMA Puentes funcionando al 100 %.

En cuanto a la Reforma Institucional de la DNV consideramos que si bien se han logrado avances, no es
lógico que pueda llevarse a cabo en el tiempo de duración del Proyecto.
Por último queremos destacar que consideramos exitoso el desarrollo del Préstamo en cuanto a los
objetivos conseguidos y el uso de los fondos disponibles. Todo esto merced al desempeño del Banco, en
especial a los funcionarios responsables de las supervisiones, los funcionarios de la DNV y los
integrantes de la Unidad Coordinadora, quienes pusieron su empeño y conocimientos para salvar las
dificultades que se presentaron a lo largo de la implementación del Proyecto.




                                                 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Central (IRIS). Monthly and Semi-Annual Progress Reports. 2004 - 2010.

Dirección Nacional de Vialidad. Gestion 2003-2007 (Subgerencia Control de Gestion ­ Gerencia de
     Planeamiento, Investigacion y Control).

The World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy. April 2004.

The World Bank. Estrategia de Alianza con la Republica Argentina. Report No. 48476. May 2009.

The World Bank. Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions. May 2004 - November 2010.

The World Bank. Implementation Status and Results Reports (14 documents). November 2004 to
    November 2010.

The World Bank. Loan Agreement. Loan 7242-AR. December 2004.

The World Bank. Loan Agreement. National Highway Asset Management Project ­ Phase II. Loan
    7473-AR. June 2008.

The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. National Highway Asset Management Project ­ Phase II.
    Report: 39716-AR. May 2007.

The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Report: 28649-AR. May 2004.

DNV. Informe de Cierre, December 17, 2010.




                                                34
                                              70°                                                                                                                                                                                          60°                                                                                     55°
                                                                                                           B O L I V I A

                                                                                                                                                                             Pocitos
                                                                                                                                 La Cuiaca                                     86
                                                                                                                                      Aguas
                                                                                                                                     Blancas                          34

                                                                                                     JUJUY                                 San Ramon
                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                       34
                                                                                                                                                                                               81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F O             Rio                                   PA R A G U AY
                                                                                                Cauchari                                   San Salvador                                                                    R                                Pil
                                                                                                                                             de Jujuy                                                                             M               86              co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ma
                                                                                               S.A. de los                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Las Lomitas                            yo
                                                                                                 Cobres                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ná
                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                          Salta             A L T A                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Para
                                                                                                            40N                                                   Olleros                                                                                  Cmte. Fontana                                Asunción                                                                      25°
                                                                                                                                     El Tunal                                                                                                                          Clorinda
             25°                                                                                                              68                34                                                                                                                 81
                                                                                                                                 Rosario
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHACO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                               16                                                                                                                                              Pt.
                                                                                                      Cafayate                                                                                                        Las                                                                                                                    Iguazú
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Frentones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          95                   Formosa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11
                                                                                                                             TUCUMAN                                 Campo Gallo                                                            Pres. R.                                                                                                     Bernardo de Irigoyen




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ES
                                                                                                                                  Tucumán                                                                                                 Saenz Peña                                                                                              14

                                                                              CATAMARCA                                                                          SANTIAGO                                                                                                                                                                       San             B R A Z I L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16                                                                                             Vicente
                                                                                                                                                                    DEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                     38
                                                                                                                                                9           34
                                                                                                                                                                  ESTERO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Resistencia                                                                            I   SI
                                                                                                  40N
                                                                                                                                                                 Santiago del Estero
                                                                                                                                                                                                              89                                89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Corrientes                  12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Posadas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Santa                                                                         San José
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sylvina
                                                                                Tinogasta
                                                                                                     Catamarca
                                                                                                                                                      64
                                                                                                                                                    Lavalle
                                                                                                                                                                                                Añatuya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     95                                                          CORRIENTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                    Alpasinche
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SANTA                                                    P. Fernandez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Santo Tomé
                                                                                                                                                                                               34
                                                                                LA                          38
                                                                                                                                               157                   9
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rio           Tostado FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                               Chilecito                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Yapeyú
                                                                                                            La Rioja                                                                                                   S a 98                                                         119 123
                                                                                    RIOJA                                                                                                                                 l a d Vera




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pa ra ná
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o                                                                         Paso de los Libres
                                                                                    76         74
                                                                                                                                                                               Villa de María                               San                             12
            75°




                                                                              40N                                                                           60                                                            Cristobal
                                                                                            Patquía                                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R io
                                                                                         150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ay
                                                                              Jachal             Chamical                                                                                                                                                                   127
             30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sauce




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            U ru g u
                                                        P. del
                                                     Agua Negro                                                       79 77                                 38                                                                                       de Luna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rafaela
                                                            S A N J U A NChepes                                                                                      Córdoba                   Devoto
                                                                                                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Santa                                            Concordia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fé    ENTRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ri o
                                                                                San Juan
                                                                                               141
                                                                                                                                                           CORDOBA                                                                        Paraná                                 14
                                                                                                                                                      Dolores                                                                                   Villaguay
                                                                                         20            La




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50 °
                                                                                                            Quines                                                                                                                        12       Nogoyá
                                                                                40N                  Tranca                                                                            Villa María
                                                                                         142                                                                                                                                       Gral.Galarzo                                       Concepción del Uruguay
                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                          Las Cuevas
                                                                                Mendoza
                                                                                         El Alpero
                                                                                                           147
                                                                                                                              San
                                                                                                                                            148
                                                                                                                                                       Río
                                                                                                                                                                         158                                                       Rosario       RIOS
                                                                                                                                                      Cuarto                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                              Luis                                                                            Chabas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Nicolás
                                                                 Agrelo                                                                                                                8                                  178                                                                     U R U G U AY
                                         Santiago                         40S
                                                                                                                                                Mercedes                                                                                        9
                    OCEAN




                                                                    M E PareditasO Z A
                                                                        ND                                  146         SAN                                                  La Cautiva               33                                   Campana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Arrecifes   8
                                                                                                                        LUIS                                     35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Buenos Aires
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rufino                        Junín
                                                                                                           R io




                                                                       San Rafael                                                                                                    Gral.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           188                                                                              La Plata                Montevideo
                                                                                                    Gr. Alvear                Nva. Galia                                            Villegas
                                                                         40S                                                  188                          Realicó                                                                   5                                                                  Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      35°
                                                                       El Sosneado                                                                                                                                                                                                                      de la
                                                                                                                  Sa lad o




                                                                                                     143                                                                                                                                        205                                     2
             35°                                                                                                                                                                                      Pehuajo
                                                                       Malargüe                                                      Arizona                                                                                                                                                            Plata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUENOS
                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                 145                                                                                                                                                Bolívar
                                                                                               Sta. Isabel                                Telén                                            5                                AIRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Azul
                                            L




                                                                                                                                           Santa Rosa                                                                                                                       Maipú
                    PA C I F I C




                                                                                                                                                                                                      33

                                                                                                                             L A PA M PA
                                                                                                     151
                                            I




                                                     Barrancas
                                                                                                      Puelén
                                                                                                                              143
                                                                                                                              El Carancho
                                                                                                                                                Gral. Acha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AT L A N T I C
                                           H




                                                                                                                                                                                35
                                                                                                                                               152                                                                                                                                              Mar del Plata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Très Arroyos
                                                           NEUQUÉN                                                                                                       154                                                                                228             Quequén
                                          C




                                                                                                                                                        Rio       La
                                                                                                                                                                 Adela                         22             Bahia Blanca
                                                                              Neuquén
                                                      242        22                                               22                                                                Col
                                                                                                                                                                                           ora
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O C E A N
                                                                        Zapala                                               R io N e                 Choele Choel
                                                                                                                                                                                                 do
                                                                                                                                           gro
                                                                 40S          237
                                                                                                           RÍO                                                   251
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                     Collón                                                                                                          Gr. Conesa
                                                     Curá
                                                                                                     NEGRO                                                                   250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      40°
                                                                                    Sierra Colorada
              40°                                   234
                                                                                                                                                                                Viedma
                                                              Bariloche


                                                                                 Ing. Jacobacci                              Sierra Grande                               Gulf of                                                                                                                ARGENTINA
                                                                                                                                                                  San Martin
                                                     258      40S

                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AND
                                                                                                                                     Puerto Madryn                                                                                        ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                              Esquel                                                                              Trelew

                                                                                                                                                                  Rawson
                                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                                            but
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C.RE.MA. NETWORKS TO BE FINANCED BY LOAN
                                                                                                 R io C h u                                                                                                                                                                                    AND COUNTERPART FUNDS, AWARDED BETWEEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEPTEMBER 2004 AND APRIL 2005 (TOTAL 48)
                                                                                    CHUBUT
                                                                        40S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C.RE.MA. AND MODULAR NETWORKS TO BE
                                                                                                                             ico




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FINANCED BY COUNTERPART FUNDS (TOTAL 65)
                                                                                                                      Ch




                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                  o                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL ROADS                                                                           45°
                                                                                                             Ri
                                                                                                    Sarmiento                                                                                                                                                                                SELECTED RAILROADS
             45°                                                                 Rio Moyo
                                                                                                26                            Comodoro Rivadavia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PORTS
                                                                                                                                          Gulf of
                                                                                       Las Heras                                         San Jorge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AIRPORTS
                                                                                     Ri o            Des
                                                                                                           ead                       Fitz Roy
                                                                                                                  o                                                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                            281
                                                                                                                                                            Pto. Deseado                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                         S A N TA
                                                                              Las Horquetas                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                            CRUZ
                                                                                                         El Salado


                                                                                         288
            80°




                                                                              Très Lagos
                                                                                                 Cruz
                                                                               Ri o S a n ta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FALKLAND ISLANDS
                                                                              40S                                                                                                                                              (MALVINAS)
             50°
                                                                                                     3

                                                                                                             Río Gallegos
                                                                                 28 de
                                                                               Noviembre

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A DISPUTE CONCERNING SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ISLANDS EXISTS BETWEEN ARGENTINA WHICH CLAIMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THIS SOVEREIGNTY AND THE U.K. WHICH ADMINISTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THE ISLANDS.

                                                                                                                                                        TIERRA
                                                                                                                                                      DEL FUEGO                                                                                                        0                                        250                               500                           750
                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                               Ushuaia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                  55°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33291




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.
JUNE 2004




             55°


                                   80°                     75°                                                    70°                                                               65°                                                    60°                                                            55°                                      50°                                45°
