Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15253
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3133-IND)
JANUARY 22,1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency tlnit = Rupiah (Rp)
(As of July 1989)
US$1.00!= Rp 1,770
Rp I million  US$565
(As of July 1995)
US$ 1. 00 = Rp 2,246
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL. YEAR
Apnil I - March 3 I
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 39 37 inches
I kilometer (Kim) - 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -      Asian Development Bank
DGH           -      Directorate General of Highways
DGLC          -      Directorate General of Land Communications (MOC)
GOI           -      Government of Indonesia
HS 1/2        -      Highway Sector Project I/ 11
PSAP          -      Policy Statement and Action Plan
IC'B          -      International Competitive Bidding
LCB           -      Local Competitive Bidding
MOC           -      Ministry of Communications



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ......................................................................................................................................................
Evaluation summary ................................................................................................................................
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A  Statement/Fvaluation of Objectives ............................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ............................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................                                                               8
D. Project Sus4ainability ...........................                                                                            9
E. Bank Performance ............................9
F. Borrower Performance ...........................                                                                             10
G. Assessment of Outcome: ........................... 10
H. Future Operation ............................11
I. Key Lessons Learned ............................11
Part II:  STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Annex: Statistical Tables.
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                                                                        16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs .........................................                                                                           19
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................                                                                     20
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                                     21
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .........................................                                                            22
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................................                                        26
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................                                                         27
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .........................................                                                             28
Part III:  BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
Appendices:
Maps No. IBRD 25056, 25057, 25058, 25059R, and 25060
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi.hout World Bank authorization.                                    |






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan No. 3133--IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Highway Sector Project in the
Republic of Indonesia for which Loan No. 3133-IND in the amount of US$350 milion was approved
on November 14, 1989 and made effective on February 22, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995 compared to the original closing date of June 30, 1993.
The final disbursement took place on November 2, 1995, at which time the remaining balance of
US$9.88 mnillion was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Jacques Tollie, Senior Highway Engineer and Ephrem Asebe,
Consultant, EA3IN, Infrastructure Operations Division of the East Asia & Pacific Region, Country
Department IIl and reviewed by Anupam Khanna, Infrastructure Division Chief and Richard Calkins,
Project Adviser.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mnission in May 1995. It
was based on materials in the project files as well as data provided by the Borrower. The Borrower
contributed to the ICR by (i) commenting on the Bank's assessment and (ii) providing its own
evaluation of the project's execution. This is shown in Part m






ii
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan No. 3133-IND)
INDONESIA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.
i.    The Highway Sector Project (HSP), vith a loan amotmt of US$350 million, was the thirteenth road
project since assistance to the subsector in Indonesia started in 1969. Generaly, past highway projects were
focused on: (i) improving the quality of the road network through new road construction, rehabilitation, and
also in improvement and maintenance works; (ii) developing the technical capacity of the road agencies at
the central and regional level; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the road sector policy formulaion and
implementation and improving key road sector policies. Recent PCRs and PPARs prepared since 1989, the
year of approval of the project, were related to the Fifth Highway Project, the Highway Betterment Project
and Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project. An ICR was prepared for the Second Rural Roads
Development Project (Loan 2881-IND) in 1994. Overall, implementation of these projects was evaluated as
satisfactory.
Project Objectives.
ii.    The main objective of the Highway Sector Project was to assist the Govemment in improving the
overall efficiency of the road subsector by supporting its Policy Statement and Action Plan (PSAP) for road
transport and road use and comprehensive three-year expenditure plan for national and provincial roads
1989/90 to 1991/92). The specific development objectives of the project were to:
(a)    consolidate past improvements in the formulation and implementation of the highway
sector expenditures;
(b)   institute improved policies on road use;
(c)   strengthen the institutions involved in the sector;
(d)   improve the quality of the road network by focusing on maintenance and
rehabilitation/betterment works.
iii. The project essentially consisted of (i) technical assistance, studies and training to assist in the
implementation of the PSAP and the expenditure plan; and (ii) specific subprojects selected annually on the
basis of agreed procedures and economic and technical criteria Major components of the works programs
for national and provincial roads were defined in temis of annual expenditures and physical targets.
Components to be financed were to include road and bridge improvement and maintenance, road safety
measures, a comprehensive program of technical assistance to concemed agencies, and training.
iv.    The loan covenants required the borrower to review annually with the Bank progress under the
Policy Statement and Action Plan, and the corresponding work program and budget Also the Borrower was
required (i) to prepare in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, draft three year rolling
expenditure plans for national and provincial roads and issue final expenditure plans, taking the Bank's
comments into account, and (ii) to insure that only subprojects which had an economic rate of return over
15% were to be included. In addition, any toll road subproject to be carried out was to have a feasibility
study.



- iii -
15% were to be included. In addition, any toll road subproject to be carried out was to have a feasibility
study.
v.     The project's objectives were in line with the Bank's assistance strategy, supporting GOI's efforts to
restructure the economy and enhance the contribution of the transport sector. This was the first project with
a sector approach, and the main objective of "assisting GOI in improving the efficiency of the road sector"
was indeed broad and demanding. However, two clearly formulated strategies gave clarity and more realism
to this otherwise complex project. The first strategy was to set the long term objectives in the Policy
Statement and design carefully a shorter term Action Plan. In fact, the Borrower agreement on the PSAP
provided the basis for Bank's support for several projects in the sector. The other key strategy was to set
three-year rolling expenditure plans as flexible frameworks to define and update the recommended size and
composition of the national and provincial road expenditures. In this respect, the loan covenants proved to be
well designed, focussing on the monitoring of these two strategies.
Implementation Experience and Results.
vi.    The project achieved its objectives to various degrees. With respect to institutional development, the
project contributed to the considerable progress made towards creating a comprehensive and integrated body
of laws and regulations covering road vehicles, road traffic, and road transport. Moreover, the Government
has taken initiatives to improve public understanding of the New Road Traffic and Transport Regulations
and its initiative was being complemented by a number of public organizations. The decentralization of road
traffic and transport functions to provincial and district authorities was also a major substantive achievement.
vii.    With respect to sectoral objectives, although uneven between different levels of government and
regions, significant progress in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of expenditures on road
infrastructure through continued development of planming, programming and budgeting methods were
achieved. The progressive increase m road user charges, specifically increasing the price of diesel fuel to its
opportunity cost and restructuring and increase of motor vehicle tax were major achievements to which the
project contributed. The implementation of KM 74/90 (concerning the transport of containers by road) has
been progressively strengthened. It is now no longer permitted to transport ISO containers on the public road
networks on rigid trucks. The Ministry of Communication issued a decree authorizing enforcement officials
to require the removal of excess loads from overloaded vehicles before they continue their journeys. This
decree is considered to be a more effective deterrent than the imposition of fines. In the area of safety,
however, achievement has generally fallen short of expectations mostly because of difficulties in multi-
agency coordination. However, a draft Highway Code was prepared, and its publication was part of the
Action Plan under the follow-on project.
viii.   The objective of capacity building at central and provincial levels was an overriding one, as
witnessed by the amount of technical assistance (TA) and training agreed to be funded under the project
(Table 7). TA was needed (i) to support implementation of civil works and (ii) for institutional
strengthening. Regarding DGH and IRE, most assignments have had a substantial impact, e.g. in load
monitoring and research skills, and to the point of developing state-of-the-art systems such as the Iterurban
Road Management System and the Indonesian Highway Capacity Manual. Two assignments were
eventually not procured and were deferred to the sucessor project. Regarding Jasa Marga, the impact was
uneven: (i) the Toll Roads Maintenance Management System was also developed as a state-of-the-art
system, but its implementation did not remain part of the project; and (ii) the assistance for proper
assessment of options through feasibility studies was limited to one scheme (Malang-Gempol), mostly due to



- iv -
the evolving role of Jasa Marga in a context of increased private sector paricipation Regarding MOC, the
impact was partial (Restrucuing/Strengthening of DGLC, Traffic Safety) to substantial (Vehicle Weight
and Dimension limits), with good prospects that implementation of the recommendations made under the
project would be pursued under the follow-up project. Globally, these efforts were successful, but they
placed a heavy burden on the agencies, and the existng capacities were often stretched to their limits. The
above would indicate that in addition to the relevance of the actions proposed, the absorptive capacity of the
recipients is also a prime factor to consider, although sometimes difficult to assess.
ix.    Training consisted of three programs: (i) Graduate training at the Institute of Technology of
Bandung (ITB), (n) Road Transport Operators Training (RTOT), and (ii) Overseas training. Overall the
impact of these training programs has been substantial. In addition, it should be noted that considerable
training opportunities did exist in the various TA assigmnents which, however, were not taken full advantage
of, the expertise, equipment, materials available under these assignments are valuable resources which
should have been used to give broader exposure to a maximum of the agencies' staff.
x      The physical objectives aimed at improving the quality of service of national and provincial roads by
focussing on periodic maintenance and rehabilitation. The overall physical targets for the three year
expenditure program considered under the loan corresponded to planned total expenditures of US$2,415
million. The Bank was to finance a subset of this sector program up to a total amount of US$520 million.
Actual achievements were 2,233 km of road rehabilitation /betterrnent, 1 1,744 km of periodic maintenance,
and 10,318 m of bridge replacement, for a total amount of US$505 million. Works were undertaken under
three phases, but in irregular sequence and regional performance was mixed (Tables 5D, E, F). The first
phase encountered numerous difficulties in terns of initial designs requiring extensive reviews and leading to
requests for abnormally large additional works, with sometimes a change of category from periodic
maintenance to betterment works. The review process involving both central and provincial levels was a
lengthy one, and that phase had to be split into two (Phases I and ILA). Phases IIB and m encountered much
less problems, but had to be reduced in order to meet the financing available. Technical support for
supervision represented 5.4% of actual works cost, and program management to assist the provincial road
agencies required a further 2.3%. Hence implementation support amounted globally to 7.70/o of works cost.
xi.    An ex-post evaluation was conducted on a sample of subprojects, using updated traffic data
and actual contract costs, including supervision costs. A total of 40 packages was randomly selected,
representing a sampling of 12% in number of contracts or 15% in value (Table 9). Most of the
packages had their ERR well over 15%, although the range has widened towards the lower end (8% to
100% plus, compared to the estimated 15% to 100% plus). In many cases, the lower returns resulted
from increased engineering requirements revealed by the design review process. In aggregate, it is
considered that the project has achieved an ex-post ERR of 20%, including an allowance for some
occurrences of lower-than-expected quality.
xii.   The major factors that affected adversely the timely achievement of the project objectives were
mainly those subject to the control of the government or the implementing agencies. The government
required more time than anticipated to enact the legal instruments as it tried to resolve differences of view
concering the division of responsibilities among the agencies. Initial delays in starting the subprojects were
experienced because the sheer size of the project was beyond the implementation capacity of the
implementing agencies. In the case of MOC, the major reason for the delays was the need to bring several
institutions to work together within a timed framework and the complexity of the issues requiring the
redrafting of decrees, Government regulations and laws. One factor which was not totally subject to



- v -
government control and had a favorable impact was the relaxation of the financial constraint, although it
carried the risk of stretching even more the agencies'capacities.
xiii.   Overall, the achievements generated in relation to the project's overall objective, efficiency, are
likely to be maintained, especially given the follow-on project. However, the sustainability of the
achievements of the sectoral policies and institutional development objectives require further deepening of
the institutional and sectoral reform programs, upgrading the uneven institutional capabilities in light of the
decentralization objective of the Governnent.
xiv.   Bank performance in all phases of the project cycle was generally satisfactory. hi particular, the
Bank interactive approach in the identification and preparation phases of the project cycle was productive.
However, as anticipated at appraisal, the implementation schedule proved to be optimistic. Delays in
implementations of the carefully prepared Action Plan as well as initial capacity constraints in
implementation of the civil works were experienced. During negotiation most issues and all conditions with
respect to the PSAP were resolved.
xv.    Bank supervision was a demanding exercise. Each contract package was reviewed for design
eligibility by Bank supervision staff. Further, random post reviews of procurement procedures were carried
out. Field supervision reports were specifically directed at solving problems systematically and on a
cumulative basis. Detailed corrective actions were suggested to identified problems in the course of
supervision and were communicated clearly to the implementing agencies. Bank monitoring of the
implementation of the institutional development and sectoral policies objectives was carried by careful
followup the status of Action Plan. At the conclusion of each supervision mission the status of actions taken
to implement each policy statement was recorded and the follow on steps were outlined. Throughout, Bank
staff showed flexibility in guiding the progress of the work in every phase of the project implementation,
including extension of the loan closing date or TA contracts. Bank Performance in this area was satisfactory.
xvi.    The borrower performance in meeting the criteria agreed with the Bank in the preparation phase
regarding (i) the three-year forward expenditure plan and program for national and provincial roads; (ii) the
annual work programs and budgets; (iii) and the policy statement and action plan, was satisfactory.
However such a comprehensive strategy improving transport policies, strengthening institution, and
maintaining and improving infrastructure, could not be implemented without difficulties. Quality of
management was uneven. There was not enough coordination between the design side and the
implementation side within the road agency, and between central and provincial staff. Monitoring and
reporting suffered from this lack of coordination. Performance of consultants was generally good.
Compliance with major loan covemants was uneven: most were complied with after delay or only partially.
Performance was mixed on procurement activities (acceptable for civil works and goods, lengthy and
sometimes deficient for consulting services). Overall, although achievements at the implementation stage
were uneven, GOI performance can be considered satisfactory in view of the difficulty of the challenge.
xvii.  The project achieved most of its major objectives with only a few shortcomings, and these
achievements are likely to be sustainable. Among the main achievements were: the introduction of a modem
Road Traffic and Transport Law, the decentralization of road traffic and transport functions to provincial and
district authorities, the progressive increase of road user charges. The planning, programming and
monitoring system of DGH has been enhanced and staff trained. Highway expenditure programs have
shifted in a significant way towards more and improved maintenance and betterment being carried out by



- Vi -
least maintain the initially set threshold of 15% economic intemal rate of return. Overall the targets of the
Bank financed components were substantially achieved.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
xviii. The most important findings of the project implementation expenence are: (i) that a relatively long
gestation period in the identification and preparation phases helped to work out clear implementation
strategies, and (ii) improving the formulation of appropriate sector policies or procedures was easier to
achieve than improving their implementation, because the latter had to deal extensively with multi-agency
coordination and decentralization.
xix.   Current operation of investments made under the project has shown encouraging results, in terms of
(i) improvement in cost recovery, (ii) rationalization of budgetary allocation, and (iii) reduction in road
transport costs (Table 6). However there is no formally recognized plan for future operation, although the
measures agreed between the Bank and GOI under the follow-on project HS2 were designed to move
towards maximizing the net benefits from past investment as well as the benefits from the project itself. In
particular, the measures had as their objectives the further development of PSAP and the preparation and
implementation by DGH a three-year expenditure plan for high priority activities on inter-urban National and
Provincial roads. Further, Repelita VI plans to continue to devote a large share of its development
expenditures towards improving and upgrading the interurban road network. Qualitywise, the planned
establishment, in the very short term, of the Quality Assurance Unit will help refocus attention to quality
aspects The implementation of these planned activities is, therefore, likely to assure the maximization of the
net benefits of investments made under the project.
xx.    There are a few lessons to be learnt from this project's experience:
(a)    Policy Foundation. The 1989 Policy Statement has provided a strong foundation not only
for this project, but also fbr all other concurrent projects in the sector; it served well as a vehicle for dialogue
among the concemed agencies of Government and with the Bank  Dealing with long-term objectives, a
new Policy Statement need not be designed for every sector project, but each such prject should have a
modular Action Plan, providing discrete and separable measures and shorter-term benchmarks under the
Policy Statement umbrella
(b)    Institutional Rationalization. The implementation experience under the project showed that
changes in organization structure introduced earlier (1989 new organization of DGL,T) required further
changes in the context of the new land transport law. Such rationalization of the institutional development
and corresponding changes in the legal framework, should be viewed as a dynamnic interactive process. This
institutional rationalization may require a long term time framework and extended consultation.
(c)    Development Effectiveness of TA and Training. This project has shown that investing in
TA and training for institutional capacity building purposes can yield high returns in terms of development
effectiveness. Conditions for success in a cost-effective manner include: (a) assignments have to be
responsive to specific needs; (b) their number should take into account the absorptive capacity of the various
recipient agencies; (c) full advantage should be taken of the untapped training opportunities existing in most
TA assignments; and (d) actual skills upgrading takes time. If there are delays in implementing the
TA/training components, the improved workforce would not be available at the start of the project, but rather
at the end, thereby limiting their contribution to the specific objectives of the project.






I
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan No. 3133-NID)
INDONESIA
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Prior projects: The Highway Sector (HS) Project, which is the subject of this evaluation, was the
thirteenth road sector project since assistance to the subsector started in 1969. Recent PCRs and PPARs
were related to the Fifth Highway Project in 1989, the Highway Betterment Project and Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Project in 1993. An ICR was prepared for the Second Rural Roads
Development Project (Loan 2881 -IND) in 1994. Overall, implementation of the civil work components of
these projects was evaluated as satisfactory in termns of timeliness.
2.    Generally, previous highway projects were focussed on: (i) improving the quality of the road
network through new road construction, rehabilitation, and also in improvement and maintenance works; (ii)
developing the technical capacity of the road agencies at the central and regional level; and (iii) strengthening
the capacity for road sector policy formulation and implementation. As a result of the range and complexity
of the sector issues combined with the GOI institutional setup, Bank lending strategy to the road sector has
differentiated between major road classes, national and provincial roads on one hand and district roads on the
other hand. Projects which supported the development of the national and provincial roads focussed on
capacity building in the national and provincial highway agencies and addressed land transport policy
development and implementation. Concurrently, projects in support of the district road network focus on
strengthening institutional capacity at districts levels. Development of urban roads has been addressed as part
of ulrban transport and broader urban development projects.
3.    Project Objectives: As stated in the SAR, the main objective of the Highway Sector Project was to
assist the Government in improving the overall efficiency of the road subsector by supporting its Policy
Statement and Action Plan (PSAP) for road transport and road use as weel as the comprehensive
expenditure plan for interurban roads 1989/90 to 1991/92. Specifically, the project's development objectives
were: (i) consolidating past improvements in the formulation and implementation of the highway sector
expenditures; (ii) instituting improved policies on road use; (iii) strengthening the institutions involved in the
sector; (iv) improving the quality of the road network by focussing on maintenance and rehabilitation/
betterment works.
4.    Project Components: The project essentially consisted of (i) technical assistance, studies and
training to assist in the implementation of the PSAP and the expenditure plan; and (ii) specific subprojects
selected annually on the basis of agreed procedures and economic and technical criteria. Major components
of the works programs for national and provincial roads were defined in terms of annual expenditures and
physical targets. Components to be financed were to include road and bridge improvement and maintenance,



- 2 -
road safety measures, technical assistance and training and comprised of subprojects of civil works,
procurement of equipment and consultancy services.
5.    During negotiations the Bank sought and reached agreements on conditions necessary for the
effective and efficient execution of the project and to limit the potential constraints on the timely achievement
of the project objectives. In particular, the risk of delays in policy improvement was to be minimized through
implementation of the carefully prepared and formulated Action Plan. A three-year expenditure plan, based
on firm indications of foreign funding and moderate growdh of local funding and GOI's implementation
capacity, was the safeguard designed to minimize the risk of delays in the implementation of the civil work
component of the project. Further, during negotiations the need for timely reviews of the Borrower's rolling
expenditure plan for inter-urban national and provincial roads for the subsequent three year period starting
December 1, 1989 was agreed upon. The Borrower was also required further to insure that only subprojects
which met a minimum economic intemal rate of return of 15% were to be included. In addition, any toll
road subproject to be canied out or caused to be carried out was to have a feasibility study, based on
generally recognized sound economic and environmental methodologies and the Bank was to have an
opportunity to comment.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project was the first sectoral Highway Project in Indonesia The
concept of the highway sector loan and its timing were appropriate to enhance further development of
hndonesia's road sector. The idea of the highway sector project actually evolved from: (i) recognition by the
Bank of the continuous improvement in the recent past in the highway sector; (ii) acknowledgement of the
relative maturity and capability reached by DGH; and (iii) the desire to build upon on the policy agenda
work carried out under previous Bank Projects. The merit of the approach was its potential to: (i) provide a
framework to review the entire highway sector expenditure program and its components; (ii) help
consolidate previous work on policies; and (iii) establish a comprehensive coordinated sector policy agenda
and action plan for its implementation.
7.    The project nain objective of "assisting GOI in imnproving the efficiency of the road subsector" was
without doubt too broad. Were it not for the specificity introduced by defining further this objective in
relation to GOI's Policy Statement and Action Plan, and further restricting the aims of PSAP within a three-
year expenditure plan, evaluating the achievement of the efficiency objective and the impact of such a
complex and large project would have been more difficult. The broad sectoral objective was however,
consciously selected on the assumption that more efficient development of the sector can be achieved by
addressing issues on a subsector rather than on a purely investment project basis, in particular in the key
areas of: (i) composition of the level of expenditures, (ii) institutional strengthening; (iii) and improvement in
subsector policies..
8     Judging from the order of presentation of the objectives, the institutional development and sectoral
policy reform objectives, which focussed on rationalization of the transport systemn, were given priority by
both the Bank and the Government. Hence, the focus of the HS Project on the refinement, better integration
of policies and optimization of public sector investment, operational planning with the goal of improving
efficiency and thereby reducing overall transport system costs. Of course in terms of expenditures the civil
works component represented by far the largest portion of the three-year national and provincial expenditure
program. In fact, it constituted 82% of the total expenditures and represented a significant work load for the
implementing agencies.



9.    The clanty and realism of the objectives of this otherwise complex project; was enhanced by two
clearly formulated strategies. The first strategy was the Policy Statemernt and Action Plan. In fact, the PSAP
provided the basis for Bank's support for the Highway Sector Projects. In defining the project objective, the
Bank based itself on the Government's 1989 comprehensive Policy Statement and Action Plan formulated to
determine the direction of development of roads and road traffic and transport in the medium term. The
PSAP was based on analyses of past policies and recommendations of a number of transport studies. The
Policy Statement (PS) was developed by a working group drawn from the key agencies concerned and
covered seven main areas, namely: (i) legal and regulatory framework, (ii) institutional development and
coordination, (iii) integration of transport sector policy formulation and planning (intermodal transport) (iv)
planning programming and execution of road works; (v) road user taxation, (vi) vehicle weight and
dimensions limits, and (vii) traffic safety. The overall focus of the PS was on proper coordnation and
integration of policies and programs that were shared by several ministies and departments. However,
without the Action Plan which provided a basis for progressive implementation of the PS by stages, the risk
of non-achievement of the stated objective would have been high. The short term Action Plan (1990-1993)
helped focus on interurban transport and was specifically designed for implementation under the HS Project
10.   Besides the PSAP, the other key strategy was to define the size and composition of the sector
expenditures within the framework of a three-year expenditure plan. With respect to expenditure plans, past
experiences showed two potential weaknesses. First; the estimates for availability of local and external fumds
were considered optimistic. Second, the plans did not focus enough on adequate considerations of alternative
technical solutions and economnic benefits. These lessons were used in drawing up a core plan of high priority
activities for inter-urban national and provincial roads for the FY 1989/90 to 1991/92. Accordingly, the
project loan of US$350 million was designed to support about US$580 million of the planned US$2,414.7
million expenditure, a slice of DGH's 1989/90 to 1991/92 plan under Repelita V, GOI's Five Year
(1989/90 to 199/94) Development Plan.. The PSAP and the three year expenditure plan provided a
framework for comprehensive articulation of the project objective. These strategies were also appropriate
responses to meet the development priorities of the road sector taking institutional capacity and the stage of
development of the road network into account. They were flexible enough to accommodate changes in the
miacroeconomic context -for instance when budget constraints became less rigorous, the rationality of sector
expenditure allocations was maintained.
B. Achievement of Objectives
11.    Based on an assessment of progress made during implementation to meet the project's targets,
overall, achievement of the project objectives varied from partial to substantial. Provided below is an
assessment of the contribution of the project towards the achievements of: (i) macroeconomic policies; (ii)
sectoral policies reform and implementation; (iii) institutional development; (iv) physical objectives; and (v)
an adequate economic rate of return for the civil works component.
12.   Macroeconomic Policies/ Expenditure Program - The three-year expenditure plan focussed on
financing a core program and narrowing the gap between the planned expenditure and the available local and
foreign resource. The aim was to finance the expenditure program by mobilizing real resource and reduce
the potential for either resorting to deficit financing or delays in implementation due to lack of local funds. To
that end, the Bank made the annual preparation of a draft rolled-over expenditure plan for the succeeding
three years for all inter-urban national and provincial roads, a condition in the loan agreement. This was a
good safeguard to limit the impact of the highway sector expenditure program as potential cause of
macroeconomy instability, but eventually the risk did not materialize since resources available allowed an



- 4 -
expansion of sector expenditures. Then the quality of the expenditure program becarne the main
determinant, as discussed further.
13.   Sectoral Policies - The seven objectives set out in the Policy Statement were broadly designed to
improve road infrastructure and road transport and traffic policies to move towards a situation characterized
by: (a) a regulatory regime providing the right incentives and well administered; and (ii) effective and
efficient programs of public spending. Overall, the achievements of the specific targets set in the Action
Plan were uneven, and some ongoing activities wvere transferred to be continued under the follow-up project.
14.   Legal and Regulatory Reform (Policy Statement 1) - In line vwith the intent of the policy statement,
GOI (i) in 1990 issued a Government Regulation that provided for the decentralization of important road
traffic and transport functions to provincial and municipal govemments; (ii) in 1992 enacted a new Law on
Road Traffic and Transport; and (iii) had by the project closing date issued the three key Government
Regulations and the subordinate Ministerial Decrees required for its implementation. Considerable effort
was devoted to generating public awareness of the new regulations, including through sponsored advertising
and competitions, and to increasing the stringency of enforcement in stages so as not to cause social unrest.
15.   Institutional Development and Coordination (Poiy Statement 2) - Responsibilities for road traffic
and transport functions have been devolved to regional governments, and Regional Road Traffic and
Transport (DLLAJ) units have been established in all provinces. Few municipalities have done so formally,
although some have embryonic units that will be formalized when administrative arrangements between
MOC and MHA are finalized. Likewise, the restructuring of DGLC along modal lines was held up for a
long time by Menpan because of concerns that the changes would result in the size of the organization
increasing. Therefore continuous efforts are needed for DGLC to become a competent and focused
organization and for the decentralization of road traffic and transport functions to be fully effective.
16.   Integration of Transport Sector Policv Formulation and Planning (Policg Statement 3) - Various
initiatives designed to promote more effective coordination of transport sector policy and planning activities,
and especially between MOC and MPW have been completed (in particular the national O-D survey of
road users and LTPD-11 study, both financed under loan 2577-IND). However, these agencies remain very
compartmentalized and there still is only linited interaction and cooperation on policy and planning matters.
Similar comments apply to relationships between other central and regional agencies involved in the sector.
Again continuous efforts are warranted in this area.
17.   Planning. Programrning and Execution of Road Works (Policy Statement 4) - Consolidating
improvements initiated under past Bank involvement in the road subsector in the formulation and
implementation of subsector expenditures was one of the objective in Policy Statement 4. Although uneven
between different levels of government and regions, significant progress in improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of expenditure on road infrastructure through continued development of planning,
progranmming and budgeting methods were achieved. The further development and widespread use of the
IRMS, which controlled a major part of the expenditure program, was instrumental in enhancing the quality
of sector spending. Technical policies regarding the use of local rock asphalt, concrete pavement, and steel
bridges, were reviewed but would need to be refined further. Regarding the execution of works,
achievement was only partial; as para 28 shows, there is room for improving program management within
the road agency in a decentralized context.



- 5 -
18.    Road User Charges (Policy Statement 5) - The progressive increase in road user charges,
specifically increasng the price of diesel fuel to its opportunity cost and restructuring motor vehicle taxes
were major achievements to which the project contributed. The government decision to eliminate further all
oil subsidies represented a significant first step towards implementing GOI's adopted policy on road user
charges. Based on the imnplementation experience under the project, a "Stage II Action Plan" is being
supported under HS2, focussing more on the structure, that is the incidence of charges between different
categories of users.
19.    Vehicle Weight and Dimension Limits (Polih Statement 6) - The implementation of KM 74/90
(concerning the transport of containers by road ) has been progressively strengthened. Going beyond simply
requiring the use of articulated trucks for container movement, it stipulated minimum axle configurations and
power-to-weight ratios. After a slow start it has been effectively enforced particularly in the vicinity of all
major ports. Planning for the classification and signing of roads according to the new load bearing classes
established under law 14/92 was under way and was being coordinated with the introduction of anew
numbering system. The MOC issued a decree authorizing enforcement officials to require the removal of
excess loads from overloaded vehicles before they continue their journeys. This is considered to be a more
effective deterrent than the imposition of fines.
20.    Traffic Safetv (Policv Statement 7) - The new Law provides a much improved basis for traffic
safety. Experience in terms of translating this into results has been limited. Pilot accident black spot
campaigns have been conducted, in some cases drawing on improved information on accident causes
generated by the initial implementation of a new traffic accident reporting system. Considerable attention has
also gone into improving public awareness on traffic safety matters. However, litle progress has been made
with regard to improving the effectiveness of vehicle safety, or to eradicating safety risks caused by low
incomes motorists.
21.   Institutional Development Objectives - The objective of strengthening subsector institutions at
central and provincial levels was an overriding one, as witnessed by the amount of technical assistance (TA)
agreed to be funded under the project (also, three of the seven policies outlined in the Policy Statement were
focussed on institutional development objectives). Institutional strengthening (including training), amounted
to 3.2% of project costs or 5.1% of the loan amount (the rest of the TA components was related to
implementation support, including program management and technical strengthering of provincial Dinas
BinaMarga as described in para 29). Two reasons were given in the SAR to explain this exceptional level
of effort: (i) these services would address most of the needs of the sector and associated institutions including
some of those required by projects financed by other donors, and (ii) the fast pace of decentralization set by
GOI as well as expanding road operations in general.
22.    How successful then have been these efforts? Table 7 lists the 13 assignments for studies or TA and
gives an idea of their impact. Regarding DGH and IRE, the main findings are that most assignments have
had a substantial impact, to the point that in some areas it can be said that Indonesia has developed state-of-
the-art systemns, such as the Interurban Road Management System or the Highway Capacity Manual.
Regarding Jasa Marga, the impact was uneven: (i) the Toll Roads Maintenance Management System was
also developed as a state-of-the-art system, but its implementation was funded outside the project; and (ii)
the assistance for proper assessment of options through feasibility studies was limited to one scheme
(Malang-Gempol), mostly due to the evolving role of Jasa Marga in a context of increased private sector
participation. Regarding MOC, the impact was partial (Restructuring/Strengthening of DGLC, Traffic



- 6 -
Safety) to substantial (Vehicle Weight and Dimension limits), with good prospects that implementation of
the recommendations made under the project would be pursued under HS2.
23.   Although globally satisfactory, implementation of this component was fraught with difficulties,
and three main problems emerged. Firstly, regarding DGH, two assignments were not undertaken
(Implementation Quality Improvement, and IRE Technical Standards Development), mostly because of
too lengthy procurement processes; however due to their relevance, it was agreed that they would be
implemented under the follow-up project. Secondly, regarding MOC, this department's organization
still needs to be amended to reflect the massive changes that have reshaped its role, most notably as a
result of decentralization, deregulation, corporatization of SOEs, and increasing private participation.
Finally, management of these assignments placed a heavy burden on all agencies concerned, and the
existing capacities were often stretched to their limits. The above would indicate that it is not enough
to care about the relevance of the actions proposed, the absorptive capacity of the recipients is also a
prime factor, although sometimes difficult to assess.
24.   Training consisted of three programs: (i) Graduate training at the Institute of Technology of
Bandung (ITB), (ii) Road Transport Operators Training (RTOT), and (iii) Overseas training. Globally the
impact of these training programs has been substantial as shown in the paragraph below. In addition, it
should be noted that a lot of training opportunities exist in the various TA assignments which have not been
fully availed of; the expertise, equipment; materials available under these assignments are valuable resources
which should be used to give broader exposure to a maximum of the agencies' staff.
25.   (i) The ITB graduate program is a 2-year master level program generally completed fully in-
country; for some students who have satisfied the first year requirements at ITB (about 10 per year),
the second year could be spent in an overseas university to finish their studies. This "split-program"
has proven well-suited to DGH needs in that it provides good international exposure in a cost-effective
manner. (ii) The RTOT program appears to have been well tailored to respond to a very real market
demand for transport management assistance. Ten indonesian trainers have been trained so that they are
now capable of running the courses without outside assistance, and 120 senior and middle management
staff in road transport companies have successfully attended the courses. However, MOC needs to have
a more effective dissemination, by developing the mechanisms whereby the course can be delivered
regionally by competent local colleges. (iii) Overseas training comprised a DGH fellowships component
(58 graduate students in the UK, France, Canada), and a MOC fellowships component (8 graduate
students in the UK and Australia). Details on the fellowship programs are given in Table 5B from
which two points can be made. First the equivalent cost per student-year averages US$30,000, which
is, of course, high compared with the cost of a graduate year at the ITB (about US$8,000); but the
extra cost is deemed worthwhile in the case of a split-program, whereas for full overseas master
programs, attendance could be limited to specialized areas not adequately covered by in-country
programs. Second, the cost range is wide (US$25,000-48,000 per student-year), and there is scope for
selecting, from the experience gained under this project, the most cost-effective programs for future
training operations.
26.   Specialized equipment was needed under the institutional capacity building component. Table 5C
shows the changes from appraisal: the total cost increased slightly, but more importantly some of the
purposes did change to adapt to real needs. Acquisition of equipment for vehicle testing and inspection was
postponed until DGLC would be ready to receive it and hence transferred to HS2; additional MIS
equipment was provided to DGH, and laboratory and computer equipment were provided to the Kanwils for



- 7 -
strengthening these deconcentrated units in parallel with the support they receivecl under the Institutional
Development and Training Project (Loan 3112-IND).
27.   Physical Objectives - The objective of the civil works component of the HS Project was to
improve the quality of service of national and provincial roads by focussing on periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation. The overall physical targets for the three year expenditure program considered under the loan
amounted to planned total expenditures of US$2,415 million. The Bank was to finance a subset of this sector
program up to a total amount of US$520 million. Actual achievements were 2,233 km of road rehabilitation
/betterment, 11,744 km of periodic maintenance, and 10,318 m of bridge replacement, for a total amount of
US$505 million. The under-achievement in terms of dollar corresponds in fact to an over-achievement in
terms of rupiah (1,013 billion actual versus 920 planned), mostly due to the currency depreciation.
28.    Some details about the regional performance under the various phases are given in tables 5D to 5F,
which show that overall implementation of the civil works component was satisfactory, vith cost overruns
and time overruns varying with the implementation Region but of lirnited extent globally. However when
looking at the phases individually, the picture is less rosy: instead of three phases launched annually,
implementation was carried out in four phases (L IIA, IIB and E) in irregular sequence. Phase I
encountered numerous difficulties in terms of initial designs requiring extensive reviews and leading to
requests for abnormally large additional works, with sometimes a change of category from periodic
maintenance to betterment works. Most cost overruns were the results of modifications to the engineering
design requirements arising from detailed field investigations, particularly occasioned by necessary
sideworks such as drainage which are not included in the IRMS in the estimates of subproject costs.
However the review process involving both central and provincial levels was a lengthy one. The Bank was
strict in requiring proper justification for large change orders, and eventually agreed to most of the redesigns,
either as contract addenda included in Phase 1, or under new contracts to be retendered as Phase ILA when
cost overruns exceeded 30%. The total of these addenda and Phase iHA contracts amounted to about 70% of
the initial Phase I contracts, a substantial overrun indeed. Phases IIB and m1 encountered much less
problems, but had to be reduced in order to meet the financing available.
29.   Implementation support was to be provided through technical assistance for (i) design review and
supervision (US$18 million, or 3.9% of works cost), and (ii) program management and technical support to
provincial offices (US$7.2 million, or 1.6% of works cost). In actual fact, technical assistance for
supervision amounted to US$27.7 million or 5.4% of actual cost, and program management required a
further US$11.5 million, or 2.3%. Hence implementation support amounted globally to 7.7% of works cost
instead of a planned 5.5%, due to the required extension of the construction period.
30.    Economic Reevaluation.     Since the methodologies used to select optimum treatments
were such that all works identified by the IRMS should have a minimum economic rate of return
(ERR) of 15%, the SAR stated that the ERR for the physical components as a whole should be well
over 15%. An ex-post evaluation was conducted on a sample of subprojects, using updated traffic data
and actual package contract costs, including supervision costs as per para 29 above. The list of all
packages was broken down by province and type of works (betterment, periodic maintenance, etc.),
and within each sub-category, sample packages were selected at random. A total of 40 packages was
thus selected, representing a sampling of 12% in number of contracts or 15% in value. Details of the
reevaluation are provided in Table 9, and summarized below:
(a)    Most of the packages have their ERR well over 15%; in aggregate, the ERR of the
sampled program is in the order of 30%.



- 8 -
(b)    However a few packages were only marginally viable, and four (10%) were below the
initially set threshold of 15%. The latter are mostly Phase I and Phase HA contracts
which suffered relatively large cost overruns (para 28); depending on how traffic did
evolve on the concemed links, the impact ranged from a mild decrease in the ERR to a
more severe reduction but only in one case (out of the random sample of 40) when the
ERR was 7.9%, did it fall below 10%.
31.    Quality aspects have not been specifically considered in this reevaluation, because there is still
a lack of comprehensive and quantitative information on work implementation quality in DGH1. Only
an indirect assessment can be made, based on instances of inadequate quality revealed during field
visits by supervision teams and Bank staff. Although in general quality could be better, cases of severe
deficiency were exceptional, and the impact in terms of shorter investment life relatively limited. A
recent estimate made during preparation of the follow-up project (HS2 SAR, February 1994), would
suggest that the likely impact of not achieving the quality goal would be a reduction in the order of one
tenth in the ERR. Taking the latter as a minimum, it is considered that, globally, the project has
achieved an ex-post ERR of 20%, although the range has widened towards the lower end (8% to 100%
plus, compared to the planned 15% to 100% plus).
C. Majoi Factors Affecting the Project
32.    The major factors that affected the achievement of the project objectives were almost all subject to
the government control or the implementing agencies. For instance government control was evident in the
area of modemization of the legal and administrative framework. The main cause for the slow progress in
this area was the extensive time needed to resolve differences of view concerning the division of
responsibilities among the agencies. Expenrence proved that generally the Government required more time
than anticipated to enact these legal instruments. Consequently, implementation of the ongoing PSAP
activities had to be continued under HS2 after April 1993. Most other factors were subject to
implementation agencies control. Inital delays in starting the subprojects were experienced because the
sheer size of the project was beyond the implementation capacity of the implementing agencies. As a result
the closing date was twice extended. Management effectiveness of Bina Marga as demonstrated in the
implementation of the physical component was mixed. At the provincial level institutional capacity was
uneven. MOC also expenrenced initial implementation delays, due to the need to bring several institutions to
work together within a timed franework and the complexity of the issues requiring the redrafting of decrees,
Government regulations and laws. The only "exogenous"factor was the relaxation of the financial
constraint, which had of course a positive impact but also carried the risk of overloading even more the
agencies.
33.   The above review of the major factors affecting the project has to be related to the assessment of
risks and the devices established to mitigate them. The SAR identified three main areas of risks: (i) the
breadth of the policy agenda, (ii) lack of financing, and (ini) lack of implementation capability. The Action
Plan proved to be an excellent tool to mintigate the first risk, but the timeframe for the staged actions was still
too optimistic. The frarnework of the 3-year expenditure program and the annual reviews took care ofthe
second risk, updated to mean 'lack of relative financing for priority purposes" The third risk was supposed
This lack of reliable data on quality aspects had already been identified as an issue in the Performance Audit
Report for the two predecessor projects (para I above). In the successor project (HS2), a Quality Assurance
Unit was to be established in DGH. This is now expected in early 1996.



- 9 -
to be reduced by the large program of training and TA. Maybe the existence of a time-lag in this area should
be more recognized, as it takes time for training and TA to produce a more skilled workforce quantity- and
qualitywise.
D. Project Sustainability
34.    The sustainability with regard to the sectoral policies and institutional development objectives
requires further deepening of the reform program. Substantial completion of the policy and institutional
reform agenda under the follow-on project would be a necessary condition for the sustainability of these
objectives. But it would not be sufficient: even after the completion of the follow-on project, continuous
adjustment will be required to achieve system wide sustainability given the present uneven institutional
capabilities between the center and the regions. The sustainability with regard to the physical objectives of
the road program has been enhanced by the policies relating, interalia, to the composition of the expenditure
programs, cost recovery, vehicle weights and dimension limits. It also depends in part on institutional and
management effectiveness of Bina Marga, now relatively mature institution, and in part on substantial
progress being made in the decentralization and the success of the MOCIDGLC/ reform agenda and on the
further development of the construction industry. Overall, the achievements generated in relation to the
project's overall objective of sector efficiency, are likely to be maintained.
E. Bank Performance
35.   Identification. The Highway Sector Project was the first Bank financed highway sector project in
Indonesia Identification of the project was carried in early 1987 in the context of preparing the Five Year
Development Plan, Repelita V. Earlier Bank's transport sector work, suggested that a more efficient
development of the sector could be achieved by addressing issues on subsectoral rather than on project basis.
The Highway Sector Project, in fact, represented the culmination of several years of interactive preparatory
works of GOL consultants and Bank staff under the previous projects to implementation policy statements
and associated action plans in key policy areas. Identification of the issues to be addressed and the approach
to be used were also consolidated over an extensive preparatory period. The Bank interactive approach in the
identification phase of the project cycle was productive. The Bank's performance in this phase of the project
cycle was satisfactory.
36.    Preparation. It took two years between the initial project executive summary prepared in February
1987 and the final one in March 1989,. Before appraisal was undertaken, several preparation/preappraisal
rissions and a second and a third executive project summaries were undertaken by the Bank to resolve
outstanding issues with respect to the three-year highway expenditure program and the preparation of the
policy statement and action plans. Each of the project component was reviewed. The cornplexity, size and
scope of the project required persistent and some routine work flow procedures. For, example the Bank
nudged the consultants to clari'fy methodological issues until it satisfied itself with the broad methodology.
The consultants used a simplified version of HDM m, which attempted to define an optimum pavement
strategy with cost spread over five year of Repelita for each road link of the total road maintenance &
betterment program. Bank's performance in the this phase was also satisfactory.
37.    Appraisal. Appraisal started in March 1989 and continued to July 1989. Two missions were
needed to clarify outstanding issues. However, the implementation schedule proved to be optimistic. Delays
in implementations of the carefully prepared Action Plan as well as capacity constraints in implementation
were experienced. By negotiation time most issues and all conditions with respect to PSAP were resolved



- 10-
except official receipt of the document. On balance, the Bank's performance here too can be considered
satisfactory.
38.    Supervision. The project was declared effective in February 22, 1990. Both headquarters and
resident mission staff were utilized in the supervision of the project. Bank supervision was intensive and was
directed at correcting weaknesses being experienced during implementation. With respect to the civil work
component, the first year list of civil work projects provided the initial basis for follow up of the first phase of
the civil work implementation. Subsequently the subprojects in each phase were reviewed for design
eligibility by Bank supervision staff. Further, random post reviews of procurement procedures were carried
out. Field supervision reports were specifically directed at solving problems systematically and on a
cumulative basis. Detailed corrective actions were suggested to identified problems in the course of
supervision and were communicated clearly to the implementing agencies. Bank monitoring of the
implementation of the institutional development and sectoral policies objectives was carried by carefully
monitoring the status of Action Plan. At the conclusion of each supervision mission the status of action taken
to implement each policy statement was recorded and the follow on steps were outlined. Throughout, Bank
staff showed flexibility in guiding the progress of the work in every phase of the project implementation,
including extension of the loan closing date or TA contracts. Bank Performance in this area was satisfactoiy.
F. The Borrower performance
39.    Preparation: Broadly, the essential preparation tasks consisted of: (i) three-year forward
expenditure plan and prograrn for national and provincial roads; (ii) annual work programs and budgets; (iii)
and policy statement and action plan. The preparation of national and provincial roads programs was carried
out in the context of Repelita V. A first list of projects as well as the policy statement and action plan were
agreed upon during negotiation. The borrower performance in meeting the criteria agreed with the Bank in
the preparation phase was satisfactory.
40.   Implementation. Such a comprehensive strategy improving transport policies, strengthening
institution, and maintaining and improving infrastructure, could not be implemented without difficulties.
Quality of management was uneven. There was not enough coordination between the design side and the
implementation side within the road agency, and between central and provincial staff. Monitoring and
reporting suffered from this lack of coordination. Performance of consultants was generally good (para 22).
Compliance with major loan covemants was uneven: most were complied with after delay or only partially.
Performance was mixed on procurement activities (acceptable for civil works and goods, lengthy and
sometimes deficient for consulting services). Performance of contractors was uneven, calling for stricter
prequalification procedures (most contracts were won by local contractors). Overall, although achievements
at the implementation stage were uneven, GOI performance can be considered satisfactory in view of the
difficulty of the challenge.
G. Assessment of Outcome
41.    The project was a demanding one. It achieved most of its major objectives substantially or partially,
and is likely to achieve satisfactory development results with only few shortcomings. Among the main
achievements to which the project contributed were: the introduction of a modem Road Traffic and
Transport Law, the decentralization of road traffic and transport functions to provincial and district
authorities, the progressive increase in road user charges. The planming, programming and monitoring
system of DGH has been enhanced and staff trained.. Now state-of-the-art programming and budgeting
systems for road maintenance and betterment works are being used for the entire national and provincial



- I1 -
system. Planned maintenance expenditures under the three-year forward plans are considered adequate. The
overall targets of the Bank financed project components were substantially achieved despite the
shortcomings already observed. Most of the subprojects would at least maintain the initially set threshold of
15% economic internal rate of return. Overall the project's outcome is considered satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
42.    Current operation of the project investments has shown encouraging results, in terms of (i)
improvement in cost recovery, (ii) rationalization of budgetaiy allocation, and (ii) reduction in road transport
costs (Table 6). However there is no formally recognized plan for future operation, although the measures
agreed between the Bank and GOI under HS2 were designed to move towards maximizing the net benefits
from past investment as well as the benefits from the project itself In particular, the measures had as their
objectives the further development of PSAP and the preparation and implementation by DGH of a three-year
expenditure plan for high priority activities on inter-urban National and Provincial roads. Further, Repelita VI
plans to continue to devote a large share of its development expenditures towards improving and upgrading
the interurban road network. Qualitywise, the establishment in the very short term of the Quality Assurance
Unit will help refocus attention on quality aspects which rernain inadequate at present The implementation
of these planned activities is, therefore, likely to assure the maximization of the net benefits of investmnents
made under the project.
*. Key Lessons Learned
43.    There are a few lessons to be learnt from this project's experience:
(a)    Policy Foundation. The 1989 Policy Statement has provided a strong foundation not only
for this project, but also for all other concurrent projects in the sector; it served well as a vehicle for dialogue
among the concemed agencies of Govemment and with the Bank. Dealing with long-term objectives, a
new Policy Statement need not be designed for every sector project, but each such project should have a
modular Action Plan, providing discrete and separable measures and shorter-term benchmarks under the
Policy Statement umbrella
(b)    Institutional Rationalization. The implementation experience under the project showed iat
changes in organization structure introduced earlier (1989 new organization of DGLT) required further
changes in the context of the new land transport law. Such rationalization of the institutional development
and corresponding changes in the legal framework, should be viewed as a dynamic interactive process. This
institutional rationalization may require a long term time framework and extended consultation.
(c)    Development Effectiveness of TA and Training. This project has shown that investing in
TA and training for institutional capacity building purposes can yield high returns in terms of development
effectiveness. Conditions for success in a cost-effective manner include: (a) assignments have to be
responsive to specific needs; (b) their number should take into account the absorptive capacity of the various
recipient agencies; (c) full advantage should be taken of the untapped training opportunities existing in most
TA assignments; and (d) actual skills upgrading takes time. If there are delays in implementing the
TA/training components, the improved workforce would not be available at the start of the project, but rather
at the end, thereby limiting their contribution to the specific objectives of the project.






Table 1: Summary of Assessment
INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial     Partial          Ne21igible      Not
applicable
Macroeconomic policies              E                  5Z               CD
Sector policies                                        EJ               ED                 E
Financial objectives                E                   O               C1
institutional development                                               ED EO
Physical objectives                                    ED                                 ED
Poverty reduction                   ED                 ED               ED
Gender concerns                      O                 E                E]
Other social objectives             E                  E                E0
Environmental objectives            En                                  ED                  0
Public sector management            E                   0                                  EC
Private sector development          E                                   ED                 ED
Economic Benefits                                      ED               E OC
B. Proiect sustainability            Likely          Unlikely         Uncertainl/
(')             (I)              (I
C. Bank performance                  Highly
Satisfactorv    Satisfactojv     Deficient
(0              (1)             (0)
Identification                      E                                   ED
Preparation assistance               O                                  ED
Appraisal             O                 O
Supervision                          OD
D. Borrower performance              Highl
Safifactoy      Satisfactorv     Deficient
(0              (/)             (I
Preparation                          O                                  ED
Implementation                       0                                  ED
Covenant compliance                  O                                  ED
Operation (if applicable)            0                                  EC
E. Assessment of outcome             Highlv
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(I (a (n f
1/ depends essentially on maintenance follow-up



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose                             Year of     Status
Approval
Loan 2404-IND               Highway rehabilitation &                1984    Completed.
Highway Betterment Project   institutional strengthening                    PCR No. 9102
PPAR No.12659 (1993)
Loan 2717-IND               Highway maintenance and                 1986    Completed.
Highway Maintenance and     rehabilitation                                  PCR No. 10544 (1992)
Betterment Project                                                          PPAR No. 72659 (1993)
Loan 3712-IND               Improve and expand the service          1994    Ongoing
Second highway Sector       quality of national and provincial
Investment Project          roads; strengthening the institutional
capability of DGH & other
agencies responsible for road
sector policies
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned                        Date Actual
Latest Estimate
Identification                             Feb-87                           Oct. - Nov. 87
Identification/preparation                 Feb-88                           Feb-88
Preparation/preappraisal                   Jun-88                           Feb-88
Appraisal                                  Apr-89                           Jun-89
Negotiations                               Mar-89                           Sep-89
Jul-89
Board Presentation                         May-89                           Nov-89
Sep-89
Signing                                                                     18-Dec-89
Effectiveness                             16-Feb-90                         22-Feb-90
Project completion                        30-Jun-93                         30-Jun-95
Loan closing                              30-Jun-93                         30-Jun-95
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
PY 90            FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94  FY95
Appraisal estimate                 60,000           150,000   250,000   350,000
Actual                             29,990           102,520   192,410   272,440   301,300 330,120
Actual as % of estimate             50%              68%      77%       78%       86%   94%
Date of final disbursement                                                               2-Nov-95
* US$10,000,000.00 was canceled on 16 June 1995, & a further US$9,880,107.12 on 2 November 1995.



CIVIL WORKS
Table 5D: Betterment
Region    Phase     No. of      Length    Actal      Cost    Earliest    Latest     Time
Packages   (km)       Cost    Overrun    Start      Finish    Overrun
West           1           12       751   118,516    1 (7%)    Oct-90    Mar-94   llS, IL
HA            1        69      7,600         0   May-92    Mar-93           iS
IIB           6     312.3    35,334          0    Feb-93    2U         2S, 4L
III
Subtotal        19    1132.3   161,450        440               2U         14S, 5L
Central        1            2      97.2    23,602   2 (20%)   Nov-90    Aug-93        IS, IL
IIA           3      113.3     11818         0     Jul-93    3U             3L
IIB           9     244.9    37,127          0    Mar-93    IU          7S, 2L
III          6      84.86    13,625         0    Aug-94    Jun-95           6S
Subtotal        20    540.26    86,172       3771               IU         14S, 6L
East           I            8     245.1    45,051   6 (24%)    Jan-91    IU           3S, 5L
IIA           0     -          -         -         -          -
IIB           5    249.83     27600      -        May-93    2U              5L
III          5       65.7     8,423 -             Nov-94    5U              5L
Subtotal        18    560.63    81,074       6653      -        8U         3S, 15L
Total          I           22    1093.3    187169      10662     -         IU        15S, 7L
IIA           4      182.3     19418         0     -          -         IS, 3L
IIB          20    807.03    100061          0     -         3U        9S, IlL
III          11    150.56     22048         0      -        5U          6S, 5L
Total           57   2233.19    328696       10864     -        8U        31S, 26L
Table 5E: Periodic Maintenance
West           1           32      2660     52530      -1576    Mar-90    Aug-92   9S, 23L
HA           28      1071     83622      -1829    Mar-92    May-94   l5S, 13L
IIB           6     222.1      16128      -196    Mar-93    2U         2S, 4L
III
Subtotal        66  3953.1       152280      -3601     -        2U        26S, 40L
Central        1           59      3449   149,110      15188    Mar-90    Sep-93   S37, 22L
IIA          36      2034    87,418        507    Apr-90    Jan-95   20S, 16L
IIB           4     60.08      4,512         0    Feb-93    Aug-93      3S, IL
III
Subtotal        99   5543.08   241,040      15695      -         -        60S, 39L
East           I           38      1559     98458      13743    Jan-90    Jan-93   13S, 25L
IIA          10     280.8    21726        2024    Jul-91    Dec-94    8S, 2L
IIB          10     381.7    37342         806    Feb-92     U         3S, 7L
III          2       26.3      2411         0    Oct-94    2U              2L
Subtotal        60    2247.8    159937      16573      -        2U        24S, 36L
Total          I          129      7668    300098      27355     -         -        59S, 70L
IIA          74    3385.8    192766        702     -          -       43S, 31L
IIB          20    663.88     57982        610     -         1U        8S, 12L
III          2       26.3      2411         0      -        2U             2L
Total          225  11743.98    553257      28667      -        3U      110S, 115L



Table 5: Indkatrs of Prqiect Implemntatin
SA: Technical Assistance and In-Country Traning
Activities                             Agency          Date        Cost (US$million)        Staff-month
StArt    Finish  Appraigal   Antnal  Appria*xl  Anhu
A. Implementation Support
Al. Design & Supervision of Phases 1&2A:   BIPRAN      Oct-90   Jun-94               18.01               6,359
(8 contracts, one per RBO)
A2. Design & Supervision of Phases 2B&3:   BIPRAN    Mar-93   Jun-95    18.00         5.05      6750      1,345
(8 contracts, one per RBO)
A3. Design & Supervision from Loan 2717-lNID  BIPRAN                    i             4.68
B. Institutional Capacity Building
Bl. Technical Support to DBMJRBO:          BIPRAN      Dec-90    Jun-94     7.20      11.53     1404      1,511
(3 contracts, one per Region)
B2. Technical Assistance to DGH
- Central Weight Bridge Unit           BIPRAN      Jun-91   Apr-93       .90      1.01       174       146
- Bipran Engineering Development       BIPRAN    May-92   Apr-94        1.60      1.33       243       435
- Feasibility Study on Toll Roads      J.Marga    Nov-90   Mar-92        .50       .95        60       178
- Toll road quality control & Maint. Mgt.  J.Marga  Dec-90   Sep-92     1.40      1.74       145        60
- T.A & Research Training Phase 11       IRE      May-91    Feb-93      1.60      1.73       198       192
- Planning and Programming Phase 11    BIPRAN      Feb-91   Dec-93      1.60      2.28       148       125
- Highway Capacity Manual Phase I      BINKOT    Dec-90   Dec-92         .90       .97       152       132
- Highway Capacity Manual Phase 11     BlNlOT    Mar-93    Jun-94                  .70                 132
- Spot Technology                      BIPRAN      Oct-94   Dec-94                 .07                  12
- Implementation Quality Improvement     IRE                            2.70                 292
- MIS Development                      Perintal                          .50                  86
- Technical Standards Development      BIPRAN                           1.60                 231
B3. Technical assistance to MOC
- Road Traffic Safety Improvement      DGLC        Jan-92                .70       .84        63        63
- Institutional Development            DGLC       May-91                1.40       .61       130        60
- Vehicle Weight and Dimension         DGLC        Mar-92               1.00       .79        82        82
C. In-Country Training
- Graduate training at rTB (S2 program)    BIPRAN    Nov-90   Aug-94    2.90      4.04       349       180
- Road Transport Operators Training    DGLC        Feb-93               1.20       .98       120       100
Totql                                 =                                4s.70     57 29    10627    11  11'
Table SB: Overseas Training
(Cost in US Dollars)
ProgrqmR              _                No Shlident       Totqtl trt          Per Shy&lact       Ppr Stn-Yr
1. DGH Fellowship Programs
- MSc in UK (4 batches)                     29            1,439,168             49,626              30,000
- Graduate in France ( 3 batches)           25            1,259,310             50,372              36,000
- Graduate in Canada (I batch)               4               93,113             23,278              25,000
11. MOC Fellowship Programs
- MSc in UK (2 batches)                      4              410025             102,506              48,000
- MSc in Australia ( I batch)                4               177990             44,498              25,000
Tntl                                   6i            3-179^fE                   :
Table 5C: EQUIPMENT
(Cost in US Dollars '000)
Th1rpRn                                        Agrny                          Appraigal            Ar.hiaL
1.  Road/Traffic Testing/Monitoring                BIPRAN, IRE, J.Marga            1,900               2068
11. Traffic Safety                                 DGLC                            2,100                 0
Im. MIS Implementation                             Perintal                          0                  250
IV. Laboratory and computer equipment                                                0                 2024
Titni iln4  A4 42



CIVIL WORKS (CONT'D)
Table 5F: Bridges Replacement
Region    Phase    No. of   Length    Actual      Cost    Earliest    Latest     Time
Packages   (km)      Cost    Overrun    Start      Finish    Overrun
West          I         18      3590      29535               33117      34060      2S, 16L
IIA       -         -         -         -          -         -
IIB           8      1026     7,698               Jan-93   May-94       7S,1L
HI        -        -          -         -         -         -
Subtotal        26      4616    37,233   113.2        -         -         9S, 17L
Central       I            14      3189    28,926   1 (10%)    Sep-90   May-93       2S,12L
IIA       -         -         -         -          -         -
IIB          2        230      2391     -         Jan-93    Apr-94        2S,
III          1        80       1847     -         Jul-94    Feb-95          S
Subtotal        17      3499    33,164   -376         -         -         5S, 12L
East          I            12      2203     23344  2 (30%)    Oct-90    Feb-93          12L
IIA       -         -         -         -          -         -
IIB       -         -         -         -         -          -
ill       -         -         -         -         -         -
Total         I           44       8982     81805               -          -        4S, 40L
IIA           0         0         0     -          -         -
IIB          10      1256     10089     -          -         -         8S, 2L
III          1         80      1847     -         -         -               S
Total           43      8115      70397    -262.8     -         -        13S, 42L
Legend
- Cost Overrun: "2(20%)" means two packages have experienced cost overruns averaging 20%.
- Latest Finish: "2U" means two packages are unfinished.
- Time Overrun: "S" means on/ahead of schedule; "L" means late



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators    Estimated                   Actual
A. Improve cost recovery    Both level and structure of  Improvements to RUC
(table 6A)                  road user charge (RUC) are    mostly on level. Effort on
rationalized.               structure is being pursued
under follow-on project.
B. Rationalize Budgetary    Priority for maintenance and    Balanced allocation of funds
allocation (Table 6B)       rehabilitation during period of  between road preservation
resource constraints.       and road extension during
period of funding increases
for the sector.
C. Reduce road transport    Condition of existing National  Condition has improved on a
costs by reducing vehicle   and Provincial road network    network which has increased
operating costs (Table 6C)  improved.                   substantially in length.
Table 6A- Road User Charges and Total Road Expenditures
(Rp Billion)
88/89   89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93    93/94     94/95
Charges a/
- Annual Vehicle
Registration Tax       258.7   285.5   312.1   373.6   496.1    566.5    620.0
- Vehicle Ownership
Transfer Tax           331.4   446.1   608.1   680.4   608.8   843.9    925.0
- Fuel Taxes
Diesel                 -820.7 -1,326.2 -2,001.0 -1,173.6  -469.0    46.0    412.0
Petrol                 589.3   423.3   293.8  1,128.9  1,271.0  2,477.0   3,163.
Total                    358.7  -171.3  -787.0  1,009.3  1,906.9  3,933.4   5,120.C
Expenditures b/        1,157.1  1,879.6  2,417.0  3,799.2  4,618.0  4,845.0
a/ Excluding Import Duties and VAT
b/ Excluding expenditures on Toll



Table 6B: Actual Expenditures for National and Provincial Roads
(in Rp billion)          89/90      90/91     91/92      92/93     93/94
Maintenance and Rehabilitation  313.0.     448.7      563.4     614.8      765.5
-  Routine maintenance           47.0       52.5       97.0     152.5       36.9
-  Periodic maintenance         155.0      348.8     466.4      431.1     640.9
-  Holdingtreatnent             111.0       11.4       0.0       31.2       87.7
Betterment                      558.0      650.7   1,140.4   1,412.8    1,406.7
-  Core                         558.0      650.7   1,140.4   1,036.8      973.9
-  Special                        0.0        0.0       0.0      376.0     432.8
Bridge Replacement & Materials  158.0      140.6     280.7      237.6     499.7
Upgrading/New Construction       20.0       78.8      157.0     290.8      337.4
Consultancy/Supervision         181.0      205.0     410.7      370.3      425.6
Grand Total                1,230.0    1,523.8   2,552.2   2,926.3   3,434.9
Table 6C: Evolution of Road Condition
% Good    % Fair    % Poor    % Bad          Total Nat. & Prov.
IRI <4    IRI 4-8   IRI 8-12  IRI > 12         %      Length (km)
1988        16         26         28         30         100        50,421
1990        30         28         22         20         100        52,567
1991        29         27         24         20         100        53,402
1992        31         29         20         20         100        53,168
1993        29         38          15         18        100        53,750
1994        22         45          14         19        100        62,607
Chart 6C: Trend of Network Lenght & Condition
70,000
60,000
5f 0,000 -.|*Fi
20,0 -     .  . .. . ..                  ..  .                  Good
10,000-
1988         1989      1990     1991      1992      1993      1994



Table 7: Studies/Technical Assistance included in Project
Purpose as defined at appraisal or
Study/TA         redefined                                   Status      Impact of Study
Substantial. IRMS can be considered as state-of-the-art in
road management systems, including capability of evaluating
1. Planning &    Refinement to planning and programming models,         road user cost benefits for minor widening and congestion
Programming      improvement to data collection, pilot feasibility      relief. Also a methodological manual for capacity expansion
Phase II         studies for road capacity expansion         Completed   was produced.
Moderate to substantial. Significant effort was diverted to
2. Bipran                                                                updating contract documents, and late mobilization did not
Engineering      Further development of technical and contractual        allow completion of the Construction Implementation Module
Development      policies and procedures                     Completed  in IRMS.
3. Implementation
Quality                                                                  Too lengthy procurement process: it was decided to transfer
Improvement      Mechanism for quality control and monitoring  Cancelled   this still much needed TA to follow-up HS2 project.
Completed
4. Highway       Develop manual and software appropriate to    Increased   Substantial. Indonesia has state-of-the-art manual adapted to
Capacity Manual  Indonesian roads characteristics            scope      local traffic and infrastructure (urban and interurban)
Since system was developed by DGH, the project provided
5. MIS           Improvement of MIS for DGH management       Completed  only office technology equipment. System is operational
Substantial. Loading patterns observed will serve as
6. Central       Improve pavement design and input to road user          benchmark to assess impact of new Road Transport Law.
Weighbridge Unit  taxation                                   Completed   However little interpretation was made of the results.
Continue past research in pavement behavior,           Research training was successful with 30% of IRE staff
7. IRE Research   materials inventory and mapping, geotechniques,        participation Road safety also showed good results in
Development      traffic safety & research training          Completed  implementation of accident recording procedures
8. IRE Technical
Standards        Consolidate results of past studies on materials,       Too lengthy procurement process: it was decided to transfer
Development      equipment and technology, unify standards   Cancelled   this sill much needed TA to follow-up HS2 project
9. Toll Roads                                                Completed
Management       Assistance to Jasa Marga for design, quality  Reduced    State-of-the-art system was developed, but implernentation
System           control, and maintenance system             scope       would require further assistance
10. Toll Roads   Assistance to Jasa Marga for proper assessment
Feasibility Study   of options                               Completed   Limited to one scheme (Malang-Gempol)
11. MOC
Institutional
Development      Restructuring and strenghtening DGLC        Completed   Partial. TA recommendations have yet to be implemented
Assistance to new traffic safety directorate in        Partial. Insufficient progress did not allow concrete actions on
12. Traffic Safety   DGLC                                   Completed   blacksports and procurement of specialized equipment
13. Vehicle Weight Improve road transport efficiency through better      Substantial. However pilot enforcement schemes were not
& Dimension Limits regulations & enforcement                 Completed  implemented.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate(US$M)       Actual/latest estimates(US$M)
Local     Foreign             Local      Foreign
Loan Financed Components          costs     costs     Total     costs       costs      Total
Road Rehabilitation/Betterment        62.1      79.1     141.2       74.9       95.3         170.2
Periodic Maintenance                 148.7    160.1      308.8      137.6       149.0        286.6
Bridge Replacement                    21.9      51.0      72.9       14.6       33.9          48.5
Subtotal                         232.7    290.2      522.9      227.1       278.2        505.3
Equipment
Road Traffic Safety                     .1       2.2       2.3        0.0        0.0           0.0
Quality Control and Research            .1       2.0       2.1        0.2        4. l          4.3
Subtotal                             .2      4.2       4.4        0.2         4.1          4.3
Consultancy Services
Implementation Support                18.2       9.7      27.8       25.6        13.7         39.3
Institutional Stregthening             3.6      14.5      18.2        2.6        10.4         12.9
In-Country Training                     .9       3.6       4.5        1.0        4.0           5.0
Subtotal                          22.7      27.8      50.5       29.2       28.1          57.3
Overseas Training                         .0       2.2       2.2        0.0        3.4           3.4
Total                                  255.6    324.4    580.0        256.5      313.8         570.3
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate(US$M)       Actual/latest estiniates(US$M)
Local     Foreign             Local      Foreign
Source              costs     costs     Total     costs      costs       Total
IBRD                                    25.6    324.4      350.0       22.1      317.9         340.0
GOI Contribution                       230.0       .0      230.0      230.3         .0         230.3
Total                                  255.6    324.4      580.0      252.4      317.9         570.3



Table 9: Economic Reevaluation
PROVINCE              PACKAGE               LINK             PHASE          LENGTH         TRAFFIC       TRAFFIC          VALLTE OF             IR
NUMIBER            NUMBER                              (krn)          1988          1994          CONTRACT               (%)
RpM)
D.1 ACEH                 H-301              024                PHASE III                 13.10          568           894               1,175.60            20
D.I ACEH                 K-1                008.1              PHASE I                   62.80          220          1041              14,740.24          30.3
SUMFUT                  K-030               035                PHASE IIB                 31.40          652           865               1,439.90          44.4
SUI.MUT                  H-302              072.2              PHASE rI1                 19.50          241           431               1,452.00          18.5
SUvMBAR                  H-303              014.3              PHASE III                 20.00          581           575                 935.69          20.6
RIAU                     K-22               017                PHASE I                   44.00          118           579              11,599.65          15.2
lAMBI                   K-033               018,019,020        PHASE IIB                 43 30                        664                 566.74          34.1
JAI%4BI                  H-306              031.3              PHASE III                 47.70          191           673               5,717.68           75
BEN(KULU                 H-18               011                PHASE I                   24.00                        813               1,070.00          29.1
BEN(KULU                 H-ISA              CII                 PHASE IIA                13.00         1227           813                 888.10          16.4
SUMSEL                  H-21                047                PHASE I                   14 60           75           390              11,023.61          31.2
SUMSEL                   K-010              030.1              PHASE I                   39.90          655           879               2,637.96          32.7
LAMPLTNG                 K-36               023K, 024          PHASE IIB                 38.90                       3,656                930.09          36.8
LAMPUNG                  H-29               059                PHASE I                    9.30                      16,511                325.10          89.5
LAMPUNG                  H-29A              059                PHASE IIA                 12.80          163         16.511                800.03         105.2
JABAR                    K-038              096                PHASE IIB                 18.40 1_                    6,043              2,032.00          57.6
JATENG                  K-40                096                PHASE IIB                 '3.00         2596          2,407              3,979.22          37.8
JATENG                  H-90                005                PHASE I                   33.21         9976         11,775              2,224.14         185.9
D IN                     H-101              008,027            PHASE I                   42.40                       1,872              4,114.00          10.8
D.].Y                    H-IOlA             008,               PHASE IIA                 30.30                        825               2,804.53           7.9
JATIM                   K-31                065                PHASE IIB                 31.37          659          1,204              2,786.56          21.5
IATIM                    H-105              041                PHASE I                   41.20         1383          8.722              3,224.32         116.8
KALTENG                  K-045              007.2              PHASE IIB                 40.10          429           416               2,815.33          12.2
KALTIM                   H-049              001                PHASE I                   25.00          485          1,053                781.45          25.3
KALSEL                   H-064              015                PHASE 1                   22.00          461          2,834              1,846.73           42
BALI                     H-221              029                PHASE IIB                 25.70          380           727               2,055 15          26.1
BALI                     H-128              005,006            PHASE I                   56.40                       7,067              5,750.15          85.2
N.T.B                    K-48               044                PHASE 11B                 15.00          626           321               3,797.82          21.8
N.T B                    H-134              034                PHASE 1                   17.90         1351          1,917              4,014.90          44.4
N T T                    H- 142             019                PHASE I                   27.00          165          1,046              3,826.00          36.9
N T.T                   H-142A              019                PHASE IIA                 25.00                       1,046              1,348.65          54.6
N.T.T                    K-24               007,010,011,012    PHASE I                   60.80                                          3,177.63            10
TIM'IM                   H-222              008                PHASE 110                 3220            55           743               3,147.54          46.7
SULUT                    H-143              001.1              PHASEI                    22.90         1072          1,910              2,548.00          17.1
SULUT                    H-143A             001.1              PHASE IIA                 14 00                       1,910              4,092.41          21.5
SULUTT                   K-25               027                PHASE I                   54.60         1251          1,324              1,843.71          74.3
SULSEL                   K-14               019                PHASE I                   32.20         1321          2,416              6,204.45          48.2
SULTRA                   H-232              007                PHASE IIB                 34.30          207           515               1,118.13          35.7
MALUKU                   H-175              036                PHASE I                   20.00           99           463               3,714.36          22.8
MALUKU                  K-21                021                PHASE 1                    710           207           702                 937.00          17.7



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original Revised
Agree-              Covenant  Present   Fulfill.   Fulfill.
ment   Section        type      status    Date       Date   Description of covenant              Cominents
Ln. No 3.02(a)             12 CP          Mar-98    Mar-93 Borrower to carry out project        Improved overall progress with the
3133                                 (Stagel)  (Stagel)   in accordance with                 implementation of the action
policy statement and               plan in all areas. Follow-up
implement related action           under stage 11 actio of HS 11.
plan.
3.02(b)            11 CD         Mar-90   Mar-91  By March 31, of 1990, 1991. and       Ist fonnal review carried out during
1992, borrower to review with      03/91 supervision mission for 1989 and
Mar-91    Mar-91  bank progress made during prior      1990 programs, and second formal
FY in implementation of action     review during 6/92 mission for 1991
Mar-92    Jun-92  plan and work prog. and budget.      programs. Reviews for following years
were made on a less formal basis.
3.02(c)            11 CD         Dec-89    Jul-90   By December of 1989 and             (i) Diaft 1990/93 and 1991/94 plan
1990 borrower to:                  furnished but unsatisfactory
Dec-90    Jan-91   (i)furnish to Bank draft rolled-    and had to be revised. In geiieral
over 3 year expenditure plan       through resources appear
inter-urban national and           allocated in accordance to
provincial roads, and (ii) there-   allocated in accordance
after issue plan taking Bank       with needs. Bank's
comments into account.             comments were taken into
3.02(d)            10 CP         Feb-90   Mar-90  By February 28, 1990 and              Criteria was only partially complied
1991, borrower to furnish to       with because uilnding of highway
Feb-91    Mar-91  Bank its work program anid           was much higher than expected and
budget for next FY prepared        programming/budgeting system
in accordaiice with agreed         suffered initial deticiencies particularly
criteria.                          in traffic data collection. After 1992.
1992. gradual improvem. were observed.
3.02(e)            10 C                             Borrower to make changes in         Adjustment in target dates
Action Plan, if necessary,         done with Bank mission's
consultation with Bank.            agreement.
3.03         11 C             -    -          Bank financed sub-projects          Satisfactory although quality of
to have a minimum rate of          uncenain for the first 2 years.
return of 15 %.
3.04         10 CP            -         -     Borrower to carry out               Only one scheme was reviews.
satisfactory feasibility study
for new toll road project.
Status: C = Covenant complied with; CD    Complied with after delay; CP = Complied with partially; NC = Not complied with
Covenant type
I= Account/Audits                                           2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3  flow and utilization of project funds                    4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency       6 = Environtmental covenants
7   Involuntary resettlement                                 8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting                        10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/ittstitutional action
13 = Other



Table 11: Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title             Description and Comment on Lack of
Compliance
No significant lack of compliance with
applicable Operation Manual Statements                        None
OD or OP/BP
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stages of Project Cycle        Actual Staffweek                   US$
Through Appraisal                       132.4                        270.7
Appraisal-effectiveness                 28.1                          65.6
Supervision                             153.2                        313.1
Completion                               10                            24
Total                                   323.7                        673.4



Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Specialized      Performance rating
Stages of           Monthl umber of SW in  staff skills Implementation Development                              Types of
project cycle         Year persons\l  field:  represented     status        impact                              problems
Through Appraisal  Nov-87       -       17  Hlwy. Eng.          -              -
Mar-89                   Economist
Appraisal           Jun-89      3        6   Hwy. Eng.          -              -
Economist
Supervision I       Dec-89      I        I   Hwy. EHg.          2              1      - Delays 2 to 3 months compared to estimated at appraisal.
Bina Marga overloaded by the start of several major projects
under ADB and Japan financing besides HSI.
- Change in 1989 of the Director General and Director of
BIPRAN
Supervision 11      Mar-90      3        3   Spec. Eng.         2              1      - Action Plan iniplementation experiencing slippage due to:
Economist                               (i) reorganization of MOC in mid-1989 resulting in delays in
procurement of consultancy services for MOC; (ii) heavy work
load of Bina Marga;(iii) delays in placing key staff in both Bina
Marga and MOC. Unsatisfactory 1989 road data collection.
Supervision III     Aug-90      3       2   Hwy. Eig.          2              1      - Action Plan: Only 12 of 29 actions expected by July 3, 1990
Economist                                were taken. Some weakness in monitoring of expenditures.
Superision IV       Jani-91     3       2    lwy. Etig.         2              1      Only 20 out of 4lactions expected by December 31, 1990 had
Economist                               been taken. Bina Marga used new Planning/ programming
system to prepare 1991/92 budget. But detailed analysis of
of priorities and constraints missing.
Supervision V       Mar-91     3         2    Hwy. Eng.         2              1       Road data survey; data quality auditing.
Econolmist
Supervision VI      Nov-91      3       4   Spec. Eng.          2              1      Action Plan: Only 26 out of 52 actions expected by Nov,1991
Econoismist                             were completed. Phase IIA & Phase IIB did not materialized
because of delays in the finalization of design reviews. Poor
quality of progress report.
Supervision VII      Jul-92     3       2   Hwy. Enig.          2              1      IRMS still weak in the reliability of data itsput and implement-
Economist                               ation monitorinng : e.g. delays in processing Phase IIA and IIB
civil works. Extension of closing date to complete subprojects.
Supervision VIII    Mal-93     3        2   Spec. Eng.          2              1      Action Plaii: Insufficient progress in tiser charges and
Economist                               completion of the Government regulation for Law 14/92.
Supervision LX      Nov-93      3        4   Spec. Eng.         2              1      Action Plan: Outstanding items from initial (stage D Action
Economist                               Pl'an (1990-93) to be incorporated in the stage H Action Plan
i1993-96) under IIS 11. A second one year extension required
to complete the civil works.
Sulper'.ision X     Jun-94      3       2   Spec. Eng.          S             S       Notable progress in all area.
Icorsoulrist
SupedVision Xl      Oct-94      3        2   Spec. Eng.         S             S       USS10 milliors uncommitted Lo be canceled from Loan Amount
Economist
Supervision XI]     Feb-95      3        1   Hwy. Eng.          S             S       No significant problem.
Ecorsoniist
Completion        May           1       0.5   Hwy. Eng.         S             S
\I Starting Irom second supervision missioni, two members from the resident mission office were generally included.






Part III - Borrower's Assessment
1.    Background
2.    Project Objects
3.    Project Achievements
4.    Bank Performance
5.    Borrower Performance
6.    Conclusion



Our Ref.  W) /B.9/1/1996  .Jakarta, 1E9Janulai  19A 
REPUBLIK INDONESIA
BADAN PERENCANAAN PEMBANGUNAN NASIONAL
JALAN TAMIAN SUROPATI 2, JAKARTA 10310
TELEPON: 336207-3905650
Otzir [Zef.    :     v)/B.9/1/1996           .Jalsarta, 19 Janua.ri 1.9')(
EncI.
M\11. Anutpaiii Khanina
Ciief Iinfrastrticture Operation Division
l ast Asia and Pasific Region
The XTorld Banik
I.ilS H Street N.W.
\Wishington DC 20433
U. S. A.
lRe      Highwav Sector Project ( Loan IBRD 3133-IND ), Goverment of Inilonlesii
Contribuitioni the Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
D)ear. Nlr. Khanniia,
\We have r eceivedl vour letter January 4, 1996 with thank of giving uS a time extentioni to fiiiil-
ize ouL contribtitioni to the ICR for the above project.
11% every effort. wve fiiialiv could meet the date of ICR submission that we have agreecl upon.
l-iiclosedl pliease find otir comimiienit and assesment to the above project.
We look forwvard to having your further cooperation
<2  ~  .,         XOUr sincerelv!
I - ,  SUiVONO DIKUN
ef  Bureaul for Comiiuitinicatioi
andl Transportationi, Bappenas
C.C
- I r. Banibang Bintoro, Deputy of Infrastrticttire Bappen as
- \I r. Soejonio, Director Genieral of Landl Comiiimuiicationis.
- .\ I. Soehiarsonio Nlartakimii, Director General of Highways.
- IRSI Jakarta
-. File



HIGHVWAY SECTOR PROJECT (Loan 3133-INID)
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM EORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. BACKGROIJND
The following sections have been prepared as part of the Borrower's contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Highway Sector Loan (HS1) in line with
the standard requirements of World Bank loans. The report has been prepared on behalf of the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the Ministry of Public Works and the Directorate
General of Land Communications (DGLC) of the Ministry of Communications (MOC). The
contribution was prepared after receipt of the Bank's draft version of the ICR and it is therefore
framed around comments on that draft. The Bank's draft ICR is considered on the whole to
provide a comprehensive and cogent review of the achievements of HS I and, while it is noted that
the project was rated overall as 'satisfactory', the Government accepts as fair most of the areas
of explicit or implied criticism; indeed, in some respects the criticism may be regarded as too mild.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The total value of the Highway Sector Project loan was US$350 million which was fully
disbursed over an extended loan period, except for a residual amount of US$10 million which had
to be cancelled.
The project had four main specific objectives:
1. To consolidate past improvements in formulation and implementation of highway sector
expenditures.
2. To institute improved policies on road use.
3. To strengthen institutions involved in sector.
4. To improve quality of road network by focusing on maintenance and
rehabilitation/betterment works.
DGH's main direct involvement was in the first and fourth objectives, i.e. works planning
and implementation; institutional strengthening (the third objective) concerned DGH mainly at
regional level through the TA for works preparation, design and supervision. DGH was not
directly involved in road use policies (objective two) and strengthening of DGLC, the main
concerns of the Ministry of Communications . While DGH fully supports the goals of policy
reform, particularly those reforms which will lead to a reduction in axle loading and hence longer
pavement life, it was a source of some frustration that the slow pace of reform under HS1 was
largely outside the control of DGH. It is acknowledged that the Policy Statement and associated
Action Plan (PSAP) provided a valuable framework for the rather general project goal of
'improving the efficiency of the road subsector', where the ultimate objective is minimisation of
total transport system costs. However, the PSAP focused largely on the policy reform issues and



- 2 -
at times these tended to distract too much attention away from the civil works component. From
the DGH perspective the civil works remained the key feature of the project and, indeed,
accounted for over 80 percent of loan expenditure. At the time of project formulation Indonesia
was facing a period of particular fiscal constraint and the loan was seen as crucial to sustaining the
pace of improvement and maintenance of national infrastructure; a more relaxed fiscal
environment emerged only later.
3. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
3.1 General
This was the first sector loan for highways and, as the ICR points out, the project was
both complex and demanding. Thus it is creditable that it achieved many of its objectives
satisfactorily. Perhaps inevitably, because it was the first,  there were deficiencies in both
formulation and execution of the project, many of which are being remedied in the successor
project (Second Highway Sector Investment Project - HS2). In spite of a lengthy preparation lead
time of two years, there were still aspects of the HSI project where, with hindsight, preparation
was inadequate, for example as revealed in the major design revisions needed for most phase I
works, the delays in consultant procurement and the initial lack of clarity in the DBM-TAC
consultant role.
The loan period had to be extended twice from three years to over five years, largely as a
consequence of initial deficiencies and delays. While this may be interpreted as a criticism of
project execution, the slower rate of disbursement no doubt ensured a higher quality of outcome.
It also meant there was more time to achieve some of the sectoral policy reform goals where
progress initially was very slow. On the other hand, the extended implementation period required
a higher than anticipated expenditure on design and supervision TA. The original formulation of
the project within a very tight three year timetable was probably never a realistic proposition,
given the size and complexity of the project and the typical disbursement period of seven years in
previous highway loans. The HS2 project, which is of a similar size and scope, allows for
disbursement over a period of 5.5 years.
3.2 Sectoral Policy Reform
Of the seven areas of sectoral policy reform, DGH is directly concerned with two: those
relating to the integration of broad transport policy and planning; and to the more specific
planning, programming and execution of roadworks.
As regards the broader objective, development of intermodal integration and inter-
ministry liaison, the specific studies (O/ID survey, LTDP-II) were handled by MOC. However,
DGH has subsequently made use of the findings of these studies, especially the O/D survey data,
in recent  road sector studies.  The Government intends to ensure that there is increased
interaction and co-operation on policy and planning matters between the two ministries. In the
short term the recent reorganisation of DGH has complicated matters, though it should ultimately
stimulate more interaction, especially when MOC is reorganised on more effective modal lines,



- 3 -
which now only awaits Menpan approval. It is intended to revitalise the inter-agency Working
Group which was set up to oversee the revision of the Action Plan in 1993.
The project achieved substantial success in consolidating the earlier initiatives to improve
the system of planning and programming of roadworks. The concept has taken root of using a 3
year rolling plan to identify subprojects for implementation, selected through rational economic
criteria within defined budgetary constraints. IRMS may be regarded, in the Bank's own words,
as 'almost unique amongst systems in the world in that it applies a coherent economic approach to
selection and timing of pavement treatments throughout the process from network-level planning
to individual project design across two tiers of authority'. IRMS was developed in important
ways and disseminated for regional use with the support of two TA contracts funded under HS2
(PP2 and BED). The system is now in principle the basis for selection of most works subprojects
for national/provincial roads.  However, it is recognised that IRMS must evolve, including
integration with systems for other road classes, and it still requires improvements: hence the
need for further TA assistance in this area under HS2.
While some good quality survey data were collected for IRMS under the supervision of
the DBM-TAC, GOI is aware that data quality generally remains a major problem which has not
yet been resolved in a sustainable way. However sophisticated the system, its output will have
little value if the information it uses is incorrect.  Automated data collection systems to be
operated under HS2 should contribute to a resolution of this problem.
The BED  assignment was intended to cover, inter alia,  the  development of the
Construction Implementation Module (CIM), the missing module in IRMS relating to monitoring
of construction . However, the services started late and did not fully meet their objectives; the
work will now be completed under HS2.
IRE and Jasa Marga were entirely responsible for the technical studies assigned to them
under HSI. Output from IRE research studies in general is of value to the development of
DGH's technical capacity in planning, design and implementation.  The Highway Capacity
Manuals, in particular, will be vital, given the increasing emphasis on expenditures to relieve
congested road sections. In respect of Jasa Marga, however, DGH considers that there is a need
for closer coordination of activity than is presently being achieved.
Continued support for the Central Axle Load Survey Unit has allowed better estimates to
be formed of the extent of truck overloading on strategic roads.
DGH supported DGLC in the other areas of sectoral reform for which MOC is primarily
responsible. It is acknowledged that progress was slower than hoped, but nevertheless 80% of the
required Action Plan steps had been taken by early 1994. There were notable achievements: for
example, net revenue from vehicle taxes and motor fuels, the main elements of road user charges,
increased from less than Rp 400 billion in 1988/89 to over Rp 5,000 billion in 1994/95, reaching
the level required for total cost recovery of road expenditures by the end of the period. Further
studies of road user taxation are being supported by advisory services under HS2.



-4-
3.3 Institutional Development
Much of the institutional thrust of the project was oriented towards MOC, including
decentralisation of the DLLAJ units which is now making some progress. Apart from the
technical studies under specific TAs referred to above, the project aimed to address the
institutional development needs of DGH through training programs and  the DBM-TAC
component, together with associated implementation support.
Final expenditure on Technical Assistance (TA) including training amounted to 11
percent of the total project works costs under HS1. Direct implementation support alone
accounted for 7.7 percent, compared with an initial estimate of 5.5 percent. The Government
acknowledges that these are relatively high figures, given the comparative maturity of the sector,
but reiterates the points made in the ICR in respect of the inevitably costly requirements to
support decentralisation policy,  extend assistance also to non-project works and develop
sustainable implementation systems. The TA cost overrun was the direct result of  delays in
adequate Phase I works preparation, which in turn were partly attributable to the late mobilisation
of the DBM-TAC consultants, 6-9 months after the Phase I projects started.
The initial effectiveness of the DBM-TAC was reduced, not only by late mobilisation,
but by a lack of clarity in their intended role . In the first two years of their assignment too much
time was spent on office work and IRMS-related activities and too little on direct support of the
design and supervision process. They were also insufficiently staffed and structured to carry out
the role expected of them Although, this was recognised at an early stage, it took a further 18
months to revise their Terms of Reference through an Addendum which allowed redefinition of
their role as a 'core team' with more effective operation through the RBOs in the last 15 months
or so of their extended services. This was clearly an area where project formulation was deficient
and there was an unacceptable delay in rectifying the problem. However, the lessons learnt in
HS 1 have been applied in HS2 to ensure better utilisation of the comparable TA component. The
implementation TA contracts under HS2 were awarded on schedule. There remains, however, a
problem in inculcating a strong sense of project 'ownership' at provincial level which can still set
limnits on the effectiveness of TA operations.
Most training programs have long-term objectives and it may be unrealistic to expect to
see much immediate impact from the project training component - a timelag is unavoidable. The
growth in numbers of Bina Marga staff holding a Masters Degree has increased steadily during
the 1980s. Under the project the Bina Marga Highway Engineering and Development Masters
Program at the Institute of Technology (ITB) was continued. As a result, 104 staff obtained the
award through full-time study at ITB. Under the split programme introduced in 1989/90, a further
29 staff obtained overseas Masters Degree awards from UK Universities after completing the first
year of study at ITB. Under the full overseas Masters Program funded from various sources
including the project, some 63 obtained awards over the project period. These programs will be
continued under the National Provincial Roads Master Training Plan (NRMTP), soon to be
implemented under HS2. One main task under the NRMTP is to conduct an assessment of the
above programs to ensure that they continue to meet the present and future needs of Bina Marga



- 5 -
professional staff. Similarly, human resource development programmes within MOC continue to
be supported.
The Government acknowledges that there are on-job training opportunities for both
central and local government staff offered by TA assignments which are in effect lost. This in
part reflects the heavy executive and administrative burden placed on many Bina Marga staff
(including that for contract procurement and monitoring) that prevents them from gaining
experience from more direct participation in technical studies.
3.4 Civil Works
By the revised loan closing date target expenditure on civil works under the project had
been achieved (slightly exceeded in Rupiah terms and slightly undershot in US dollar terms).
Furthermore, DGH data show that during Repelita V, which was roughly coincident with the HS 1
project, the length of the national/provincial network in good and fair roughness condition (less
than 8m,/km IRI) improved substantially, even though there was a 10 percent increase in the
network . The main issues in evaluation of HS 1 project performance relate to the extended period
of implementation and the quality of works.
The project works were intended to be implemented in three annual phases, but actual
works took place in four irregular phases over six years. Provision was made in the loan for
retroactive financing of up to $35 million between April 1989 and February 1990 when the loan
became effective, although in practice the earliest works start date was March 1990. The DBM-
TAC implementation support contracts were not signed until the end of 1990, although the local
supervision consultants (LSDC) were mobilised earlier. The design reviews at contract stage for
the Phase I projects revealed that most projects required substantial changes and redesign, leading
to large addenda. The redesign process was hampered by the late mobilisation of support
consultants and the lengthy process of approval of design changes by the RBO. the Ditpels and
Bipran. It was appropriate that the Bank was fairly strict in requiring proper justification for large
change orders in order to set the first sector loan on the right track, but this also led to delays. In
the event, Phase I was confined to the highest priority works with original contract addenda
limited to 30% where the contractor was good and extra work was justified. Other Phase I works,
requiring larger changes and where the original contractor was poor, were let as new contracts in
Phase IIA, where they could be economically justified. Subsequent phases were smaller in scope
and encountered fewer problems in design review.
Clearly the experience of Phase I constituted an important learning process for all
concerned which led to a later improvement in performance at the cost of earlier delays. It should
be noted that, once contracts were let and the design review process complete, actual works
implementation generally proceeded on schedule. However, the Government recognises there is
no room for complacency, as delays in works contract procurement remain a problem under HS2.
DGH stands by its 'fast track' design philosophy as a practical and cost effective approach to
project preparation, but it also recognises that the design review process during mobilisation
needs stricter control to be effective.



- 6 -
The Government acknowledges that there is still a shortage of systematic, quantified
information on the quality of works. It is unfortunate that it was not possible to address this issue
under HSI, as intended, through the proposed  technical assistance for Implementation of
Quality  Improvement (IQI) under DGH  and the Technical Standards Development and
Monitoring (TSDM) under IRE. These had to be postponed to HS2 because of procurement
problems. The IRE component has now been awarded and the DGH component is presently being
tendered. It is the firm intention of DGH to remedy this deficiency under HS2 with the
establishment of a Quality Assurance Unit early in 1996.
The absence of a comprehensive technical audit and quality monitoring system to date of
course does not mean necessarily that works quality is seriously deficient. The Government values
the evidence provided by independent spot field assessments undertaken by the various Bank
missions in this respect, even though they are necessarily limited in geographical scope and
coverage. While these have often concluded that quality could be better, cases of severe
deficiency appear to be exceptional. The DBM-TAC final reports identify many problems of
works quality, but generally conclude that there was an improvement in the standard of road
construction during the period of their services: particular attention is drawn to an increased
awareness among all site construction team members of the importance of materials quality
testing.
As regards contractor prequalification, weaknesses have been addressed in HS2, and
much improved and tighter procedures are to be used for Phase III of HS2.
Some continuing unevenness in regional performance is difficult to avoid, given the great
diversity of geographical and economic circumstances across the country. The Eastern Region, in
particular, remains disadvantaged, not only in its less developed infrastructure, but in its weaker
contractor capability and in the difficulty of attracting and retaining qualified management staff.
3.5 Economic Reevaluation
As a contribution to the ICR, DGH carried out an ex-post evaluation of a representative
sample of 15% of the HSI subprojects by value, using actual contract values (including actual
supervision costs) and updated traffic data. The results are reported in the Bank's section of the
ICR. The aggregate ERR of the sample program was about 30%, well above the required 15%
threshold. About 10% of the individual subprojects had ERRs below 15%, but this is still more or
less consistent with the stipulation in the loan that such subprojects will not exceed 20% of the
non-maintenance expenditures in the programme. The subprojects with low ERRs are mostly
from Phase I and IIA where redesigns required some major cost additions.
The ICR's conclusion that quality deficiencies might have reduced the global project ERR
from 30% to 20% seems a little harsh, compared with the estimate reported for HS2 preparation
of a one tenth reduction in ERR if quality goals are not achieved.



-7 -
4. BANK PERFORMANCE
An intensive level of Bank supervision was required because the loan was the first of a
sector type and was complex in its scope and coverage. Government staff recognise the value of
a disciplined framework of regular progress reviews, accompanied by short-term action plans and
task lists. Even though the approach may seem bureaucratic at times, it injects a vital element of
dynamism into more traditional work practices.
However, some problems arise from the periodic nature of Bank supervision,
characterised by short bursts of intensive activity succeeded by long periods of comparative
inattention. During the short mission periods, it is often impracticable for all the relevant
government staff to be involved, attempts are made to address too many issues simultaneously
and communication problems arise. The apparent understandings laid out in often lengthy and
linguistically complex mission Aide Memoires are not always fully grasped by government staff.
Bank contact between missions is usually limited and apparent inaction by the time of the next
mission may then be a source of mutual frustration. While it is appreciated that most Bank staff
have a very heavy workload, means of spreading out the supervision effort more evenly over time
might be considered, perhaps involving RSI staff to a greater extent, as a way of improving
future project performance.
5. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The Government notes that the Bank views the borrower's performance as generally
satisfactory, but found its management uneven in the implementation stage with insufficient
coordination between the design and implementation side within DGH, lengthy and sometimes
deficient procurement practices for consultant services, and weak performance in monitoring and
reporting. The Government wishes to make the following observations.
Following a long period of debate, DGH has recently completed a restructuring of its
organisation which will influence its management performance in the longer term. However, this
restructuring may have led to some short-term unevenness in management in the transitional
period coinciding with the latter part of the HS I loan.
Decentralisation of management functions to appropriate administrative levels is a key
objective of government policy. Again, while it is expected that this will lead to more responsive
management in the longer term, in the shorter term some transitional inefficiencies in the
management process may be unavoidable.
The HS I project comprised 13 separate TA assignments, each with different requirements
and some comprising multiple contracts (such as the DBM-TAC split into three regions). Their
total value was close to US$60 mn. All except two contracts were awarded, but there were
significant and in some instances harmful processing delays. The effort required to process the
procurement of these contracts simultaneously was very substantial and clearly exceeded the
staff capacity available. The multiplicity of TA assignments may also suggest that projects tend to
be allowed to become too ambitious and over-complex at formulation stage. Evidently, more



- 8 -
attention should be paid in future to identifying and monitoring a detailed and realistic timetable
for consultancy procurement when a project requires many contracts to be handled concurrently.
The progress charts attached to the HS2 Aide Memoires are useful in this context. The recent
changes in procedures for negotiation of certain types of consultancy contracts simplify the
process and should help to reduce procurement times in future.
Formal reporting and monitoring remain areas of particular weakness on which the Bank
has commented many times. The Government adrnits to a continuing need for more general
assistance at central level in these areas and would welcome the Bank's advice on how the
problem might be tackled more effectively in future.
6. CONCLUSIONS
The main questions for the borrower should be whether the project loan has provided
good value for money, whether it has led to improvements that would not otherwise have
occurred and whether these improvements are sustainable.
In strict accounting terms the economic reevaluation suggests that the bulk of the loan
funds invested in road betterment and maintenance yielded a sound return, well in excess of the
minimum acceptable threshold of 15%. Even though fiscal restraint loosened during the term of
the loan, the project allowed the Government to allocate more resources to infrastructure than it
could have done without the loan to support the high rate of national economic growth.
Although difficult to measure objectively, the quality of works supported by the project
was likely to have been higher than would otherwise have been the case, both because of the
greater attention directed towards design review and because of the substantial investment in TA
for implementation support. However, use of the latter was not fully effective because of delays in
procurement and a failure to define consultants' roles clearly from the outset.
The project has been valuable in pushing forward crucial road transport policy reform.
Even though the original policy agenda was perhaps, with hindsight, set too wide and progress
has been slower than hoped, some substantive steps have been achieved in establishing a clear
legal framework, raising road user charges and limiting axle loads. Within the road planning
process, tangible advances have been achieved in consolidating rational subproject selection
procedures and disseminating them to decentralised levels.
The ICR's judgement that improvements achieved under the project are sustainable, given
the further support of the follow-on project (HS2), seems valid. The test will be whether
improvements can be sustained without support beyond HS2.
As regards the Bank's requirement for a formal 'plan of future operation', it is considered
that this is adequately fulfilled by the combined contributions of the framework of Repelita VI,
the established system of rolling 3 year expenditure plans and the successor HS2 project.



- 9 -
The main lessons of HS1 are that time spent in details of project formulation is not
wasted. The temptation to make projects too complex should be resisted. During formulation the
need for each proposed project component should be tested rigorously to ensure that both Bank
and Government staff are fully convinced of its priority for inclusion. Otherwise, weaknesses in
preparation, delays in procurement and inadequate monitoring during implementation are likely to
result, while the attention of scarce management capacity may be distracted from core activities.






IBRD 25056
1000 -oo                  .          V    ,RUN.                      -,           -?HLUPPINES
r\ .-t,MALASIA r 
Banda Acehs                                                                                  --      KAA    A
/ ,Kruengroya D I ACEH                                                                       .        SINGA         
1KALJAN 5 _'   IAI,ATAN1.
5. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-IRIA?'J A A
ulanow  eA  ,Kula-lngso                                                                                                I N  D O  N  E S I A
&ALI~ ~~TI
Meub b OLamie  )rd- p                     \                              A       0-n#          t JAWA        (                  O- AUSTRAUA
dr    TraNoe<        xa     ng n       i                -          .I
Toproktucm                                                                                                     105'mErng   erz)
Karob                 Propat   sitXu o n4   bola      M A   LAY  SI A
Bau00ak utu                       k~~2t      i    o~~p
Sinabung           Singkil c Sngrong     g         poo                         i
SULMApTERA -  I   t                                 D                 , -SINGAPORE
-CJJTARA                   A g                                SePkling s.               s
Afulu a             Padoug ngs 'dani tn
jaS Te      &nugsitli                  0ibu Pay              oniraisaams~
Nias                  -        Jembetonro                -o janr  mj   I                                      -ohnjungpinang
Telukdalam Natal C'            Pv                          R
Airbang'(       1W  knikop  RarUi 7 ra
0                                                    PSosak-         oni tt yokuruh         A   olek   Tenmbohhrn
itng,Ttkkuonton            C
IN  D  IA  NI                                                 ulut,SflY   CI Rengot ;                                                     Java   Sea
C  C  EA  N                                        ubukolbo       ,        It is bul    ka                    KuaIaTung,l
Padanr   -ubkukselosilr -obabu  -. .      Merl1uTn
Pal    Godang~  -.Koai    SP ua                5sk kondis    Ban gka
Siberut f                                       ,                        .1g6                               J.d  -  U. Gudong
SUJMATERA                   ,Muoounor
BARAT               -                                             r, ra          "' Pal sepu -ub  oSungai Uar
IA ndropura5   <Lemunr. PKe Ban            o k     1f0
*LSaka\     empul   K,K                                            gn  'RPangkalpinang
Kelenongc-          our   Sekayu      ngkolanblqi        Lmrpur
lpuh ~ I              a      sPalmbng                                             B6ddu' 60
INDONESIA                                                ASgQkmon                                           Iauo          Ta6ho    '   Lampwror t ng
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL  BENGKKULU Kk    P                                                                                        Koyuogung SEMATERA BelitNng
ROAD NE1WORK                                                                              ,I                 oturo Pamalang
SUMATERA                                                                  Manna  -4ar
National Highways                                              PKnangrna          0 [                             n Mringgar
Province Roads                                                                   TanjLugkdn         > 9o  Ke
H-                Railroads                                IAMPVNG
Cities and Towns
'3    Province Capitals                                                                                                         JAWA
Rivers
- -- -. --~-    Province Boundaries
- - - -   International Boundaries
Th&s map has been praparud by Th World Bank's stff exclujively for the con_ ience
0          100          200         300         400 KILOMETERS                          of the i rsn   and is forthe intenal use a The World Bank Grup. The deminabions
used and the boundari& shawn on ihis map do not impl, on die part af The Woadd
I        I         I         I         I 1       I                           Bank Gmvup, ary iudgment on the legal sbtus of any territory or any endorsement or
o                  100                200                 300 MILES                    acceptnceofsus boundaries
.5                                                            I100                                                                1 05A
AUGUST 1 993






IBRD 25057
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
JAWA
Toll Roads                       Cities and Towns
Ja  v a                          S     e a                                                                    National HigHways        S      Province Capitals
%Vk5      0D.K.L.JAKARTA               .                                                                                                                                                 -       Province Roads                  Rivers
--    APSES   30'1"                                                                                                                                                    _____-  Railroads                 - -RProvince Boundcries
Sec-ng  'wkgroog=o selzish   -                                                                                                                                   -  -    International Boundaries
S--              -                 Cal      Sn          -
~~~~~'M  :AA                       *-         c'h.ljaaa   9_a'                                                                                 .Ca              ; -  
90@ ocCr mbl>-l'RtG t    ;         olno.'JW TIAR  N MDUR
UlqJrsg.eg _ ___                         yoS: N mgong    Sob6roro LAo9 - 9t   >*Xx                                     t-    zm*Gs23'-
C ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3R~~~~~~~~~_unN Ef -                                                                SEo RALs0    .. 
k,r.;COo.anq -cSa *a"L'0a5                                                   OIr.gaO -__ __    -                                                                                               - r _AAY
' .  , .: .. -:'   -u    /* -                         _' .hnga h_M L-                                                                      qrwo Ih p7A                       YI.m'qKC         Soqoo                 Swn'ep _y  l c
-    .     I N D O  cpaNgE5o S I A .-" *- E_nsru4wfI*v wo
S~~g.mn-  P- b"'  Nl~~~~~~~~~--C--                                                      -#.'Q    FMnS.                   ek~~MADURA
a                                                        WanapabaC~~~~~~~~~~~~  Soloong ~qR~  .7JAWVA  TIMUJR 
__. s . - - _ r i _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUSTAUA.                                                                                 Co-a.d3      '  -*'                            oiP2 8o,1iO1
Apl    . .0
OP-'.1,  bc.p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P'da .',jaa 
D.I. YOGYAKARTA'~1~.'~~_.                                                                          ~'YBL
7',  "UPPINES~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                       .,aeav-                            P&JGnqu~  Srr~)oL
BRLJNBP''at
MA LASIA
I C   N E S I A                  F d.'ao'd 60twap rada d Th.wW.-Id.k G-w N Thdapoapc
oadaaahau,&r,n              1013'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                0       0     6   AIE
AjGU,ST .0






IBRD 25058
_   _       _    PHILIPtINES                                 15-                                                                        120                                                                      12S
BRUNEV     -                          -cc1/ c Cceo-                                                                                                                            | INDONESIA
MALASlA             5-
MALASiA --' - _  -               BRUNEI   I                                                                             NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NErWORK
-s  -                                                                   QALEMAN,AN  - --_  ( -- ~--.  ~-,   -   N - j |                                                   KAIJMANTAN  AND SULAWESI
SUL41)m'                                               \ 
.-  _         ..  .     . _ IRIANWArA          >           L    
sv_ Geo   _   ~~_   -   {1   >    J            y                       o_                                                                           Nationd Highways
JAWA  __   u@-- -          ~ -  . r >                 5          _                 /                             _ _                                                                -       Prcwince Roads
/  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             -----Local Roads
- }                                                                                                      r zJMoR    -XSTRAH   _ -- j  . -  Cifies and Tawns
l 10  _./  /                                                                                        T      Province Capitals
_                                                          _ -              -~-                                                                  Rivers
MALAYSIAung#lor   -                                                                                   . . -   -   Province Boundaries
M    A    L A  Y  S  I A             j!- -                                                                                                              neaiioBudre
/                                                                                                       -^-    Intemafional Boundaries
Mer-ocu    -   '   \-_ r           /, 3    r.A     :'.1s_NAIv   rZ.    [  Telua ooy>/  |  \PTfl-grec6p\
_' -  . '                           .                   \  ;  2               '                       Td.MoT oy W'
-  ~~~~~~rA                                                                                                                                                           U6T'.pv 
i,~ Se,o
'A                                                                                        r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~SL.~AWE5i L, TAZAT
/                           ---n, /Biioo9CnocomnLiPsicu-                         _..                                    \     .t -            -                                         .  _NM   Koo~ngoon  Odid  S  N
\.. \-0----                                                                                                    - -/  .- /   , ~   !    .`,
cB.n#oyoog 'N.. -  Nogon,e,vNo
TAPAA- oroXpK g       IOMA  TA O;.ocngof blu -j  T - cmb-Krs                       -_
\ KsonUoyonJ                  iKlbr                              uucho             Dm:Drw                -          - TnJo79                   ,di\~id
Bont,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
NS.doi -                                        1w- -
S,duk~ Bebt                                                                                                       r nboW r -p r  -  BoKoung
NonLoh  Jolo  Propg 3unhk c   ,    ron,O                                      \                                                                                 oP
PANAI~~~\    Toyo~~~-~~O              KA  L/IM   ANT AN                        -Ko
RKucSburu        do-              P.r.kc.1 ,       or,  Dmort Tmowng_omrogi
.-   .        - -                 -'                            LoogoJon * SAMASINA cNDA T                        T
Tcq=c ,r Brnoct Mqer ?ondon
--p  Bk -  /   SOrpoi
S.UNGiPAD, i anB-.  ,  -
z m pi  -l   o v X ond goh   [-                                                  Anpo                                                               K   0   2030   i   br                          _     PprW
S,d.k                                                                                                                     K.-~~~~~~~~~~~B~tk j  .orty
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l dGou rh1Bmng,
IoYoP                                                                   Doy.           'QT 8no
K."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q                                                                            I.tu                                                             ---- --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGSTI9
gto9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W.            AlNG AAP   A  KU&           n                       SUL A  W  E S I   K.oU&. 
/K.m,  S-d.~~~~~~~  .-'P,"'p,                                                                - 
- PokoIon~n          Bo~~o~To~rooK-   Bon         S-9,  morkOo
-  ~  ~         ~         uiongosou-    Boliroc~0- ~Ao-   otnli,boAnbw -bg                           -.     Ncn,o
Bob Bohi   Arone       ~  SbI,nBn
T -.,,            Bo?j         w,                                                                                         i KENDA
J A      VA       S E   A                                                              Pongl-jo
ULNGRAND" ~     ~         ~        ~        or, 
Su.gg-                                  W=~~~~~~~~~~- -b<BoS,7
n~obOOneon,Aoo~doe~*orA.pono/SO  ~               WLES
~~g~~odo~~ o~~~yo ~~ .odon,n.,~~~~~~o,  0  50  icto  150  200        250        ~         ~        ~        20'125
AUGUST 199






l8RD 25059R
15  '5  X                                                                          ,22           w-                 -       -5
A__SUSTAA
124
- 725      S eo
a   4biui                                   Penls;q                      ,                     K                          Flores                     aolpnbio_   9ngs      *                   sobban. e
lz~~~~~~~~~~ -?d ~ ~  ~        ~        ' 5e
- -mb :r   K e c 'K A   3 i d <  d  ' ,,  ' 9   4 g u  m   W   T d o         t- -
Pulau Lomboak                           Pu/au Sumbawa              -_
T;mor         w       :7--
NUSA   TENCGARA   TIMUR                                                  5       oba          \
aoes&.A.  Lwss,o           --_
-   tuyb ng        _                 Sowu        Sea                                                       k,
Sumba
1ar/~'9 -7Sb/-- oTIMOR T7MUR
INDONESIA                                                                                                                                    T
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK                                                                                           P. Soawu                                 r s-s4'-
NUSA TENGGARA AND TIMOR                                                                                            ,TnTor
-      National Highways                                                                                                             -as  a
Province Roads                                                                                                                 ams-  P. Roti
Cities and Towns
-     Province Capitals
--    Rivers
-   Povince Boundaries                                      1                   200                  300 KILOMERS
*-- -   IInternational Boundaries           0                                00o                             200 MILES
-12                    INDIAN          OCEAN                                                                                                                                            bst &e.d,_    =                             ,27-
_a        IX                                            '22                                             12'






IBRD 25060
125                                                          25                                                           I:                                                          145
Morotai                                                                                              INDONESIA
orabo- 2Sarebare                                                               NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
Utaro                                      Lap Terbong                                                                                           IRIAN JAYA AND MA[UKU
- Tobelo
,      rGV1                                                                                                                         National Highways
J- jac :i,    Halmaherc                                                                                                        Province Roads
D4~a.ngo~. --                                                                                                          Cities and Toawns
-~~~           ~boneqo
Sobonego --' =         .-'                                                                                            Province Capitals
--            - .           - :-           .~                                                                                    ---    Rivers
-< wPoyohe, d  WaigeO                                                                                             - - -    Province Boundaries
-   - --- _.International Boundaries
LobrJrrO-: =-  .               /~~ -5 Biak
- obarngu                                         ,Mokbun       _       F . - uManokworar       arodt J_Koremr
_   Sula                    06s --                  |                         ,Temioboc                Rans,kj           '        _ Anz6    Mu )-h.n
rww   /sw A ;. U K U   \ -Mlso I                                                    __         _ m   _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sorm    -6
Atisool                                                                                                  <
pa~~~~~~~~~~a  ~~~~~~~                                                   ~~45~~~~~~~~oen-vJ                                                 p'
Cercm Sec                                                                                          C-- -2> GnmoLJAYAPURA
__ _  -  ivchoi  Fck F k  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Y Ycb;. K-m1,. Sow~
A,rbroya   Ponrolgi           H nir e    t-    '                      Saran      cr
- ^ DNomieo lok: ~~~~~~ \ , ~~~ NCD Krea9                                                                                 <enil Caore _- -----|
Bvu-Mace          --E  tAMCO        5b<i eron   c,  y                                                               s- _on                       Penram,d  Waren
Buru,                                                                                                         iur
6cnds   Sea                                                         Kai -AD  -erM
G,        lc         200        300        AD ISLOMETERS                                               Domcr                                                                                       W0r09k5.      Z
Aru                                                                           , m  .
LW               200               300 MILES                                                                                                                                             f      o
-w-hromrh P,b_ b    OWad AaL, maaae   ,sa,.ac
Sedr   ct ad.rn Li at ,P Wal br ur  Pa dronmnTh ac.n                                                                                                                                                            z
rn.adacaan.rsmraranzerdra.ar rarelPwcM    _                --                                                                                                                                -D
z wean-an                                     -                                 n a--                                                                                    _       - -                j
1-Tanimbcr
~~ beWlEr ~~~~~~~~~ pHlLmNEs                               ,~~~~~~~~~~~Solimmak,                                                                                            Mtnj 
MAI    h ,,                                                                                                    A rES I A       Se                                      Mri
NE5 IA
- ' A.U' -_ASTRALA                  130                                                          135                                                            40
AUGUST 1993









IMAGING
Report No:       15253
Type: ICR



